Title: CREPES SUZETTE FROM RON' PLAICE IN BLACKPOOL:)
Categories: Desserts
Yield: 1 Servings
4 7/16 oz Flour
1 7/16 oz Sugar, icing/confectioners
1/2    Lemon, rind, grated
2    Egg yolks
1    Egg whole
1/2 c  Milk
1/2 c  Cream, single
1 3/4 oz Butter
Butter for cooking
3    Oranges
1    Lemon
1 1/16 oz Sugar, regular kind:)
2 2/3 tb Grand Marnier or similar
1/4 c  Brandy
10    Sugar lumps
This dish, above all others, evokes that French 'feeling' in foreign
restaurants.  Easy to cook once you get the batter just right. The
Grand Marnier can be substituted with any suitable orange flavored
liqueur. Delicious made with Southern Comfort. An 'adult' dessert for
a special occasion.  Bon appetite mon cherie! From Ron's Plaice in
Blackpool for a sweet lady in the USA ;-)

The Crepe: [Pancake] Mix the flour with the icing/confectioner sugar
and grated rind of half a lemon in a bowl. Beat the egg yolks and egg
with the milk and cream, and stir into the flour. Beat all to a
smooth batter. Melt the butter and stir into batter mix. Cook in a
very hot pan with a little of the butter for cooking. Each crepe
should be very thin and about 6 inches across. Keep hot!

The Sauce: Wash and dry the oranges and lemons. Rub the sugar lumps
over the rind to extract the wonderful aromatic oils. [I can almost
smell it from here:)] Squeeze the fruits to extract the juice.  Heat
some butter in a large pan,add the sugar lumps and sugar [regular
type as used in coffee]. Once melted, add the orange and lemon juice,
and cook for a few minutes. While stirring, add the Grand Marnier.
Heat the crepes, one by one in the sauce,turning several times;
almost all the sauce should be absorbed by the crepes.  Roll up all
crepes and return to the pan. Warm the brandy, pour it over the
crepes in the pan, set it alight 'Whooof'! Flambe by leaving the
crepes in the pan until the flames die down. Serve at once. Once
consumed, you should turn down the lights, 'snuggle' up on the
settee, and discuss the merits of French Cuisine in whispers. Bon
appetite :-) From Ron's Place in Blackpool, just a whisper from your
heart :-)

