Title: CRISP ATLANTIC SALMON ON LENTILS WITH MOROCCA
Categories: None
Yield: 1 Servings
Pre-heat the oven to 350
Degrees
Pre-heat grill.
Begin the sauce:
1/2 c  Olive oil
1 c  Shallots, peeled and chopped
1/4 c  Garlic, peeled and chopped
Salt and pepper to taste
1 tb Harissa
2    Beefsteak tomatoes (or 6
Plum), chopped
Prepare the Spice Mix:
1/2 c  Coriander seeds
1/4 c  Cumin seed
1/2 c  Fennel seed
2 tb Cloves
1/4 c  Cardamom
Heat the olive oil in a saute pan over medium heat, add the shallots
and garlic, and season. Saute until the vegetables are translucent,
about 5 minutes. Add the harissa and stir.Cook for 3-5 minutes. Add
the tomatoes and 4 tablespoons of the spice blend Toast the above in
a pre-heated 350 degree oven for five minutes (or on the stove over
medium heat). Grind the mixture in a spice or coffee grinder. Coat
the salmon. Finish the Sauce: Working in batches, puree the mixture
in a food processor, until the liquid is smooth. Set aside until
ready to use. Makes enough for at least twelve fillets. Make the
lentils: 5 cups blanched lentils 1/2 cup chicken stock 1 tablespoon
butter Salt and pepper Show uncooked blend of red, yellow and green
lentils. Move to blanched lentils. Heat saute pan, add stock and
lentils and simmer until liquid almost evaporates. Stir in butter,
season and serve. Cook the salmon: Six 7-ounce skin-on boneless
fillets Salt Spice blend for seasoning Butter (1/2 teaspoon per
fillet) and olive oil for sauteing Bring two saute pans to high heat,
add the olive oil, and when hot, add salmon fillets, skin-side down
(do not crowd pan). Shake pans to be sure the fillets are not
sticking. Add the butter little bits at a time, shaking the pan to
incorporate the butter Make the tzatziki: 32 ounces yogurt 2 English
cucumbers, peeled, seeded and diced 4 cloves of garlic, minced 2
tablespoons fresh dill, chopped 1 tablespoon fresh mint, chopped 3
tablespoons extra virgin olive oil 1 1/2 tablespoons fresh lemon
juice Salt and pepper to taste Place yogurt in cheese cloth, tie the
end closed with kitchen string and hang it on a rack, above a bowl,
in the refrigerator. Allow to drain for two hours or overnight.
Discard the liquid in the bowl, and blend the yogurt with the
remaining ingredients. Prepare the nan bread: 1/2 cup olive oil 2
cloves garlic, minced Salt 6 pieces nan bread (or other Mediterranean
flat bread) Combine oil, garlic and salt. Using a pastry brush, coat
the bread lightly with the oil and place on grill. Cook to mark
bread, turn to mark other side and serve. To serve: Mound lentils in
center of plate. Place salmon fillet on top, skin side up. Surround
with sauce. Present with side dishes of tzatziki and nan bread.
Yield: 6 main course servings. Posted to MC-Recipe Digest V1 #1

Recipe by: :CHEF DU JOUR RICK MOONEN SHOW #DJ9383

From: "Ed Bauman" <BIRCHCREEK@msn.com>

Date: Thu, 5 Dec 96 19:57:33 UT

