Title: CROCKPOT CHILI VERDE
Categories: Pork, New_mexican, Crockpot
Yield: 6 Servings
1    Onion; coarsely chopped
1    Bell pepper, green; coarsely
-chopped
4    Garlic clove; minced
1 tb Olive oil
4 oz Green chile, canned diced
1    Jalape#o; diced (opt)
7    Tomatillo
2 lb Pork, lean; trimmed & cubed
2 ts Oregano
2 ts Sage
1 ts Cumin
1 ts Red pepper flakes
1/2 c  Beer
First, saute one onion and one green pepper, coarsely chopped, with
three or four cloves of garlic, minced, in olive oil. Throw into the
crockpot. Also throw in a small can of diced green chiles. Depending
on your propensity for spicy food, you may add from one to three
jalapenos, sliced. Then, throw some tomatillos in the pot. How many?
Well, when I got fresh ones in San Diego, I'd get seven or eight.
Peel off the husk and coarsely chop.  Now that I've moved to
Pittsburgh (don't ask me why), I've had to use canned ones on
occasion. How many? Well, I don't really remember, it was one medium
sized can, I think. Pay attention: I mean tomatillos, not green
tomatoes.  The Frugal Gourmet substituted celery and tomatoes. I
haven't forgiven him yet.

Take about 2 pounds of lean pork (I trim off all the excess fat I
can), cubed, and brown in the pan that you sauteed the onion, etc.
in. Into the pot.  Now, the seasoning mixture. I prefer to grind up
in my mortar oregano, some dried red chile peppers, sage, and cumin
seed. Perhaps also some black pepper.  I almost never put salt in
anything, so I probably wouldn't here either, but you may want to.
How much? Well, about 2 tsp each of the oregano and the sage.  1 tsp
each of the cumin seed and dried red peppers. Salt and pepper to
taste. I probably will add a dash of beer (about 1/2 cup) for obscure
reasons.

This crockpots all day, or could be simmered for probably about 2
hours.

Traditionally, this is served in bowls, with hot flour tortillas,
salsa, and cilantro.  You can also have sour cream, grated cheese,
olives, and pickled carrots and jalapenos around. Of course, you wrap
all this up in the tortillas, making killer burritos.

I throw one twist into this, a technique that comes from carnitas.
After cooking, I separate the meat from the broth, crisp the meat
under the broiler, and reduce the sauce in the pan. This adds a great
texture to the meat, and keeps the burritos from being too soggy.
This is not what the original requester would want to do.

