Title: CROCKPOT BROWNIE CAKES IN A JAR
Categories: Crockpot, Brownies
Yield: 2 Servings
2    CANNING JARS,
-wide mouth (See note)
1 c  ALL-PURPOSE FLOUR
1 c  SUGAR
1/2 ts BAKING SODA
1/4 ts GROUND CINNAMON (optional)
1/3 c  BUTTER or MARGARINE
1/4 c  WATER
3 tb Unsweetened cocoa powder
1/4 c  BUTTERMILK
1    EGG, beaten
1/2 ts VANILLA EXTRACT
1/4 c  WALNUTS, finely chopped
Well grease two 1-pint straight-sided wide-mouth canning jars; line
the bottom of each jar with waxed paper. Set aside.

In a small bowl stir together flour, sugar, baking soda and
cinnamon, if desired. Set aside.

In a medium saucepan combine butter or margarine, water, and cocoa
powder; heat and stir till margarine is melted and mixture is well
blended. Remove from heat; stir in flour mixture. Add buttermilk, egg
and vanilla; beat by hand until smooth. Stir in nuts.

Pour mixture into the prepared canning jars. Cover the jars tightly
with greased foil. (Place greased-side down on each jar).

Place jars in a 3 1/2, 4, 5, or 6-quart crockery cooker with liner in
place.  Cover; cook on high heat setting for 2-3/4 to 3 hours or until
cakes spring back when touched and a long wooden toothpick inserted
near the centers comes out clean. Remove jars from cooker; cool 10
minutes. Unmold cakes; remove waxed paper. Serve warm or cool with
ice cream. Makes 8 servings.

WARNING: Use only CANNING JARS for this recipe. Others may not be
tempered to withstand the heat. Do NOT use coffee or vegetable cans
as most contain lead and are painted or sealed with materials that
may give off toxic gases when heated.

aken from "Better Homes and Gardens New Crockery Cooker"

This recipe doesn't say you can seal them up and store them in your
pantry but my Kerr Canning book recipe says you can; here's how:

Remove jars from the oven one at a time, wipe rim of jar clean; put
on lid and ring and screw on tightly.
Jars will seal as the cake cools. Store like canned goods.

If you'll be giving these as gifts, take a piece of decorative cloth
(about 1-inch larger in circumference than the lid) and put it on top
of the lid, then screw on the ring. Make sure you screw the lid on
very tightly. I like to use pinking shears to cut the cloth out with.
I've posted a recipe for baking the jars in the oven, it's posted on
the Sweet Bread topic.

Posted by.MAGEE [Linda] Linda/BDT Burbank, CA

