Title: CROWN ROAST OF PORK WITH SAUSAGE & HERB STU
Categories: Pork, Stuffings, Holidays
Yield: 6 Servings
1    Crown roast of pork with
-16 chops, about 6 lb
Salt & freshly ground pepp
SAUSAGE & HERB STUFFING
1/4 c  Unsalted butter
1 lg Yellow onion; minced
1 lg Celery stalk; in 1/4" dice
2    Garlic clove; minced
1/2 lb Bulk sweet pork sausage;
-crumbled
2 1/2 c  Fresh herbed bread crumbs;
-(recipe follows)
1    Egg; well beaten
1/4 c  Chicken stock; approx.
Salt & freshly ground pepper
-----HERBED BREAD CRUMBS----
4 sl White bread
1 pn Salt
1 pn Freshly ground pepper
1/4 ts Chopped fresh thyme; or
1/8 ts Dried thyme
1/4 ts Chopped fresh rosemary; or
1/8 ts Dried rosemary
Recipe by: Williams-Sonoma Kitchen Library, Pork & Lamb
Position rack in middle of oven and preheat to 400~.
Set crown roast on a rack in roasting pan. Season to taste with
salt and pepper. Roast, uncovered, on middle rack for 30 minutes.
Reduce heat to 32 and, basting frequently with pan juices, continue
roasting for 45 minutes.

Sausage and Herb Stuffing:  In a large frying pan over medium-low
heat, melt butter. Add onion and celery and saute, stirring
occasionally, until soft, about 15 minutes. Add garlic and sausage
and cook, stirring, until sausage is browned, about 10 minutes
longer. Using a slotted spoon, transf sausage mixture to a bowl.
Discard the fat in the pan.
Add bread crumbs and egg to sausage mixture. Add enough chicken
stock j to moisten the stuffing, then season to taste with salt and
pepper. Mix we
Mound stuffing in center of crown roast and return roast to oven.
Bake until an instant-read thermometer inserted into center of roast
away from bone registers 150~ or a chop is pale pink when cut in the
center, about 3 minutes longer. (Check periodically and cover the rib
ends with foil if th brown before the meat is done).
Remove roast from oven, cover with a large piece of foil and let
stand 10 minutes before carving.
To serve, cut meat between rib bones. Accompany each serving with a
spoonful of stuffing.
Serves 6 - 8.

Herbed Bread Crumbs:  The best bread to use is a coarse-textured
white bread that can be purchased sliced in 1- or 1-1/2-pound loaves.

Cut the crust off bread and discard. Tear bread into pieces. In a
food processor fitted with a metal blade or in a blender, combine
bread, salt a pepper. Process bread until it forms coarse crumbs. Add
thyme and rosemary and pulse a few times just until well mixed. Use
immediately, or store in an airtight container in the freezer for up
to 1 year.
Makes about 1 cup.  (You will need to triple this recipe for use
with Sausage and Herb Stuffing)

