Title: COCONUT-LIME PIE
Categories: Pies
Yield: 10 Servings
1    Coconut-Graham-Cracker
Piecrust
Filling-----
1 1/2 ts Unflavored gelatin
3 tb Cold water
1/4 c  Cornstarch
1 1/2 c  Milk
2 lg Eggs, yolks only
1 1/2 ts Lime zest
1/8 ts Salt
1 c  Coconut cream, NOT coconut
Milk
1/2 c  Fresh lime juice
2 ts Vanilla
1/2 c  Whipping cream, heavy
Coconut Cream----
1 c  Heavy whipping cream
1/4 c  Cream of coconut
1/2 ts Vanilla extract
Garnish----
Toasted coconut
1. Prepare piecrust. Cool completely.

2. Filling: Sprinkle water over gelatin in a cup. Let stand at least 2
minutes to soften.

3. Whisk cornstarch and 1/4 cup of the milk in a 1-quart
microwave-safe measuring cup or bowl until smooth. Whisk in egg
yolks, 1 teaspoon of the lime peel and the salt. Whisk in remaining 1
1/4 cups milk and the cream of coconut until blended.

4. Microwave on high 3 minutes. Whisk until smooth. Microwave 3 1/2
to 7 1/2 minutes longer, whisking every 2 minutes, until boiling,
thickened and smooth. Immediately stir in softened gelatin and
continue stirring until gelatin dissolves (you'll see it liquefy).

5. Stir mixture through a fine-mesh strainer into a medium-size bowl
(not aluminum). Stir in remaining 1/2 teaspoon lime peel and the lime
juice.

6. Set bowl in a larger bowl half-filled with ice water. Stir mixture
and scrape down sides of bowl often, 5 to 10 minutes, until cool and
thick enough to fall in soft mounds. Stir in vanilla. Remove bowl
from ice-water bath.

7. Beat cream with electric mixer until soft peaks form when beaters
are lifted. Gently stir into filling just until blended.

8. Spread filling in piecrust. Cover surface of filling with plastic
wrap (to keep a skin from forming) and refrigerate at least 2 hours
until set or up to 3 days.

9. Coconut Cream: Up to 1 hour before serving, beat heavy cream,
cream of coconut and vanilla in a medium-size bowl until stiff peaks
form. Pipe a lattice design on filling, then a border around edge of
pie (using a pastry bag fitted with a star tip) or spread cream on
filling. Sprinkle with coconut, if desired. Refrigerate until ready
to serve.

: Womans Day, daily recipe
Recipe By

