Title: COCONUT CREAM PUFFS
Categories: New import
Yield: 4 Servings
1 c  All-purpose flour
2 ts Plus 2 TBs sugar (divided
Use)
1/4 ts Salt
c  Skim milk (divided use)
2 tb Plus 1 1/2 Tsp margarine
(divided use)
3 lg Egg whites
1 lg Egg yolk
Nonstick cooking spray
1/2 ts Unflavored gelatin
1 tb Water
2 tb Cornstarch
1 lg Egg
3 tb Cream of coconut
1/2 ts Coconut extract
1/2 ts Vanilla extract
3/4 c  Frozen reduced-calorie
Whipped topping,
Thawed
2 tb Confectioners' sugar
Mint sprigs (optional)
Preheat oven to 425 F. Mix flour, 2 Tsp sugar and salt in small bowl;
set aside. Put 1 cup milk and 2 TBs margarine in large saucepan;
bring to boil. Reduce heat to low; add dry ingredients, stir well
until mixture is smooth and pulls away from sides of pan. Remove from
heat; allow to cool 5 minutes. Add egg whites and egg yolk, 1 at a
time, beating at low speed with mixer until smooth. Drop dough by
level TBs, 2 inches apart, on baking sheets greased with a cooking
spray. Bake 10 minutes. Reduce oven temp. to 350 F; bake10 minutes
more or until brown and crisp. Remove from oven; pierce side of each
cream puff with tip of sharp knife. Turn off oven; let cream puffs
stand in partially closed oven for 5 minutes. Remove from baking
sheet to wire rack; allow to cool. Sprinkle gelatin over water in
small bowl; set aside. Mix 2 TBs sugar, cornstarch and egg in medium
bowl. Stir with whisk; set aside. Heat 3/4 Cup milk over med-high
heat in heavy saucepan to 180 F or till tiny bubbles form around edge
(do not allow milk to boil). Gradually add hot milk to egg mixture;
stir constantly with whisk. Return milk mixture to pan. Add 1 1/2 Tsp
margarine. Bring to boil over med heat; cook 1 minute or until thick,
stirring constantly with whisk. Add soft gelatin to milk mixture;
cook over low heat 1 minute, stirring until gelatin dissolves. Remove
pan from heat; stir in cream of coconut, coconut extract and vanilla.
Place pan in a large ice-filled bowl; allow to stand 15 minutes or
till room temp. (don't allow mixture to set). Remove pan from ice.
Gently whisk in whipped topping. Cover and chill 4 hours or until
thick.

Cut tops off cream puffs; fill each cream puff with 1 Tbs. filling.
Sprinkle confectioners' sugar over cream Duffs. Garnish with mint
springs. Makes 24 cream puffs.

NOTE: When making ahead, place baked and cooled cream puffs in large
heavy Duty zip-type plastic bag, and seal. Then freeze the cream
puffs. Cover and chill cooked filling. When reheating cream puffs,
remove from zip bag, place on Large baking sheet. In a 325 degree
oven bake fro 10 min. or until crisp. Remove from baking sheet to
wire rack; allow cooling completely. Fill using the

Directions above.

Per serving: Calories 65 Fat 2.6g Cholesterol 19mg Sodium 59mg Percent
calories from fat 36%

Adapted From: Dallas Morning News 1/8/97 Typos by Bobbie Beers

