Title: COCONUT CREAM EGGS
Categories: Candies
Yield: 40 Pieces
6 tb Butter; melted
1/3 c  Light corn syrup
2 ts Vanilla extract
1/2 ts Salt
3 1/2 c  (1 lb.) powdered sugar
10 oz MOUNDS Sweetened Coconut
-Flakes
Additional powdered sugar
MMMMM------------------SIMPLE CHOCOLATE COATING-----------------------
12 oz HERSHEY'S Chocolate Chips
-(Semi-Sweet)
-OR- HERSHEY'S MINI CHIPS
2 tb Shortening*, plus...
2 ts Shortening*
*(do not use butter, margarine or oil)

1. In large bowl, stir together butter, corn syrup, vanilla and salt.
Gradually add powdered sugar and coconut, beating until blended.

2. Sprinkle about 1 tablespoon additional powdered sugar on flat
surface. Spoon coconut mixture onto prepared surface; knead about 5
minutes. Using 1-1/2 teaspoons mixture for each candy, shape into egg
shape. Place on wax paper-covered tray.

3. Refrigerate 1 to 2 hours before dipping into SIMPLE CHOCOLATE
COATING. Place coated eggs on wax paper-covered tray. Store in cool,
dry place. About 40 candies.

SIMPLE CHOCOLATE COATING

1. In medium heat-proof bowl, place chocolate chips and shortening. In
separate large heat-proof bowl, put very warm water (100 F. to 110
F.) to 1-inch depth. Carefully place bowl with chocolate into bowl
with water; water should come halfway up side of chocolate bowl.

2. With dry rubber scraper, stir chocolate and shortening CONSTANTLY,
until chocolate and shortening are melted and mixture is smooth. Do
NOT get water in bowl with chocolate.* If water cools, replace it
with very warm water as directed above. Remove chocolate bowl from
inside water bowl.

3. With fork, one at a time, dip chilled centers into chocolate
mixture; gently tap fork on edge of bowl to remove excess
chocolate.** Invert coated center on prepared tray; swirl small
amount of melted chocolate on top to cover fork marks; let stand
until firm. Store candies loosely covered in cool, dry place. Coating
for 3 to 4 dozen centers.

* If water or moisture gets into chocolate, it can seize and tighten.
As an emergency measure, ONLY, stir in additional shortening, 1/2
teaspoonful at a time, just until chocolate is fluid again.

** If chocolate mixture cools below 84 F, return bowl with chocolate
into bowl with warm water. Chocolate is best for coating between 84
F. and 88 F.

Copyright 1995 Hershey Foods Corporation. Recipe may be reprinted
courtesy of the Hershey Kitchens.

Meal-Master format courtesy of Karen Mintzias.

