Title: COLD TROUT IN ORANGE MARINADE
Categories: Seafood
Yield: 6 Servings
3    Trout (about 3/4 lb each),
Gutted and scaled but with
Heads and tails left on
1/2 c  Extra virgin olive oil
1/2 c  Flour, spread on a plate
2 tb Onion, chopped very fine
1 c  Dry white Italian vermouth
2 tb Chopped orange peel, using
Only the rind, not the pith
1/2 c  Freshly squeezed orange
Juice
Freshly squeezed juice of
One lemon
Salt
Freshly ground black pepper
1 1/2 tb Chopped parsley
1.  Wash the gutted, scaled fish in cold water and pat thoroughly dry
with paper towels. 2. Put the oil in a skillet and turn on the
heat to medium.  When the
oil is hot, lightly dredge both sides of the fish in flour and
slip
into the skillet.  Don't overcrowd the pan; if all the fish does
not
fit loosely at one time, cook it in batches, dredging it in flour
only
at the moment you are ready to put it into the pan. 3. Brown the
fish well on one side, then turn it and do the other,
calculating about 5 minutes on the first side and
4    minutes on the
second.  Using a slotted spatula or spoon, transfer the fish when
browned to a deep serving dish broad or long enough to accommodate
all of it without overlapping.  Do not pour out the oil in the
skillet. 4. With a well-sharpened knife, make two or three
diagonal cuts on both
side of the fish.  be careful not to tear the skin, and avoid
cutting
into the flesh. 5. Put the chopped onion into the skillet that
still contains the oil in
which you cooked the fish.  Turn on the heat to medium and cook
the
onion until it becomes colored a pale gold. 6. Add the vermouth
and the orange peel.  Let the vermouth bubble gently
for about 30 seconds, stir, then add the orange juice, lemon
juice,
salt, and a few grindings of pepper.  Let everything bubble for
about
half a minute, stirring two or three times.  Add the chopped
parsley,
stir once or twice, then pour the entire contents of the skillet
over
the fish in the serving dish. 7. Allow the fish to steep in its
marinade at room temperature for at
least 6 hours before refrigerating.  Plan to serve the fish no
sooner
than the following day.  Do serve it within 3 days at the latest
to
enjoy its flavor at its freshest.  Take it out of the refrigerator
at least 2 hours before bringing to the table to allow it to come
to
room temperature.  Before serving, garnish it, if you like, with
fresh slices of orange. ~--

