Title: COLOMBIAN FRESH BANANA CAKE WITH SEA FOAM FROSTING COCA-C
Categories: Cakes
Yield: 1 Servings
1    Pkg (18.5 oz) yellow
Cake mix **
1/8 ts Baking soda
2    Eggs
3/4 c  COCA-COLA
1 c  Bananas, ripe and mashed
2 ts Lemon juice
1/3 c  Nuts, finely chopped (opt)
MMMMM---------------------SEA FOAM FROSTING--------------------------
2    Egg whites
1 1/2 c  (firmly packed) light
Brown sugar
1/8 ts Cream of tartar *
1/3 c  COCA-COLA
1 ts Vanilla extract
Dash salt
*  Do not use a mix with pudding added or which requires oil.

*  you may substitute 1 tablespoon corn syrup.

TO MAKE THE CAKE:  In a large mixing bowl, combine the cake mix,
baking soda, and eggs.  Measure the Coca-Cola, stir briskly until the
foaming stops; add to the batter.  Blend ingredients just until
moistened, then beat at high speed of an electric mixer for 3
minutes, scraping the bowl often.

In a bowl, combine the mashed bananas with the lemon juice; add to the
batter.  Add the chopped nuts to the batter and beat for 1 minute at
medium speed.  Turn the batter into a well-greased, lightly floured,
13x9x2-inch pan.

Bake in a preheated, 350 degree F oven for about 40 minutes or until
the cake tests done.  Cool on a rack for 15 minutes, remove cake from
pan and turn right-side up on a rack to finish cooling.

TO MAKE THE SEA FOAM FROSTING:  In the top of a double boiler,
combine all the ingredients except the vanilla extract.  Beat 1
minute at high speed of an electric mixer.  Place over boiling water
(the water should not touch the bottom of the top half of the double
boiler.). Beat on high speed about 7 minutes until the frosting forms
peaks when the mixer is raised.

Remove from boiling water (for the smoothest frosting, empty into a
large bowl).  Add the vanilla extract and continue beating on high
speed until thick enough to spread, about 2 minutes.  Spread on the
sides and top of the cold banana cake.

Recipe:  "International Cooking with Coca-Cola", a give-away
pamphlet from The Coca-Cola Company, 1981

