Title: COOKING BREADS & CAKES
Categories: Crockpot
Yield: 1 Lesson
MMMMM-------------------ITEMS THAT CAN BE USED------------------------
2 lb Coffee can
1 lb Coffee can
16 oz Vegetable cans
6 c  Mold, or 7 cups mold
1 1/2 qt Baking dish
There are a few tricks to remember when "baking" in one of these pots.
First, turn the control to HIGH (or to the setting which is
equivalent to the HIGH used in my recipes). The LOW setting is too
low to give breads and cakes the texture you expect.  With breads,
remember to cover the container with a lid or foil. Tie the lid or
foil onto the container and place the container on a metal rack or
trivet inside the pot. If you don't have a metal rack or trivet to
fit your slow cooker, crumple foil and place it in the bottom of the
pot to support the baking continer. Pour 2 cups of hot water around
the container to provide steam for cooking the bread.

When using a deep-dryer type slow cooker, check frequently to make
sure the water hasn't evaporated. Add more water if needed.

As a rule, it is not a good idea to remove the lid or foil from the
bread container during the first 2 hours of cooking. After that,
check the bread by inserting a toothpick in the mixture. If the
toothpick comes out clean, the bread is done.

When using a standard cake mix, the prcedure is slightly different.
Cakes are "baked" in a pan set directly on the bottom of the slow
cooker, similar to the way you would do it in an oven. It is not
necessary to use a trivet or water.  Instead of covering the uncooked
cake misture with foil or a lid, cover the top with four or five
layers of paper towels. Becouse there is more moisture in a slow
cooker than in an oven it is necessary to compensate for this with
the paper towels to help absorb the moist top of the cake mix.  Also,
leave the lid of your slow cooker slightly open to let extra moisture
escape.

The type and kind of container to use for breads and cakes will
depend on the size of your pot.  In addition to molds and coffee
cans, spring forms or small bundt pans make excellent containers.

The containers at the top hold approzimately the same amount of
batter so you can substitute one for another.

From:CROCKERY COOKERY by Mable Hoffman's

Formatted for MM by Janet Newcomer, JNewcomer1@Genie.Com or
JNew273@AOL.Com

