Title: All About Onions - part 1
Categories: Information, Vegetables
Yield: 1 info
MMMMM-----------------------NO INGREDIENTS----------------------------
The onion comes from the large lily family and the extensive Allium
genus. How can you identify one? If you crush it and you cry, it's an
allium. Sulfur compounds concentrated in the tissue of the onion are
responsible for this notorious reaction. Of the several hundred
alliums in the world, most are wild species that have from time to
time been gathered and eaten. The cultivated alliums  the ones sold
in our markets need no further introduction. They are onions, leeks,
shallots, garlic, and chives; and they each belong to a different
species. Onions alone make up a species called cepa.

Eat an onion and you will get no fat, few calories, a jolt of vitamin
C, and enough fiber to do your digestive system some good.

Basically there are two categories: the storage or hot-onion type and
the fresh or sweet-onion type. (The onions are rated according to
this heat index; ****=hot/sharp; ***=hot; **=moderately hot; *
sweet/mild.)

Storage onions, which you find loose and in mesh bags at the market
year-round, do most of the seasoning work in the world's kitchens.
They are sturdy, high in sulfur, low in water, and their taste range
from hellishly to moderately hot. They have a natural resistance to
molds and bacteria. Grown mainly in California and northern states,
they are usually planted in the spring. As the early fall harvest
approaches and the onions have stopped growing, the tops of the
onions fall over and are allowed to dry in the fields for a few days.
When the onions are gathered, the tops drop or are cut off. Before
they are bagged and shipped, the onions are stored for at least a
week and up to six months in huge ventilated sheds until their papery
skins are tough and dry. The grouping includes the following:

~ Yellow storage onions (****), the most common cooking variety,
range from very small to moderately large. As strong, lusty, hot, and
tear provoking as they are, they lose their heat when cooked. this is
an all-purpose onion, good in any raw or cooked dish and well suited
for stuffing because they don't fall apart.

~ White storage onions (****) have sharp, crisp flavor, and
proportionately more water than the yellows (which make them a little
more perishable). Small to very large (as much as 1 pounds), whites
taste sweet in first bite, but then the pungent sulfur flavor kicks
in. They are great for sauting and stewing.

~ Spanish onions (***) are very large, round, yellow storage onions.
Since they have a slightly higher water content, they are generally
crisper, more perishable, and not so hot. Use them raw, sauted, or
caramelized. Bermuda onions, another variety of large yellows, which
were popular in the past and commonly mistaken for Spanish onions,
are no longer being grown.

~ Red onions (**), similar to Spanish ones except for their hue, have
a coarser flesh and are slightly sweeter but still pungent. Like all
onions, the larger ones are usually a tad less sharp and hold more
moisture than their smaller siblings. These are best used raw because
they get watery and lose these impressive color when cooked.

~ Boiling onions (**), about 1- to 2-inches in diameter and pearl
onions (**), about 1- to 1-inches, are smaller versions of ordinary
storage onions. There are some cultivars, or horticultural varieties,
that are naturally small, but most boilers and pearls are created by
deliberately crowding: farmers plant the fields so densely that the
onions just don't have room to grow. They are machine harvested and
dried in sheds until their outer protective leaves are crisp. Pearls,
which can be white, red, or gold, are sold by the pint. They are
sweet, with a sharp bite, great for marinating or pickling. Boiling
onions, white or yellow, are closer in taste to large storage onions
and just the right size for using whole in stews. They are sold in
bulk.

~ Specialty Italian cultivars (**), variations on the storage onion,
are appearing with increasing frequency in summer farmers' markets.
These include the purple, torpedo-shaped Red Bottle onions, also
called Florence long-red onions; the intensely flavored crisp, small,
flat button-shaped Borettana onions, also called Cipollini; and the
newly bred mild-flavored Simiane. Cook and serve whole, or cut up and
use in salads.

Fresh or sweet onions, the second major category, consists of the
large, juicy, sexy cultivars that are high in water and sugar and low
in the sulfur compounds that irritate the eyes and mouth. Extremely
crisp and relatively perishable, they are usually sold individually
and weigh from one-third to one pound each. Mostly grown across the
South, they are planted in the fall or winter and harvested in the
spring or early summer. Some are picked before they mature and are
shipped with their green tops. But most fresh onions are harvested by
hand after the tops have fallen and dried. They are cured very
briefly in big bins to dry the outer skins, but these onions are not
keepers and are meant to be used quickly. Sweet onions generally have
perfectly concentric center, which make them ideal for onion rings,
and because of their high sugar content, they caramelize easily. They
are great on burgers and in salads.

by Linda and Fred Griffith Food and Wine June 1995
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   06-18-95

