Title: Andouille
Categories: Sausage, Cajun/creol
Yield: 1 servings
1 1/2 ea Yards large sausage casing,
-approximately (about 2-3
-inches wide)
4 lb Lean fresh pork
2 lb Pork fat
3 1/3 ea Tb Finely minced garlic
2 ea Tb Salt
1/2 ts Freshly ground black
-pepper
1/8 ts Cayenne
1/8 ts Chili powder
1/8 ts Mace
1/8 ts Allspice
1/2 ts Dried thyme
1 ea Tb Paprika
1/4 ts Ground bay leaf
1/4 ts Sage
5 ts Colgin's liquid hickory
-smoke
Andouille was a great favorite in nineteenth-century New Orleans. This
thick Cajun sausage is made with lean pork and pork fat and lots of
garlic. Sliced about 1/2 inch thick and grilled, it makes a
delightful appetizer. It is  also used in a superb oyster and
andouille gumbo popular in Laplace, a Cajun  town about 30 miles from
New Orleans that calls itself the Andouille   Capital of the World.
(about 6 pounds of 20 inch sausage, 3 to 3 1/2 inches thick) Soak the
casing about an hour in cold water to soften it and to loosen the
salt in which it is packed. Cut into 3 yard lengths, then place the
narrow end of the sausage stuffer in one end of the casing. Place the
wide end of the stuffer up against the sink faucet and run cold water
through the inside of the casing to remove any salt. (Roll up the
casing you do not intend to use; put about 2 inches of coarse salt in
a large jar, place the rolled up casing on it, then fill the rest of
the jar with salt.  Close tightly and refrigerate for later use.) Cut
the meat and fat into chunks about 1/2 inch across and pass once
through the coarse blade of the meat grinder.  Combine the pork with
the remaining ingredients in a large bowl and mix well with a wooden
spoon. Cut the casings into 26 inch lengths and stuff as follows:
Tie a knot in each piece of casing about 2 inches from one end.  Fit
the open end over the tip of the sausage stuffer and slide it to
about 1 inch from the wide end. Push the rest of the casing onto the
stuffer until the top touches the knot. (The casing will look like
accordion folds on the stuffer.) Fit the stuffer onto the meat
grinder as directed on the instructions that come with the machine,
or hold the wide end of the stuffer against or over the opening by
hand. Fill the hopper with stuffing.  Turn the machine on if it is
electric and feed the stuffing gradually into the hopper; for a
manual machine, push the stuffing through with a wooden pestle.  The
sausage casing will fill and inflate gradually.  Stop filling about 1
1/4 inches from the funnel end and slip the casing off the funnel,
smoothing out any bumps carefully with your fingers and being careful
not to push the stuffing out of the casing. Tie off the open end of
the sausage tightly with a piece of string or make a knot in the
casing itself.  Repeat until all the stuffing is used up. To cook,
slice the andouille 1/2 inch thick and grill in a hot skillet with no
water for about 12 minutes on each side, until brown and crisp at the
edges. Ellen Cleary From: Rich Harper

Submitted By PAT STOCKETT   On   06-18-95

