Title: Authentic Tex-Mex Fajitas
Categories: Tex/mexican, Meats
Yield: 2 lb beef sk
1/2    Onion, halved and thinly
-sliced
2 ts Ground Cumin
2 ts Powdered red chiles
3    Pickled jalapenos, chopped
2    Clv  Garlic, chopped
1/4 c  Lime Juice
2 tb Jalapeno pickling liquid*
1 tb Soy sauce (optional)
1 ts Liquid smoke (optional)
Description:

Fajitas are pure Tex-Mex food.  They originated along the Rio Grande
River on the Texas-Mexico border and were eaten by cattle wranglers.
The skirt steak is the traditional cut used and was reserved
primarily for the chief cowboy.  Other cuts of beef can be
substituted, such as flank steak or sirloin, but the skirt steak is
by far the most tender, flavorful and authentic.

You might be wondering where the cast-iron griddle with the sizzling
bell peppers and onions are in this recipe. While such a serving
method may be dramatic, it is an affection developed by chain
restaurants and is in no way part of true Tex-Mex fajitas. You may go
ahead and add it, but I am still partial to the clean, simple taste
of hot grilled meat topped soley with fresh tomato salsa and
blanketed in warm, soft tortillas. I do make two minor additions in
my recipe when oven-broiling: I add soy sauce to help the thinly cut
steaks brown quicker, and I use bottled "liquid smoke" to replicate
the flavors created by the more desirable method of
charcoal-grilling.  Otherwise the recipe is as authentic as it gets.

Instructions:

1. Place half of the onions in the bottom of a non-reactive dish.
Mix the cumin, powdered red chiles, chopped jalapenos and garlic
together in a small bowl, then rub on all sides of the meat.  Put the
skirt steak into the dish, on top of the onions.  Pour the lime juice
and the jalapeno liquid over all areas to coat.  Sprinkle the
remaining onions on top of the meat.  Cover and refrigerate at least
1 hour, but preferably overnight, turning once.

2. Preheat the grill or broiler until hot.  Fajitas need to cook
close to a very high heat source, in order to sear the outside but
still leave to inside medium rare.  Mix together the oil, and if you
are using them, the soy sauce and liquid smoke.  Brush or spoon the
oil mixture onto the meat surfaces.  Grill or broil about 2 to 3
minutes on each side, or until the outside is brown and slightly
charred, and the inside is still pink.

3. Remove to meat to a cutting board.  Let stand 5 minutes before
slicing. Cut the meat into thin strips that can be easly rolled into
tortillas. Serve with warm, soft tortillas and fresh Pico de Gallo or
Salsa Fresca.

Source/Author: Electronic Global Gourmet Copyright 1995 Katherine
Heyhoe

Notes:

*This is the liquid used to pickle and flavor the jalapenos.  It is
basically white wine vinegar with added spices, and there is always
ample liquid in the jar or can to use in this recipe, without leaving
the remaining jalapenos dry.
Submitted By BOB SHIELLS   On   05-30-95

