Title: Breast of Lox
Categories: Poultry, Fish
Yield: 4 servings
4 ea Whole boneless chicken
. breasts
4 ea Thin slices Provolone cheese
1/4 lb Nova lox, cut into 4 slices
1 ea Egg, beaten
1/2 c  Milk
1/2 c  Buttermilk
1 c  (scant) Italian seasoned
. bread crumbs
1/4 c  Olive oil
12 oz Linguine noodles
x  Freshly grated Parmesan
. cheese, as needed
2 cn (14.5-oz.) Italian flat
. green beans
x  Butter to taste
1/4 c  Cashew nuts
1 tb Diced pimento
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.  Using a meat mallet, pound the chicken
breasts to ensure even thickness.  Place a slice of Provolone and a
slice of lox on half of each breast.  Fold the other half of the
chicken breast over the cheese and lox and secure with a toothpick.

Pour the bread crumbs onto a sheet of waxed paper or a large plate
and set aside.

In a shallow bowl, mix the beaten egg with the milk and buttermilk.
Dip the chicken pockets into the egg mixture to coat, then roll them
in the bread crumbs for a light coat.  Heat the olive oil in a large
skillet. Add the chicken breasts and brown on both sides.  You may
need to remove the toothpick for easier browning.

Place the browned chicken breasts on a broiler pan sprayed with
nonstick cooking spray.  Bake for 30 minutes at 350 degrees, or until
chicken is no longer pink and chicken juices run clear.

While the chicken bakes, cook and drain the linguine noodles.  Butter
them with one-half stick of butter and sprinkle generously with
freshly grated Parmesan cheese.  Spread the noodles across the center
of a large serving platter.

Heat the beans in a pan with the cashews and pimento.  Ring the
platter with the green beans and remove the platter to a 250-degree
oven, if possible, to keep warm.

When the chicken is done, arrange it diagonally across the noodles.
If you feel the chicken breasts are too large for individual
servings, slice the breasts into diagonal strips and arrange them
across the noodles.

Serve with soft breadsticks and individual garlic butter cups to 4
hearty eaters.

Nutritional analysis per serving (based on 4 servings):  1,306
calories (42% fat); 60.9g fat (27.6g saturated fat); 303mg
cholesterol; 1,515mg sodium.

Source:  Karen Luscher of Edmore, Michigan to Diane Hofsess of
Gannett News Service, as seen in THE OLYMPIAN, 5/24/95.

keyed by iris grayson
Submitted By IRIS GRAYSON   On   06-01-95

