Title: CHICKEN SOUP AVGOLEMONO
Categories: Soup/stew, Greek, Usenet
Yield: 4 servings
64 oz Chicken broth
-(You can get away
-with instant broth,
-but make sure it is
-of good quality.
-I usually use Knorr
-Chicken Bouillon cubes)
4 tb White rice (unconverted,
-not Uncle Ben's!!!)
2 lg Eggs
1    Lemon
1/2 ts Salt (or more to taste)
Bring the broth to a boil and add the rice and salt.  Let rice cook
for 15-20 minutes. Remove pot from stove and let it cool for a while.

Separate the whites from the egg yolks, and beat the whites in a large
bowl, until they thicken a little. Add the yolks and the juice of the
lemon and beat until you get a uniform mixture.

Now carefully, using a ladle, pour some of the warm broth into the egg
mixture, while beating continuously.  When your bowl is full, pour the
contents back into the remaining broth, and stir until you get a
uniform mixture.

Now serve and, I hope, enjoy!

NOTES:

*  Greek style egg & lemon chicken soup -- Avgolemono in greek means
egg and lemon and is the most popular technique for preparing soup in
Greece. So much so, that unless stated otherwise, when one talks of
soup, one means avgolemono soup. What follows is a recipe for my
favourite, chicken soup, but feel free to substitute any kind of meat
or fish broth for the chicken. Yield: Serves four -hungry- people.

*  This process of treating eggs is known in greek as avgokomma, and
describes both this process and what will happen if you are not very
careful, the egg will coagulate and spoil everything! In order to
avoid such an unfortunate occurrence, you must let the broth cool a
little before adding the egg. This can easily be done by starting to
beat the eggs only after you have removed the broth from the stove,
thus giving time to the broth to cool.  However, if you're in a
hurry, you can pour a small glass of cold water into the broth (which
will obviously make the soup more diluted).  The broth must be poured
slowly into the egg and lemon mixture, but the two must be blended
quickly (use of an electric mixer is recommended).

*  The original recipe does not require beating the whites
separately, so you can simply beat the eggs whole until the whites
blend with the yolks, and then add the lemon. If you prepare the eggs
this way, the soup will be a little less smooth.

*  The soup can be kept in the refrigerator for a day or two.  Be
careful not to bring it to a boil when re-heating it, because the egg
will coagulate.

: Difficulty:  moderate (handling of egg whites in soup takes
experience). : Time:  30 minutes.
: Precision:  Approximate measurement OK.

: Kriton Kyrimis
: Princeton University, Computer Science Dept.
: princeton!tilt!kyrimis
: I reversed the polarity of the neutron flow...

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

