Title: Choosing and Using Mangoes
Categories: Information, Fruit
Yield: 1 info
MMMMM-----------------------NO INGREDIENTS----------------------------
Choosing the Ripest Fruit: To choose a good mango, smell it. It
should have a faintly sweet aroma, especially around the stem. No
perfume generally means no flavor. If the fruit smell sour or like
alcohol, it's past its prime. Choose firm fruit that is just
beginning to show some yellow or red in the skin. the skin should be
tight around the flesh; loose skin means the mango is old. A large
mango weighing 3/4 to 1 pound will yield about 1 cup diced mango or
cup pure. Usually 3/4 to 1 cup diced mango is enough for a serving if
the fruit is being eaten alone.

To ripen a mango, keep it at room temperature. When ripe, the fruit
will become more aromatic, its skin will take on a blush, and its
flesh will yield gently to the touch. If you want to hurry the
ripening process, put a few mangoes in a paper bag with a banana. The
natural gases exuded by the banan will hasten the ripening of the
mangoes. When mangoes are fully ripe can you refrigerate them, but
only for up to three days.

Slicing, Peeling and Cubing: This fruit has a large, flat central pit
that you need to cut around. To start, set the mango with its stem
facing you and its narrow side against your cutting board. With a
sharp knife, cut the "cheeks" from both sides of the central pit.
Once you've removed the mangoes cheeks, you can easily peel them
using a sharp paring knife or a vegetable pee;er. Peel the skin from
the remaining pit section and cut the flesh from the sides of the
pit. The flesh closest to the pit is the most fibrous and is
sometimes even tough. While this part of the mango will not yield the
wonderful chunks of meat that the checks do, it's just as delicious.

Slicing the mango into wedges or a fan of thin slices is easy once
you've removed the cheeks. Lay the cheeks face down on your cutting
board and slice them lengthwise. While peeling the mango first will
make the cheeks easier to slice, you can also serve slices or wedges
with the skin still on, as you would a melon.

To cube a mango, cup an unpeeled cheek in your hand and, using a
cross-hatch or diamond pattern, gently score the flesh, down to, but
not through, the skin. With a large spoon, scoop the diamond-shaped
pieces off the skin into a bowl. Or, you can turn the skin inside out
by holding the mango with both hands so that your thumbs are holding
the cut edges and you're pressing your fingers on the back of the
check.

If you plan to use the mango in a recipe, be sure to taste the fruit
and adjust the amount of sugar in the recipe accordingly.

To make mango pure, toss diced or sliced mango in a food processor and
process until smooth. If necessary sweeten the pure with a little
brown sugar. Add a bit of dark rum, if you wish.

Fine Cooking June-July 1995
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   06-17-95

