Title: Christmas Wreaths
Categories: Holiday, Cake/cookie, Nuts/grains
Yield: 1 servings
1 1/4 c  Sliced unblanched almonds,
Divided
2 1/4 c  All-purpose flour, divided
2/3 c  Granulated sugar
1/3 c  Confectioners' sugar
1/2 ts Salt
1 c  (2 sticks) unsalted butter,
Chilled and cut into
1/2    -inch cubes
1 lg Egg, chilled
4 ts Vanilla extract
2 ts Almond extract
3 tb Colored sugar
Make the cookie dough: 1. Position a rack in the center of the oven
and preheat to 375~F. Put three heavy, large ungreased baking sheets
in the refrigerator.

2. In a food processor fitted with the metal chopping blade, process
3/4 cup of the almonds with 1 cup of the flour for 30 to 45 seconds,
or until the mixture is ground to a fine powder. Add the remaining 1
1/4 cups flour, granulated sugar, confectioners' sugar and salt.
Process for 10 to 15 seconds, or until the mixture is thoroughly
blended.

3. Evenly distribute the butter cubes in a circle around the chopping
blade. Add the egg, vanilla and almond extracts. Process for 45 to 60
seconds, or until the mixture is creamy. (Make sure that the butter is
completely blended into the batter.)

4. Fill a pastry hag fitted with a closed star tip (such as Ateco #3)
with one-fourth of the cookie dough. (Slightly pry open the teeth on
the end of the pastry tip so that any small nut particles do not get
caught between the points as you pipe.)

5. Remove a chilled baking sheet from the refrigerator. Starting at
the left-hand side of the midsection of the baking sheet, pipe 1
3/4-inch wreaths about 2 inches apart, across the center of the
baking sheet. (This will enable you to pipe straight and even lines
across the baking sheet.) Continue piping until the bottom half of
the baking sheet is covered with piped cookies. Turn the baking sheet
180 degrees and continue piping wreaths onto the other half of the
baking sheet.

6. Lightly crush the remaining 1/2 cup of almonds in your hand.
Sprinkle the tops of the cookies with some of the crushed almonds and
colored sugar. Refrigerate the baking sheet for 10 to 15 minutes, or
until the piped cookie dough is firm. Pipe the rest of the cookie
dough onto the remaining chilled baking sheets. Sprinkle with the
crushed almonds and colored sugar and then refrigerate.

7. Bake the cookies one baking sheet at a time for 12 to 15 minutes,
or until lightly browned. Turn the baking sheet halfway through
baking for even browning. Using a metal pancake spatula, immediately
transfer the cookies to wire racks to cool. Store the cookies in an
airtight container at room temperature for up to three weeks.

Source: Chocolatier magazine, January 1991

Sallie (Austin) Krebs PREPARATION: 1 hour plus baking,
FROM:
chilling and cooling times.

Date: 06-02-95 (159) Fido:
From: Pat Stockett
Cooking

