Title: Cocido Madrileno (Madrid Stew)
Categories: Spanish, Soup/stew, Meats
Yield: 4 servings
1/2 lb Chick-peas
Salt
1    Chicken
1/2 lb Bacon, in 1 piece
Stock
2    Onions
2    Leeks
2    Carrots
2    Tomatoes; quartered
1 1/4 lb Small potatoes
1    Chorizo sausage; sliced
MMMMM-------------------------MEATBALLS------------------------------
1/2 lb Minced beef
1    Egg yolk
Salt
Black pepper; freshly
_ground
2 tb Breadcrumbs
1 tb Parsley; chopped
Oil
Soak the chick-peas overnight.

Put the chick-peas in a saucepan. Cover generously with water and
bring to the boil. Add salt to taste, partly cover, reduce the heat
and simmer for 2 1/2 hours.

Meanwhile, make the meatballs. In a bowl, combine the minced beef, egg
yolk, breadcrumbs, parsley and salt and pepper to taste. Mix the
ingredients well together and shape into small balls. Heat some oil
in a frying pan, add the meatballs and fry until they are brown all
over. Drain and set aside.

Put the chicken and the bacon in a large pan. Cover with stock and
bring to the boil. Reduce the heat, cover the pan and simmer for 30
minutes. Add the onions, leeks, carrots and tomatoes and continue
cooking for 20 minutes. Add the potatoes and cook for another 20
minutes. Add the chick-peas, chorizo and the meatballs and cook for a
final 10 minutes.

Lift out the chicken and the bacon. Strain the remaining contents of
the pan. The strained stock is served as soup. Slice the bacon, cut
the chicken into pieces and arrange in the centre of a large serving
dish with the meatballs and sliced chorizo. Surround the meat with
the chick-peas.

Arrange the vegetables around the chick-peas and serve.

"Cocidos are traditional Spanish stews which combine a mixture of
dried and fresh vegetables or a selection of different meats. This
cocido from Madrid is a mixture of "garbanzos" (chick-peas) and beef,
chicken, bacon and sausage."

Source: Jane Grigson (ed.): The World Atlas of Food. A Gourmet's
Guide to the Great Regional Dishes of the World. Mitchell Beazley
Publishers 1974. This edition: Spring Books, London 1988. ISBN 0 600
55929 7. Typed by Heiko Ebeling.
Submitted By HEIKO EBELING   On   05-28-95

