Title: Crawfish Pate
Categories: Seafood, Dips/spread, Appetizers, Cajun/creol
Yield: 10 servings
2 lb Crawfish tails - cooked
1 c  Leeks - well cleaned, thinly
-sliced
1 ts Salt
2 pn Nutmeg - grated
4 ds Tabasco - or to taste
3 c  Whipping cream
1/2 c  Green peas - canned
1 tb Lemon zest
3 tb Parsley - finely chopped
2    Egg whites - very cold
1 tb Tomato paste
1 tb Orange zest
Reserve 6 of the largest and most perfect crawfish tails. Combine
remaining tails with the sliced leeks in the bowl of a food processor
fitted with a steel blade.  Process until smooth.  Add salt, nutmeg,
Tabasco, and process again.  With motor running, dribble in the
chilled whipping cream in a slow steady stream.  Shut off processor,
taste and correct seasoning. Remove half the mixture to a bowl, cover
and refrigerate. Add peas to other half in processor and process
until smoooth. Transfer to a bowl, stir in lemon zest and parsley.
Cover and refrigerate. Return plain crawfish mixture to the processor
bowl.  Add egg white and tomato paste and orange zest. Process to
combine.  Lightly butter a 9x5x3 loaf pan. Spoon the plain crawfish
mixture into the poan. Arrange the reserved tails in a line down the
center of the pan. Press them lightly into the mixture. Spoon the
green pea- crawfish mixture over the other layer and smooth with a
spatula. Rap the pan firmly on the work surface several times to
eliminate any air bubbles.  Wrap the pan in aluminum foil and set in
a larger baking pan. Pour boiling water into the baking pan so that
it comes about halfway up the sides of the loaf pan.  Set all in the
center of a preheated 350 F oven and bake for 45 minutes, or until an
internal temperature of 130 F is reached.  Remove the loaf pan and
cool to room temperature. Refrigerate overnight. To unmold, remove
the aluminum foil and dip the pan into hot water 30 seconds or so.
Run a thin knife around the edge of the pate, set a large plate on
top and invert.  Remove the pan. TO SERVE COLD: Slice and arrange on
plates with crackers. TO SERVE HOT: Slice pate when cold, arrange
slices on a buttered baking sheet and cover with foil. Warm gently in
a 300 F oven for about 15 minutes. Spoon warm Tomato Coulis sauce (or
your choice) onto plates and center a slice of warmed pate on the
sauce. Serve immediately. Makes 10 to 12 servings.

Recipe from Carl J. Bonura, Jr., Metairie, Louisiana. Times-Picayune
Cooking Contest, 1984.

From: Michelle Bass

