Title: CRISPY ZUCCHINI PICKLES
Categories: Pickles, Vegetables, Can/preserv
Yield: 9 pints
6 lb Zucchini or
md Pickling cucumbers
1 lb Small white onions
2 lg Garlic cloves (optional)
1/3 c  Pure granulated salt
2    Trays ice cubes
4 c  Sugar
3 c  White vinegar
1 1/2 tb Mustard seed
1 1/2 ts Mixed pickling spice
1 ts Celery seed
1/2 ts Turmeric
MMMMM-------------------------EQUIPMENT------------------------------
9    Pint jars with self-sealing
--lids
Vegetable brush
Colander
Knife
lg Mixing bowl
Clean plastic dishpan or
--enamel kettle
lg Preserving kettle
Measuring cups & spoons
Wide-mouth funnel
Ladle
Boiling water bath
Wash the zucchini thoroughly and scrub with a brush.  Cut off both
ends and discard.  Slice the zucchini about 1/8-inch thick into a
large mixing bowl, dishpan or kettle.

Peel the onions and slice them 1/2-inch thick; add them to the mixing
bowl. Peel the garlic cloves; stick each one on a wooden pick (for
easy spotting and removal) and add them to the vegetables along with
the salt. Mix them well.

Cover the zucchini-onion mixture with ice cubes and set aside for 3
hours.

Wash the jars, rinse and keep them hot.  Prepare the lids as the
manufacturer directs.

Drain the vegetables very well.  Pick out garlic.

In large kettle, combine all the remaining ingredients and heat to
boiling. Add the sliced vegetables and heat over medium-high heat for
5 minutes.

Ladle into hot jars to within 1/2-inch of each top.

Spoon additional brine from the kettle to fill each jar to 1/2 inch
of the top if necessary.

Wipe the tops and threads of the jars with a damp cloth.

Put on the lids and screw bands as the manufacturer directs.  Process
in a boiling bath  for 6 minutes.  Start timing as soon as the jars
go into the boiling water.

When done, remove from boiling water by rack.  Do not touch lids or
pick up jars by tops.  Set overnight on a towel without letting the
jars touch.

Put away in pantry after 24 hours.

From the Collection of Candis Compton
Submitted By CANDIS COMPTON   On   05-26-95

