Title: Debbie's French Onion Soup
Categories: Soup/stew, Vegetables, Main dish, Cheese/eggs
Yield: 1 servings
4 tb Butter
3 tb Flour
2 tb Oil
1 ts Salt
2 lb Onions, peeled and thinly
-sliced
2 qt Beef broth*
1 lb Mozzarella cheese, shredded
-Croutons**
-Paprika (optional)
4    Ovenproof soup bowls or
-crocks
Soup:  In a heavy 4 to 5 quart saucepan, melt butter with oil over
medium heat.  Stir in onions and salt and cook, uncovered, stirring
occasionally for about 30 minutes, until onions are a rich brown
color. Sprinkle with flour and mix to blend; cook about 1 minute
more. Remove pan from heat. In a separate saucepan, prepare beef
stock, if necessary (see below). Add the beef broth to the onion
mixture; return the pan to the heat and bring to a boil. Reduce the
heat to low and simmer, partially covered, for about 45 minutes.
Taste for seasoning and add salt and pepper, if desired.

**Croutons:  While the soup is cooking, I usually just cut up a
sourdough roll into about 1" chunks, about bite size or a little
larger. I put them on a pie plate or small cookie sheet and place in
a preheated 250 degree oven for maybe about 15 minutes or so, until
crisp but not toasted on top. Then, I turn over and let dry for
another 10 minutes or so (you'll have to check them because I'm
guessing on times here). You can butter and/or season the bread
before drying but I don't do so myself.

To serve:  Place a few croutons in the bottom of each ovenproof soup
bowl. Add some mozzarella cheese on top. Ladle soup over cheese (the
croutons will rise).  Top with additional cheese. Place the soup
bowls on a cookie sheet (I line mine with foil for easier cleanup).
Sprinkle with a little paprika, if desired.  Place the cookie sheet
under the broiler and broil until the cheese is melted and very
lightly browned. Remove and serve immediately but beware those hot
bowls!

*Beef broth:  I make my broth with a quality beef base which you can
often find in your local grocery store or order by mail order.  The
broth MAKES this soup so don't use plain bouillon etc.  You can
certainly make your own broth from scratch, if so inclined.  I am
currently using one called "Superior Touch Better Than Bouillon" beef
base from Vons. I add 3 Tbsp. base to 2 quarts boiling water and stir
to mix, then add to the onions as described above.

Note:  My husband and I eat this as a full meal and it will serve
about 4 people that way, depending on the size of your bowls.

Serves:  4 Original Recipe from the kitchen of Debbie Carlson Posted
by: Debbie Carlson - Home Cooking

Date: 05 Apr 94
From: Debbie Carlson
Submitted By GAIL SHIPP   On   06-16-95

