Title: DEEP-FRIED LEMON CHICKEN
Categories: Poultry, Usenet
Yield: 2 servings
1    Green bell pepper
1    Red bell pepper
1 lb Chicken breast,
-boneless
MMMMM---------------------------BATTER--------------------------------
1/2 c  Flour
1/4 c  Cornstarch
1/4 ts Salt
1/2 ts Baking powder,
-double-acting
1/2 ts Vegetable oil
MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
1    Lemon
3 tb Sugar
1/2 c  Water
1 ts Cornstarch
2 ts Water
Parsley sprigs
Wash and seed the peppers.  Cut each one into strips about 2 x 1/4
inches. Cut the boneless chicken breast into strips about 3 x 1/2
inches.

Prepare the batter by mixing in a bowl the flour, cornstarch, baking
powder, salt, water and oil. Stir until smooth.

Cut half of the lemon into thin semicircular slices.  Prepare the
lemon sauce by squeezing the juice from the other half of the lemon
and combining in a cup with the sugar and water. Stir well.

Combine about 1 teaspoon cornstarch and about 2 teaspoon water in a
second cup.  This mixture will be used later to thicken the lemon
sauce.  Dip each piece of chicken in the batter and let the excess
drip back into the bowl.

Deep fry the chicken in small batches.  It is best to use an electric
deep fryer, but if this is not available, heat about 1 quart of
vegetable oil in a wok or deep pan until it is very hot. Then add
about 5 pieces of chicken at a time to the oil and cook, covered, for
about 5 minutes or until a golden brown crust forms. Check once a
minute to see if the pieces are sticking together, and if so,
separate them. After each batch is finished, set aside on a paper
towel to drain off the excess oil.

Cook the lemon sauce by pouring the lemon-sugar mixture into a
saucepan and bring to a boil.  Add the cornstarch-water mixture and
stir until thickened.

To please the eye as well as the palate, mix up the chicken and
colored pepper pieces and pile on a plate. Top with sprigs of parsley
and place the lemon slices around the outside of the plate. Put the
hot lemon sauce in a cup so that people can pour it over their
chicken just before eating, to keep it crispy.

Serve with rice.  Don't forget to start the rice so that it will be
done at the same time as the chicken.

A nice-looking dish for company.  The deep-fried chicken pieces can
also be served as party snacks instead of junk food.

NOTES:

*  Crispy chunks of chicken in sweet lemon sauce.  Yield:  Serves 2-3.

: Difficulty:  With an electric deep fryer, easy; without one,
moderate. : Time:  45 minutes.
: Precision:  Measure the batter ingredients.

: Andy Tanenbaum
: Dept.  of Math and Computer Sci., Vrije Universiteit, Amsterdam,
HOLLAND : ast@cs.vu.nl   seismo!mcvax!cs.vu.nl!ast

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

