Title: Food Myths
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM-------------------------FOOD MYTHS------------------------------

It's time to clean out your
mental cupboards regarding
nutrition and toss out some
of those common food myths.
:
:
:
:

NUTRITION TIP OF THE WEEK
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Yogurt-covered raisins are not a healthy choice: just two teaspoons
contains -- 134 calories and 5.5 grams of fat.

MYTH: Sugar-free means lower calories.

FACT: A sugar-free dessert or sweet may contain more calories than
one with sugar. While these products have less calories associated
with sweetening, they are still likely to contain fat and may contain
even more fat to compensate for the flavor lost without the sugar.

MYTH: We should eat lots of protein.

FACT: Most North Americans eat twice as much protein as our bodies
need and most of the common sources of protein (meat, poultry and
dairy) are high in fat and calories. Excess protein puts a strain on
your kidneys and liver.

MYTH: Salads are healthy food choices.

FACT: Salad greens and vegetables are full of valuable, low-fat
nutrients, but fatty additions such as oil, mayonnaise, sour cream,
high-fat yogurt, cheese, fried croutons, nuts, high-fat salad
dressings, bacon, olives, oil-packed sun dried tomatoes, artichokes
or roasted peppers, etc can topple the calorie and fat scales.

MYTH: Starch is fattening.

FACT: Starch (a.k.a. carbohydrates) are low in fat and high in fibre.
Wes hould all eat lots of grains and cereals. It's not the bread,
pasta pr rice that is fattening but the fatty stuff (butter, sauces,
oil, cheese, etc.) that we slather on it.

MYTH: You must eat dairy to get proper calcium in your diet.

FACT: Yes, dairy contains a lot of calcium, but it is not the only
good calcium source in a healthy diet. Good non-dairy sources include
tahini (sesame seed aste), salmon with bones, sardines, almonds,
tofu, etc. Moreover, a low protein diet improves calcium absorption.

MYTH: We should eat lots of olive oil because it lowers cholesterol.

FACT: There's growing eveidence that mon-unsaturated oils such a
olive and canonla oils mayhelp lower cholesterol levels in the blood.
But olive oil is still a fat. While you may want to substitute high
saturated fats like butter or tropical oils with olive oil, it's
still wise to use any fat in moderation.

From An Article: Food Myths from FOODsmarts by Madeleine Greey in
Toronto Star 28 May, 1995

Transcribed By: S. Lefkowitz
Date: 05-28-95 (164) Fido: Home
From: Sam Lefkowitz
Co

