Title: Grilled Peppers/Vidalia Onions/Endive (Cook's C.H.) 6/6+
Categories: Bbq/grill, Information, Vegetables
Yield: 6 servings
MMMMM----------------------GRILLED PEPPERS---------------------------
4    Yellow or/and red peppers
1    Clove garlic, thinly sliced
1    Shallot, minced (optional)
1 tb E.V. olive oil
Salt and pepper
MMMMM-----------------GRILLED VIDALIA ONIONS OR----------------------
-Belgian Endive
2 md Vidalia Onions or-
4 lg Belgian Endive
1 1/2 tb E.V. olive oil
Salt and freshly ground
-pepper
PEPPERS:

Grill peppers over a hot charcoal fire, turning often until the skin
has charred all over. The peppers will be soft all over and may become
difficult to handle as they char. Use a pair of short handled tongs to
facilitate careful turning of peppers. Frequent turning should keep
the peppers and their juices intact and help even charring so they
will peel easily with a minimum of the flesh lost.

When the peppers are completely charred, put them in a brown paper
bag and roll top edge tightly, or place in a metal or glass bowl,
cover with a plate and allow to sweat for 15 to 20 minutes. While the
peppers are sweating, place a cutting board in a baking pan that is
larger than the cutting board to catch all the juices when the
peppers are peeled.

Remove the peppers from the bag/bowl and place on cutting board. Prop
the nearest side of the cutting board up on the edge fo the baking
pan to allow juices to drain down into the pan. Pull core out of the
pepper and discard. Slice peppers in half and lay seed side down on
the cutting board. Using the dull edge of a knife, scrape the charred
skin off of the peppers and push to one side of cutting board, taking
care not to get it mixed in with the juices. carefully scrape out the
seeds and push to one side. Cut peppers into strips or dice as
desired.

Place in a bowl with the reserved juices and add remaining
ingrediants, seasoning to taste with the salt and pepper. Additional
ingredients might include fresh herbs, Balsamic vinegar, olives or
capers. Make a salad, garnish grilled or roasted fish or poultry, or
use plain.

GRILLED VIDALIA ONIONS OR BELGIAN ENDIVE:

Peel onions and/or remove outer leaves from the endive. Cut onion into
wedges, leaving the core in place so the pieces will not fall apart;
or cut the endive in half lengthwise. Brush the outer sides  of the
vegetables with olive oil and season with salt and pepper.

Place cut side down on prepared grill. Grill until tender, turning
periodically to insure even browning. Take care when turning so that
vegetables don't break apart as they cook.

This series of 6 recipes came from my neighboring kitchenware/gourmet
food distributor/cooking school. This class was in June of 95. All
the recipes here were used that night (3 hours) and after everything
was done we had a feast! Cook's is located at Victoria crossing in
St. Paul, MN.

MM format courtesy Mary Riemerman
Submitted By MARY RIEMERMAN   On   06-17-95

