Title: Grilled Mushroom Salad
Categories: Salads, Bbq/grill, Vegetables
Yield: 6 servings
1 1/2 lb Mushrooms, trimmed
-(portobello, shiitake
-porcini, oyster)
2 tb Balsamic vinegar
2 ts Roasted garlic puree or
1 ts Garlic, minced
1 tb Rosemary, chopped
2 tb Sage, chopped
1/2 c  Extra-virgin olive oil
Salt and pepper to taste
6 c  Mixed greens
MMMMM------------------MUSTARD-SEED VINAIGRETTE-----------------------
2 ts Whole mustard seeds
1 tb Dijon mustard
2 tb Rice wine vinegar
1/2 ts Thyme, chopped
2 tb Orange juice
1/4 c  Extra-virgin olive oil
Salt and pepper to taste
MMMMM-----------------------PARMESAN CHIPS----------------------------
1 c  Parmesan or aged Asiago
-cheese, freshly grated
For the vinaigrette: Heat the mustard seeds in a small, dry saut pan
until they're golden brown and fragrant and they just start to pop.
Transfer immediately to a small bowl. Add the Dijon mustard, vinegar,
thyme, and orange juice and whisk to combine. Whisk in the olive oil
a little at a time until the dressing is emulsified. Add salt and
pepper to taste.

For the Parmesan chips: Heat the oven to 350F. Line a baking sheet
with kitchen parchment or coat with a very thin film of oil (or use a
spray oil). Sprinkle about 1 tbs cheese in a thin layer to form 3"
rounds, at least 2" apart. Bake in the heated oven until the cheese
melts and forms lacy, g olden brown chips, 5-10 minutes. Carefully
remove chips from the paper, using a thin spatula, and lay them on a
rack to cool. If not using immediately, store them in an airtight
container for up to 2 days.

To assemble the salad: Arrange the mushrooms in a shallow dish. In a
bowl, whisk together the vinegar, garlic, rosemary, sage and oil.
Brush the mixture liberally onto the mushrooms; add salt and pepper
to taste and let marinate for at least 30 minutes.

Heat a grill or a ridged grill pan. Grill the mushrooms (curved side
down first) until softened and slightly charred, about 4 minutes per
side for large mushrooms like portobellos, 2 minutes per side for
smaller mushrooms. Divide the greens among 6 plates and drizzle with
the mustard vinaigrette. Cut the grilled mushrooms into thick slices,
if they're large, and arrange on the greens. Decorate each plate with
a couple of Parmesan chips and serve immediately.

Fine Cooking June-July 1995
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   06-09-95

