Title: Lemon Cream Tart From The Flowering Hearth
Categories: French, Pie/tart, Pastry
Yield: 6 servings
French Short Crust Pastry
2    Lemons
2 ts Arrowroot or cornstarch
2 tb Milk
2 lg Whole eggs
3    Egg yolks
1/2 c  Powdered sugar
6 tb Unsalted butter -- melted
MMMMM-----------------FRENCH SHORT CRUST PASTRY----------------------
1 3/4 c  Sifted flour
1 ts Salt
5 tb Unsalted butter -- cut in
sm Pieces
1    Egg
Ice water
1/4 c  Sugar
Roll out French Short Crust Pastry about 1/8 inch thick. Line lightly
buttered 9- or 10-inch tart pan with removable bottom. Lightly score
bottom of pie shell, line with foil, and fill with dried beans, rice,
pennies or pie weights. Bake at 375 degrees 6 minutes. Remove weights
and foil. Bake 5 to 7 minutes until tart lightly colors.

Meanwhile, prepare filling. Using potato peeler or zester, remove
zest of 2 lemons. Chop finely and reserve in small bowl. Squeeze 2
lemons over zest. In another small bowl, blend arrowroot and milk and
reserve. In medium mixing bowl, beat whole eggs and yolks with whisk
until frothy. Add powdered sugar and continue beating until smooth.
Beat in lemon juice and zest, arrowroot mixture and melted butter.

Fill tart shell with mixture, reduce oven to 350 degrees and bake tart
until set and top is faintly brown, about 25 to 35 minutes. Serve hot
or cold.

FRENCH SHORT CRUST PASTRY - In bowl mix flour and salt. Pour into
pile in center of heavy board. Make well in center of flour and put
in butter, egg, 2/3 cup ice water and sugar dissolved in it. Quickly
and lightly blend flour into butter and egg, rubbing between tips of
fingers. As more liquid is needed, add teaspoon ice water, but keep
to minimum. Dough should not be wet. As soon as dough will stick
together, roll into ball and set aside.

For food processor method, in work bowl fitted with steel blade,
combine flour, salt and sugar. Distribute pieces of butter over top
and add egg yolk. Pulse until mixture forms cornmeal like pieces.
With motor running, slowly add water just until dough forms ball that
holds together.

Clean and lightly flour heavy board and begin kneading by pushing and
stretching dough into flat round using heel of hand. Roll up and
stretch again.

Repeat 3 times until dough is satiny. Roll dough into ball, wrap in
wax paper or plastic wrap. Refrigerate at least 3 hours. Makes 1 (9-
or 10-inch) tart shell.

Each serving contains about: 457 calories; 435 mg sodium; 300 mg
cholesterol; 27 grams fat; 47 grams carbohydrates; 9 grams protein;
0.10 gram fiber.

Source: This, from "Auberge of the Flowering Hearth", 1973, by Roy
Andries de Groot, is a terrific, light, crisp tart. Notice the
old-fashioned technique of smearing the dough across the pastry board
using the heel of your hand. Called fraiser in French, it produces a
tight, cookie-like rich crust that holds the liquid filling well.
Presented by: Russ Parsons, Times Deputy Food Editor, L.A. Times
article, "Two Pioneering Palates", 2/2/95, page H9.

:
Recipe By

Date: 06-16-95 (159) Fido:
From: Dan Klepach
Cooking

