Title: MAKING SOAP I
Categories: Information
Yield: 2 servings
No Ingredients Found
You can add emolients to soap for their desirable qualities. Such
ingredients include cold cream, lanolin, cocoa butter, or even
powdered oatmeal.  Add emolients in appropriate amounts, so as to not
affect the soapmaking process.  Also, you should add most emolients
after the soap has saponified while it is still cooling, Remember to
always add fragrances as the very last ingredient.

You can also add special ingredients to soap, such as aloe vera,
vitamin E, wheat germ oil, jojoba oil, vitamins A and D, and baking
soda. Do not add cornstarch to soap.  Cornstarch can leave a thin
film on your skin that might attract bacteria.  Do not put in your
soap any ingredients that might be poisonous. Poisons can be absorbed
through the skin. Some people like to add buttermilk (in liquid or
powder form) to their homemade soaps; others like to add lemon juice.
Coconut oil is a favorite ingredient for people who really like suds.
Do not add any ingredient that you are allergic to unless you do not
plan to use the soap yourself. INGREDIENTS There are only three
ingredients essential to making soap: grease (fat), lye and water.
Other ingredients are added to give certain desired qualities to the
soap. Although soap making is fairly simple to do, it is critical
that you follow instructions carefully.  Lye is a caustic substance.
If mishandled, it can burn skin or even cause blindness.  Add lye
only to COLD WATER. Never add lye to hot water, because it might
cause a violent chemical reaction. Most commercial lye is either a
caustic soda, such as sodium hydroxide, or a mineral salt known as
potassium hydroxide.  Hard soaps are made with sodium hydroxide or
caustic soda;  soft soaps are made with potassium hydroxide. Lye is
commercially available with instructions for its use on the can. You
also can make your own lye water by soaking a bucket of wood ashes
overnight.  The water that you pour off in the morning will be lye
water. This is the way colonials made their soap. Use only wood
ashes. Do not try to make lye water from coal or coke ashes. Coal
ashes contain chemicals that might irritate or damage the skin. Some
people add salt to help curdle the soap, but it is not necessary. You
can add baking soda, or sodium bicarbonate, to soap. It is an
inexpensive ingredient that contributes desirable qualities,
including deodorizing and cleansing.

TO ALL  Submitted By ALISON SCHUCHS  SUBJ SOAP RECEPI WANTED    On
06-13-95

