Title: Mi Krob -- Thai Crispy Noodles
Categories: Thai, Pasta, Main dish
Yield: 4 servings
1 lb Chinese rice noodles
- or vermicelli
1 sm Onion, finely chopped
5    Garlic cloves; chopped
1/2    Yellow bean cake, thinly
- sliced (optional)
8 oz Lean pork, thinly sliced
1 lb Chicken meat, thinly sliced
4 lg Prawns, shelled, thin sliced
2 1/2 tb Sugar
7 1/2 tb Vinegar
5 tb Soy sauce *
Lime or lemon juice (little)
4    Chicken or duck eggs
Fresh bean sprouts,
- as desired
Pork fat for deep frying
* if possible fish soy or add anchovy essence to regular soy sauce.
(comment from the Shipp's -- use Thai Fish sauce here )

This is a dish of rice noodles fried until crisp and garnished
generously with a mixture of prawns, pork and vegetables.

Scald the noodles in rapidly boiling water, drain and leave to dry
out on a platter.  Drying takes about 30 minutes.

In a large deep frying pan put plenty of pork fat, let it cook until
hot but not too hot.  Fry the noodles until they are crisp and light
brown. Take from the hot fat and put aside to drain.

Pour out most of the fat from the pan, leaving only enough to cook the
remaining ingredients.  First add the onion and garlic, stir well and
when these are brown add the bean cake, pork, chicken and prawns.
Continue stirring until these ingredients are cooked.  Add the sugar,
vinegar, soy sauce and juice and stir all the while.  When all this
is cooked the result should be salty, sweet and sour.  Now break in
the eggs, stir and cook until these become a thick layer.  Slowly add
the fried noodles and bean sprouts and stir until all are well mixed
together.

This is *mi krob*.  It is garnished with finely chopped fresh
coriander, finely chopped chives, chopped red chillies, and grated
orange peel, which is the nearest we can get to the local *soma*, a
tiny bitter orange like the *kumquat*.  Instead of cooking the bean
sprouts with the noodles, they can be cooked separately and used as a
garnish.

Source:  "Far Eastern Cookery", Robin Howe, 1969, International Wine
and Food Society, London. Typed by Dale & Gail Shipp, Columbia Md.
Submitted By DALE SHIPP   On   06-16-95

