Title: Oaxacan Yellow Mole (Directions)
Categories: Poultry, Tex/mexican
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM-------------------------DIRECTIONS------------------------------
Put the chicken pieces into a pan with the onion, garlic, salt, and
water to cover.  Bring to a simmer and continue simmering until just
tender - about 25 minutes.  Strain, reserving the broth.

Meanwhile, remove the stems, if any, from the dried chiles, slit them
open, and remove seeds and veins (save seeds for another purpose,
discard the veins.) Toast the chiles briefly on each side or until
the inside flesh turns a tobacco color.  Rinse in cold water, cover
with hot water, and set aside to soak for about 20 minutes.

While the chikcen is cooking and the chiles are soaking, cover the
chayote and potatoes with salted boiling water, bring to a boil
again, and cook about 10 minutes.  Add the green beans and continue
cooking for about 5 minutes longer.  The vegetables should still be
al dente since they will finish cooking the the stew.  Strain,
reserving the cooking water.

Strain the chiles, putting half the water into a blender jar and
reserving the rest.  Add the peeled garlic, onion, allspice, cloves,
cumin, oregano, and tomate verde; blend until smooth.  Gradually add
the chiles with the rest of the soaking water and continue to blend
as smoothly as ossible. Heat the lard in a heavy pan or daute pan.
Add the chile sauce (through a fine strainer if there are still
pieces of chile skins left whole) and cook over fairly high heat,
stirring and scraping the bottom of the pan, for about 8 to 10
minutes.  Put 1 1/2 cups of the reserved chicken broth into the
blender jar, add the masa, and blend until smooth.  Stir the massa
into the cooking sauce with 2 more cups of the broth and cook over
medium heat, stirring and scraping, until the sauce beings to thicken.

Add 1 1/2 more cups of the broth, the water in which the vegetables
were cooked, and the cooked chicken and vegetables; bring to a simmer
and adjust seasoning.  Add the chochoyotes and cilantro and cook
until the former are done - about 15 to 20 minutes.  Serve in shallow
bowls, with hot corn tortillas and a dish of rajas con limon and
onion served separately.

:
Recipe By

Date: 06-16-95 (164) Fido: Home
From: Dan Klepach
Co

