Title: PEANUT NOODLES
Categories: Pasta, Main dish, Usenet
Yield: 4 servings
1 lb Chinese-style noodles,
-fresh
1/2 tb Garlic chili paste
2 tb Peanut butter, good
-(without added sugar)
1 tb Nam pla (fermented
-fish sauce)
1/2 c  Water
2    Scallion stalks, chopped
Boil a lot of water for the noodles; this is the most time-consuming
step.

Rinse and trim scallions, then slice thinly.  In a small mixing bowl,
combine peanut butter and chili paste with a fork. Mix thoroughly. Add
water to the peanut mixture. This is tricky, since peanut butter and
water do not want to mix. Start with a tiny bit of water, mix
thoroughly until it is homogeneous, and then add some more water. You
can begin to add larger quantities of water as the sauce gets
thinner. The water and peanut butter really will mix, if you are
patient.

Continue adding water until the sauce has the consistency you want; I
make it about the consistency of ketchup. Stir in the nam pla.

Once the pot of water is boiling, cook the noodles until they are just
done, and not mushy. Drain noodles and immediately mix in the sauce.
Toss until the noodles are evenly coated. Garnish with scallions and
serve.

NOTES:

*  Chinese-style noodles with a spicy peanut sauce -- This recipe is
not authentic Chinese; it was created by combining readily available
ingredients and double-checking against a Satay recipe. It's close to
a Satay sauce, but not quite the same thing. It's also similar to a
recipe in "The Enchanted Broccoli Forest," by Mollie Katzen.

*  The ingredients are readily available at oriental grocery stores.
Substitute soy sauce if you can't find nam pla.  For fresh noodles,
you can substitute several packages of ramen noodles, discarding
sauce powders.

*  This basic recipe may be varied by modifying quantities.  Vary the
chili paste to control hotness, and the nam pla to control saltiness
(but the sauce will taste saltier before mixing with the noodles). If
you use this as the main dish of a meal, it serves only two. This
will keep for at least a week in the refrigerator.

*  Serve with a good beer; it's too spicy for most wines.

: Difficulty:  easy.
: Time:  5 minutes, plus waiting for the water to boil.
: Precision:  No need to measure.

: Jeffrey Mogul
: Digital Equipment Corp., Western Research Lab, Palo Alto,
California, USA : mogul@decwrl.dec.com   decwrl!mogul

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

