Title: Pumpkin Gnocchi
Categories: Vegetables, Fatfree
Yield: 1 servings
1 c  Canned pumpkin
2    Egg whites
1 ea Flour
Whisk together the pumpkin and the egg whites until blended.  Then add
flour and stir until the dough is thick enough to be turned out onto a
large cutting board or clean table top.  Douse with more flour, and
work/knead it into the dough.  When fully incorporated add more flour
and repeat.  Keep adding flour and kneading until the dough can hold
its own shape.  It will still be a little bit sticky.

At this stage, I chilled the dough overnight, but I have no idea if
doing so was essential to the success of my gnocchi--I was just
starting to feel really guilty about those essays I hadn't yet graded.

When you're ready to eat the gnocchi, get a pot of boiling water
going on the stove.  Generously flour your board or tabletop and
hands.  Cut the dough into fourths and roll each fourth into a
cylinder, and slice off gnocchi-sized chunks.  I have to be vague
about measurements because I was having a hard time with my cylinder
rolling technique and at one point just hacked the cylinder in two
lengthwise to speed things along. I aimed for 1/2-inch chunks, but
some were bigger than that.  Drop into salted boiling water.  As they
rise to the surface, remove them with a slotted spoon, shake off
excess water, and put them on a serving plate.

Having once watched Martha Stewart shape gnocchi on TV, I tried to
emulate her technique of pressing them gently against the tines of a
form before dropping them in the water for about half of my gnocchi.
They turned out just as ugly as the ones I more carelessly dropped in
the water without shaping.  YM(and skill)MV.

The recipe provided me with two substantial dinners for myself, once I
topped the gnocchi with some leftover TVP chili.

Source: original

Posted by Kirstin Reade Wilcox <krw3@columbia.edu> to the Fatfree
Digest [Volume 17 Issue 10] Apr. 11, 1995.

Individual recipes copyrighted by originator. FATFREE Recipe
collections copyrighted by Michelle Dick 1995. Formatted by Sue Smith,
SueSmith9@aol.com using MMCONV. Archived through kindness of Karen
Mintzias, km@salata.com and Mark Alexander, Mark@alexr.demon.co.uk.

1.80รก

