Title: Quick Tips - August 1995
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 info
MMMMM-----------------------NO INGREDIENTS----------------------------
Protecting Pie Crust Rims

1. Cut the center out of a disposable foil pie plate.

2. Place the trimmed pie plate, top side down, over the rim of the
crust during baking.

Removing Stuffing Easily

1. Make a cheesecloth bag by folding a piece of cheesecloth in half
and sewing up the two sides. To keep the top edge from fraying,
machine-hem along the bag top, if you like. Line the poultry cavity
with the bag.

2. Fill the bag three-quarters full with the stuffing, then roast the
bird as usual.

3. When the bird is done, simply remove the bag from the cavity. Since
cheesecloth is permeable, the stuffing will have absorbed the juices
of the bird, and you will have a clean carcass to use for soup or
stock.

Giving Your Cake a Silky Look

1. Frost the side and top of the cake and smooth out with a spatula as
usual.

2. Use a hair dryer to "blow-dry" the frosted surfaces of the cake.
The slight melting of the frosting gives it that smooth, lustrous
appearance.

Cleaning Coffee Grinders

Use a pastry brush or one-inch paintbrush to clean coffee grinders.
The brush can get around the metal blade in a blade grinder and also
get the corners of a mill grinder.

Making Steamed Shrimp Go Further

1. Peel and devein the shrimp, then halve them length and steam.

2. The cooked shrimp will curl into spirals and make for an attractive
presentation.

Making Decorative Citrus Spirals

1. Before juicing citrus, use a citrus zester to score around the
fruit and make a long strip of curly peel.

2. Tape the end of the strip of zest to one end of a skewer or plastic
drinking straw.

3. Wrap the citrus zest tightly around the rest of the skewer or
straw, taping it at the other end.

4. Place the wrapped zest in the freezer. When serving lemonade,
sangria, or other fruit drinks, remove the frozen spiraled zest from
the skewer or straw, discard the tape, and use as a quick garnish.

Moistening Pie Dough

When making pie crust, it is often difficult to follow precisely the
instructions to "sprinkle water evenly over the flour mixture 1
tablespoon at a time." Try this:

1. Pour the entire recommended amount of water into a small spray
bottle and spray as needed onto the flour mixture.

2. This allows you to use the minimum amount of water and distribute
it evenly with little effort, stopping as soon as the dough holds
together.

Preparing Fava Beans

When buying fava beans, look for pods that are bright green in color,
with no signs of decay. Unlike green beans, which are best when
crisp, the pods of fava beans should be soft; crispness is a sign of
dried-out beans.

1. Remove the beans from the cushiony, foamlike outer pod.

2. The beans will be covered with a very pale green inner sheath.
Although edible, this sheath is quite bitter in all but the youngest
beans. Parboil the beans and peel the sheath off with a paring knife.

Measuring Extracts

When measuring out vanilla extract or other flavorings use a clean,
plastic, measured dropper. This is not only an accurate way of
measuring small amounts of liquid; it also avoids drips that are
formed by pouring directly out of the bottle.

Cook's Illustrated August 1995
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   06-19-95

