Title: Rival Automatic Steamer And Rice Cooker Instructions
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM-----------------KNOW AND USE YOUR STEAMER----------------------
KNOW YOUR STEAMER

High-Domed Cover Provides a snug seal, yet allows ample food stacking
to 3-1/2 inches.

Rice Bowl Deep container is used to cook rice (8 cup capacity) or
other dishes that have a sauce or use liquid.

Outer Water Reservoir Liquid draining from cooked food will collect
here. Because this area is not heated, food particles and liquids
cannot scorch.

Steamer Basket A shallow container with slots allows excess water to
drain away. Use to steam vegetables, fish, shellfish or other dishes
without a sauce. Oval shape accommodates hard to fit foods.

Inner Water Reservoir and Heating Well Water is heated and turns to
team which circulates around the food. the amount of water used
determines the cooking time.

Indicator Light Glows when unit is operating. Goes out to indicate
food is done. If the unit has turned off and is still plugged in, the
indicator light and the steamer may begin to cycle on and off. Unplug
after cooking.

TO USE 1. Pour specified amount of water into inner water reservoir,
covering heating well.

2. Place vegetables, fish, or other foods WITHOUT sauce or liquid, in
steamer basket.
Place rice, or other foods WITH sauce or liquid in Rice Bowl.
Note: Steamer basket and Rice Bowl cannot be used at the same time.

3. Cover. Plug into 120V AC wall outlet. When water boils dry, food
is done and light will go out. Unplug after food is cooked.

IMPORTANT POINTS Polished or waxed surfaces:
Avoid placing unit on any surface or under any wall cabinet that
can be marred by steam or water droplets.

Use Clean Water Only in inner water reservoir and heating well. Do
not use wine, broth or other liquids. Do not add salt, pepper or
other seasonings to this water.

CAUTION: The appliance and accumulated steam will be hot. Using hot
pad, open cover CAREFULLY to let steam escape safely; hold cover over
unit to let moisture drop into steamer. Use hot pads to lift basket
or bowl.

Brush or wipe heating well with white household vinegar after each
use. See below for complete cleaning information.

Do not leave unattended as the cooking time is short.
A bit of water may remain in the inner water reservoir even when
heating well boils dry. This is normal.

TO CLEAN Rice Bowl, Steamer Basket and Cover
Wash in hot, soapy water, rinse and dry. Or wash on top rack of
dishwasher. Do not use abrasive cleaners.

Heating Base
Scrub heating well with white household vinegar after each use.
This will prevent caldium or other mineral deposits from collecting.
If mineral deposits are allowed to accumulate, a "tea kettle whistle"
will result and, in extreme cases, the unit could turn off before the
food is cooked.
If a heavy mineral deposit has collected, pour 2 tablespoons of
liquid Dip_it 2 (tm) into the heating well. Allow to stand about 15
minutes. Brush and rise thoroughly.
Wash both reservoirs with soapy water, rinse and dry. A small brush
is handy when washing base.

Source: Rival Automatic Steamer and Rice Cooker instruction booklet
Typos by Dorothy Flatman 1995
Submitted By DOROTHY FLATMAN   On   06-16-95

