Title: Roast Tenderloin of Beef with Mustard Sauce
Categories: Meats, Main dish, Salsa/sauce
Yield: 6 servings
2 ts Soy sauce
2 1/2 lb Beef tenderloin
1 ts Freshly ground pepper
1 tb Olive oil - extra-virgin
1 ea Clove garlic - minced
3 ea Medium shallots - minced
1/3 c  Red wine - dry (use a good
-wine!)
1 1/2 tb Dijon mustard
1/4 c  Whipping cream - PLUS 1
-tablespoon
2 tb Unsalted butter
1.  Rub the soy sauce all over the beef and let sit for 30 minutes.
Season with the pepper. 2. Meanwhile, preheat the oven to 450F. In a
large, heavy ovenproof skillet, preferably cast iron, heat the oil
over high heat. Add the beef and cook until well browned on all
sides, about 6 minutes. 3. Transfer the pan to the oven and roast the
tenderloin for about 20 minutes, turning once, until the internal
temperature reads 120F. on a meat thermometer for rare.  Transfer the
meat to a cutting board, cover loosely with aluminum foil and let sit
for 10 minutes. 4. Meanwhile, pour off any fat from the skillet.  Add
the garlic and shallots and cook over moderately low heat, stirring,
until lightly browned, about 2 minutes. Pour in the wine, increase
the heat to high and simmer for 1 minute. Stir in the mustard, broth
and cream and bring to a boil. Reduce the heat to moderate and simmer
until the sauce has reduced to 1 cup and is thick enough to lightly
coat the back of a spoon, about 6 minutes. Reduce the heat to low and
stir in the butter until incorporated. 5. Using a sharp knife, cut
the meat into 12 slices.  Arrange the meat on plates or a platter,
spoon the mustard sauce on top and serve hot.

Serves 6.

Recipe from Lee Bailey, courtesy of Food & Wine, December, 1990.

Note from Lee:  The sauce has a very mild mustard flavor, so if you
like a strong mustard taste, feel free to add more.  He also suggests
a Barolo with the tenderloin to complement the mustard and soy sauce
flavors. And he served this with Garlic Mashed Potatoes.

per serving:
Approx. Cook Time: Cholesterol per
Calories
grams per serving:
serving: Marks:

Submitted By MICHELLE BASS   On   06-08-95

