Title: Roast Filet of Beef with Mushroom-Tarragon Sauce
Categories: Meats, Main dish, Holiday
Yield: 4 servings
2 tb Olive oil
1 3/4 lb Filet of beef (tenderloin)
-- trimmed, tied
1/4 ea Stick butter (2
-tablespoons)
1/4 c  Minced shallots
1/2 lb Mushrooms - sliced
-[imported or cultivated]
1 tb Minced fresh tarragon OR 1
-teaspoon dried
1/2 ts Salt
1/4 c  Dry red wine [use a good
-wine here]
1 1/4 c  Beef stock OR canned broth
1 1/2 tb Cornstarch
Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 400F.  Heat oil in
heavy large skillet over high heat.  Pat beef dry.  Add beef to
skillet and brown on all sides, turning frequently, about 7 minutes.
Place rack in roasting pan.  Transfer beef to rack (do not clean
skillet). Roast beef to desired doneness or until meat thermometer
inserted into center registers 125F for rare, about 25 minutes.
Meanwhile, pour oil from skillet. Add butter to same skillet and melt
over medium-low heat. Add shallots; saute 1 minute. Add mushrooms,
tarragon and salt. Increase heat to medium, cover and cook until
mushrooms release juices, stirring once or twice, about 6 minutes.
Add wine and bring to boil.  Boil uncovered until almost no liquid
remains, about 2 minutes.  Mix in 1 cup stock.    Stir cornstarch
with remaining 1/4 cup stock in small bowl.  Add cornstarch mixture
to mushroom sauce and bring to boil, stirring constantly. Boil until
thickened, about 1 minute. Remove strings from beef.   Cut beef into
1/2-inch thick slices. Overlap beef on plates.   Spoon sauce over and
serve.

4 servings.

Note:  Start off the meal with a little luxury:  true French
Champagne and oysters on the half shell.  For maximum flavor and
tenderness, purchase well-aged beef if you can get it.  Use any type
of mushroom you like -- crimini, porcini, shiitake, simple cultivated
ones -- or try a mixture. Pour a dry red Bordeaux to go along with
the beef. Note from me: A nice Petite Sirah would be wonderful!

Serve with Scalloped Potatoes with Cream and Broccoli with
Lemon-Garlic Crumbs. Source: Bon Appetit - November, 1993

per serving:
Approx. Cook Time: Cholesterol per
Calories
grams per serving:
serving: Marks:

Submitted By MICHELLE BASS   On   06-08-95

