Title: Saffron Rice Pilaf w/ Spinach
Categories: Nuts/grains, Meats, Main dish
Yield: 6 servings
3 c  Basmati rice
3 c  Plain low-fat yogurt
2 ts Saffron threads  **
2 cl Garlic; peeled & crushed
.  w/ 1 tsp salt
1/2 ts Paprika
1/4 ts Black pepper
1/4 ts Cinnamon
2 lb Lamb; cubed
2 lb Spinach; fresh, washed
3 lg Onions; thinly sliced
3/4 c  Butter  (divided use)
2 tb Salt
1    Egg  *or* 3 egg yolks
**  dissolve the saffron in 1/4 cup HOT water  (divided use)

Rinse the rice in warm water until the water runs clear.  (The rice
will be fluffier if soaked in salted water for 2 hours or longer.)
Drain.

Combine the yogurt with one-half the saffron water, the garlic-salt
mixture, paprika, pepper and cinnamon.  Marinate the meat in this
mixture for 2 to 24 hours, refrigerated.

Transfer the meat to a saucepan, reserving the marinade.  Add enough
water to cover and simmer -- 1 1/2 hours for the lamb, or 40 minutes
for chicken

Meanwhile, coarsely chop the spinach and steam for 8 minutes.

Brown the onions in 3 Tbsp butter.  Add the spinach.  Set aside.

Preheat the oven to 325øF.  Bring 8 cups of water and 2 Tbsp salt to
a boil in a large non-stick pot.  Add the drained rice and boil 6 to
8 minutes, until softened.  Drain in a colander and lightly rinse
with lukewarm water.

Combine the reserved yogurt marinade, egg (or egg yolks) and remaining
saffron water with approximately 1 cup of cooked rice, mixing well.

Melt the remaining butter in a large deep ovenproof baking dish.
Spread the yogurt-rice mixture in a thin layer.  Cover with half of
the remaining cooked rice.  Place the pieces of meat over the rice;
layer with spinach. Top with remaining rice.  Drizzle the last of the
remaining saffron water over the rice.  Cover.  Bake for 2 to 2 1/2
hours or until the crust is golden brown.  (If you don't want the
thick crispy layer prized by Persians, bake for only 1 hour.)

To unmold, keep the dish covered and allow to cool on a damp towel
for 10 to 15 minutes.  Loosen the rice around the edge of the dish
with the point of a knife.  Cover with a large serving dish and turn
upside down. Quickly ....  (He he he)

Nutritional information: per serving:  938 calories; 41g fat; 1,954mg
sodium; 207mg cholesterol

**  Dallas Morning News - Food section - 7 June 1995  ** Posted by
The WEE Scot  --  Paul MacGregor
Submitted By PAUL MACGREGOR   On   06-14-95

