Title: Settlement Cook Book
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM------------------THE SETTLEMENT COOK BOOK-----------------------
The Settlement is unique among the basic cookbooks, in the way it has
developed as a nonprofit philanthropic organization. It all started in
Milwaukee, Wisconsin, around the turn of the century. At that time
there were vast migrations of people from Europe, seeking freedom and
a better life, and Milwaukee received its share of these newcomers.To
help them learn about American life and American ways, classes in
English and citizenship, sewing and cooking were organized and held
in a neighbourhood house called "The Settlement". Mrs. Simon Kander,
an enthusiastic Settlement volunteer was in charge of the coooking
classes. She regretted that the eager students had to spend so much
time laboriously copying down instructions and recipes from the
blackboard. Then she had a brilliant idea. Why not print the lessons
and recipes? Her volunteer ladies' committee thoroughly approved the
plan. But the conservative gentlemen of the Settlement board refused
to authorize the $18 required. They suggested the ladies have the
work done on their own, and laughingly offered to "share in any
profits from your little venture". The ladies were undaunted, and
with the help of a friendly printer, advertisements were solicited to
defray expenses, and the financial crisis was solved. In fact, a more
ambitious book became possible. Mrs. Kander collected treasured
recipes from the committee and their friends (many of them noted
Milwaukee hostesses), as well as favorite European dishes of the
students and their families, even recipes from noted chefs in this
country and abroad. Mrs. Kander was an accomplished cook, yet her
students were not. She realized that a "pinch" of this or that must
be converted into accurate measurements, and the recipes expressed in
the simplest and clearest language. Perhaps her greatest contribution
++ and a principle that continues to be observed ++was her insistence
that every recipe be tested, not once but many times, by committee
members in their own kitchens. (Mr. Kander once ordered her to "cut
that pancake out of the bill of fare for at least a week"; how many
other long-suffering families deserve our thanks.) Finally in April
1901, one thousand copies of a slim 174-page book appeared: The Way
To A Man's Heart...The Settlement Cook Book. Nobody dreamed it would
eventually sell a million and a half copies in all its revised and
expanded editions to date. This little book was a hit from the start.
It was divided about equally between simple recipes for beginning
cooks and more elaborate recipes for experienced cooks. Seemingly it
pleased both groups, and copies of the first edition that were not
needed for the cooking classes were quickly sold by a Milwaukeee
merchant for fifty cents each. The demand for more copies led to
another edition in 1903. It must have given Mrs. Kander and her
committee great satisfaction when proceeds of the sale of the first
two editions were graciously accepted by the board to purchase a site
for a new Settlement House. In 1909 the cook book was able to provide
the buildong for the new site. Bythis time the ladies, looking into
the future, had formed the Settlement Cook Book Company, a
philanthropic corporation expressly concerned with educational and
recreational projects. Over the years, our cook book has benefited
our community in many ways. We assisted in the establishment of the
first nursery school in Milwaukee. We have contributed scholarship
aid to students. The Settlement House and its successor have received
financial for over sixty years. And the general community has
benefited from contributions to many undertakings. We are proud to be
a part of this nonprofit organization, and we think of those of you
who use our cook book as our partners in these undertakings. From:
The Settlement Cook Book: The Way To A Man's Hear Produced By: The
Settlement Cook Book Co. 1965 Transcribed By: S. Lefkowitz

Submitted By SAM LEFKOWITZ   On   06-26-95

