Title: Smoked And Rubbed Prime Rib Roast`
Categories: Meats, Bbq/grill, Cowboy
Yield: 8 servings
1    (6 lb) Boneless Rib Roast
3 c  Mesquite Chips *
MMMMM----------------------COOKIE'S DRY RUB---------------------------
2 tb Paprika, Sweet Hungarian
1 tb Garlic Salt
1 ts Pepper -- freshly ground
1 ts Dried Oregano
1 ts Ground Cumin
1/2 ts Onion Powder
1/4 ts Ground Hot Red (Cayenne)
-Pepper
* Soak mesquite chips in water for at least 30 mins and drain well.

1. Make the dry rub: In a small bowl, combine all the ingredients.
Makes about 1/4 cup.

2. Using a sharp knife, cut off the fat "cap: from the roast in one
piece. Cut just where the fat is attached to the meat, trimming off
as little meat as possible. Reserve the fat cap. Rub the roast all
over with 2 Tbs of the dry rub (reserve the remaining dry rub for
another use). Replace the fat cap and tie it back onto the roast with
kitchen twine. (The roast can be prepared up to 6 hrs ahead, covered,
and refrigerated.)

3. Place a heatproof pan, approximately the same length and width as
the roast (disposable aluminum foil pans work well), on one side of
the bottom of a charcoal grill. Fill the pan with 1 inch of water.
Bank charcoal on the empty side and make a hot fire. 4. Place the
roast, fat side up, on a lightly oiled grill over the pan. Sprinkle
the coals with a handful of drained mesquite chips and cover the
grill immediately. Cook until a meat thermometer inserted in the
thickest part of the meat reads 125 F for medium-rare meat, 2 to 2
1/2 hrs, allowing 20 mins per lb. (Allow about 25 mins for medium
meat, and about 30 mins for well-done.) About every 45 mins, add more
hot coals and wood chips as needed to maintain an even grill
temperature. 5. Let the roast stand for 10 mins before removing the
string and fat. Carve and serve immediately.

NOTE: To make on a gas grill, place a disposable aluminum foil pan on
one side of the grill and fill the pan with 1/2 inch of water. Turn
the opposite side of the grill on and heat to medium. (Do not ignite
the side of the grill with the pan.) Wrap handfuls of the soaked
chips in heavy-duty aluminum foil and pierce the foil all over. Place
the roast over the pan and place a foil packet of chips directly onto
the heating unit or lava rocks. Cook the meat until a meat
thermometer reads 125 F for medium-rare meat, 2 to 2 1/2 hrs,
allowing about 20 mins per lb. About every 30 mins, replace the foil
packet with a fresh one to maintain a smoky interior.

Makes 8 to 10 servings from National Cowboy Hall of Fame of Oklahoma
City, OK.

: National Cowboy Hall of Fame Chuck Wagon Cookbook
Recipe By

Date: 06-09-95 (85) Cooking
From: Dan Klepach

