Title: Smorgasbord
Categories: Appetizers, Information
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM------------------------SMORGASBORD-----------------------------
This Scandinavian specialty is deservedly popular as a modern way of
entertaining, particularly for large groups, since it reduces
last-minute service to a minimum. Platters should be prepared in
advance and covered with foil or plastic wrap until serving time. The
size of the spread depends on the use for which it is intended. It
may be small and simple for before-dinner service, elaborate and
elegant for a cocktail party, or lavish and generous, with emphasis
on hearty dishes, when it is served as a meal. The basic ingredients
of the smorgasbord are always fish, meat, cheese, salads, and
relishes, a few hot dishes, always includingmeat balls, baked beans,
and boiled potatoes, and usually dark-grained Scandinavian breads.
Fish for smorgasbord may include pickled and brined herring and
anchovies in all th emany available styles. Smoked eel, salmon, carp
and similar delicacies are available at specialty shops, and smoked
oysters, mussels and clams come in cans and jars and are more
generally distributed. Fresh boiled shrimp and lobster, with
dill-flavored sauces are popular. The cold meats may include roast
pork, beef and tongue or ham, or cold cuts as desired. Meat and fish
are frequently incorporated into salad mixtures, as well. An aspic
salad is usually selected, in addition to simple greens, pickled
beets, celery hearts, radishes, green onions, canned artichokes and
other salad vegetables. Tiny meat balls in a tart creamy sauce and
fish balls are the traditional hot dishes, but any savory meat or
fish may be substituted. Scandinavian ligonberry jelly, or American
cranberry sauce or jelly, whichit resembles, is always served on the
smorgasbord. When the smorgasbord is the entire meal, guests should
be invited to come to the table three times: the first time, they
fill their plates with fish and suitable accompaniments. On
successive trips, they choose from the meats, cheeses, and salads,
and the hot dishes. Foods are arranged on the smorgasbord table in
groups, in the sequence which they are eaten, with an eye toward
beauty in the arrangement and garnishing of the platters. Beer is the
ususal accompaniment for smorgasbord; hot coffee should follow with
the dessert. From: The Settlement Cook Book: The Way To A Man's Hear
Produced By: The Settlement Cook Book Co. 1965 Transcribed By: S.
Lefkowitz

Submitted By SAM LEFKOWITZ   On   06-26-95

