Title: Sourdough Chicken-Fried Steak With Cream Gravy`
Categories: Meats, Cowboy
Yield: 4 servings
2 lb Round Steaks *
1 c  Sourdough Starter
1 c  All-Purpose Flour -- plus 2
-Tbs
1 tb Cookie's Dry Rub ** -- (see
-recipe)
1/2 c  Lard, Bacon Grease, Or
-Vegetable Oil
1 1/2 c  Milk
1/4 ts Salt
1/4 ts Hot Red Pepper Sauce
* Steaks should be about 1/2 inch thick, cut into 4 portions and
tenderized by the butcher. ** Cookie's Dry Rub is found in the Smoked
and Rubbed Prime Rib Roast recipe.

1. Using a meat pounder, pound the round steaks to a 1/4-inch
thickness. This could take some time, so take a sip of your favorite
beverage to fortify yourself. 2. Place the sourdough starter in a
medium bowl. Place 1 cup of the flour on a plate. Season both sides
of the steak with the dry rub. Dip a steak in the starter and then
coat with the flour, shaking off the excess. 3. Preheat the oven to
200 F. In a large skillet, heat the lard over medium-high heat. Add
the steak and cook, turning occasionally, until golden brown on both
sides, about 10 mins. Transfer to paper towels to drain briefly. Then
place on a baking sheet and keep warm in the oven

while repeating the procedure with the remaining steak. 4. Pour off
all but 2 Tbs of the fat in the skillet. Reduce the heat to low and
whisk in the remaining 2 Tbs flour. Let bubble without browning for 2
mins. Whisk in the milk, bring to a simmer, and cook until slightly
thickened, about 2 mins. Stir in the salt and red pepper sauce. 5.
Serve the steaks immediately with the cream gravy. NOTE: Have the
butcher run the steaks thru' a "Swissing" machine that is used on
cube steaks. Round steak is tougher than old boots, but delicious
when prepared properly. If you properly pound the steaks, no more
than 1 at a time can fit in a large frying pan. Do not crowd them. Do
them in 2 pans or separately and keep the finished steaks warm in the
oven.

Makes 4 to 6 servings of heaven from Robert L. "Buck" Reams of Fort
Worth, TX.

: National Cowboy Hall of Fame Chuck Wagon Cookbook
Recipe By

Date: 06-09-95 (85) Cooking
From: Dan Klepach

