Title: Soy Sauce
Categories: Information, Salsa/sauce, Asian
Yield: 1 info
MMMMM-----------------------NO INGREDIENTS----------------------------
While Americans are familiar with soy sauce, most aren't aware that
there are different types, nor do they understand how to use them.
China and Japan are the major producers of authentic soy sauce and
companies in each country make their own very different style of the
condiment. Within each major style, there are also light, dark, and
even "lite' soy sauces.

No matter the style, all soy sauce begins with soybeans, wheat and
mold. A combination of roasted soybean meal and ground wheat is
injected with aspergillus mold and left to develop for several days.
The cultured meal is then mixed with brine and yeast and transferred
to tanks where it ferments for anywhere from six months to four
years, depending on the manufacturer. The liquids are then drained
off, strained and bottled.

Japanese manufacturer use more wheat than the Chinese to make their
soy sauce and this accounts for its mellowere,. less salty flavor.
Dark soy, with its deep brown color and soft, fruity aroma, is the
type used most often in Japan. Japanese light soy spends less time in
fermentation tanks and is paler, with a milder flavor than the dark.
Cooks from southwestern Japan, wher the cuisine is very light and
delicate, favor it because it adds flavor but not color.

Chines-style soy sauces are generally saltier nad have a much stronger
flavor than the sweeter, mellower Japanese soy sauces. The Chinese
sauces range from very thickm dark, paste-like mixtures to some that
are quite thin and lightly colored. A bit of molasses gives their
dark soy a slightly sweet flavor. The Chines also make mushroom soy
sauce, which is dark soy sauce flavored with straw mushrooms.

In both countries, light soy sauces are saltier than dark. An easy
way to distinguish between the two is to shake the bottle. Dark soy
sauce will coat the sides of the bottle; the more watery light soy
won't.

Tamari sauce is made much the same way as soy sauce is but without
wheat. Some find its flavor unpleasantly metallic. Reduced-sodium soy
sauces are just an excuse for health food store to charge ridiculous
prices. If you're sensitive to sodium, you'll get more flavor by
simply diluting a good-quality soy sauce with water, broth, or wine
than by buying a more expensive "lite" product which has little taste.

Avoid artificially produced soy sauces that are invading grocery
shelves. Unlike Japanese or chinese companies that brew their soy
sauce according to the centuries-old process, American manufactureres
often take shortcuts, mixing soy protein with water, corn syrup, salt
and caramel color to produce a harsh, salty liquids that has none of
the complexity and richness of a good-quality soy sauce. To be sure
you're getting authentic brands, look for the words "naturally
brewed" on the label.

The deep color and strong sweet-salty taste of Chinese dark soy sauce
is well paired with hearty foods that won't be overwhelmed by its
powerful color and flavor. Meats and "red-cooked" dishes, in which
foods are braised slowly to develop an appetizing reddish brown
color, are good choices for dark soy sauce. Light Chinese soy sauce
is well matched with more subtly flavored foods, such as seafood,
vegetables and poultry dishes. Use it, too, for dipping sauces and
marinades. While Chines-style soy sauces are indispensable in some
traditional recioes, they're certainly not to everyone's taste, and
they'll overwhelm the flavor of subtler Japanese and Southeast Asian
dishes. Mushroom soy sauce, often used to flavor meat or vegetable
stir-fries, is delicious, but its flavor is quite potent. Use it
sparingly.

Japanese dark soy sauce is the most versatile for Western dishes as
well as for traditional Asian food. Kikkoman is a good all-purpose
soy sauce. Made by a Japanese company in Wisconsin, this
Japanese-style soy sauce has a well-rounded, complex flavor with a
slightly sweet aftertaste. Recommended for all types of cooking.

by Nicole Routhier Fine Cooking June-July 1995
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   06-17-95

