Title: Strawberries: Food Tip
Categories: Fruit, Information
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM----------------------STRAWBERRY TIPS---------------------------
Fresh is best. However, with Oregon's fresh strawberry season lasting
six weeks or less, freezing is a way to enjoy the flavor of these
choice berries all year. If you have ever frozen strawberries
individually on a cookie sheet without sugar, you know that when they
are thawed the color is dull, they get mushy and they lack the flavor
of the fresh berry. Don't throw them away; eat them in the partially
frozen state or use them for jam, jelly or syrup. The following
freezing methods will ensure the best quality in frozen strawberries.

SELECTING BERRIES The first step in getting a good frozen product is
to use fully ripe, firm, freshly picked berries. Strawberries should
be entirely deep red (not greenish), plump and look moist; they
should not be soft or bruised. The best strawberries have a full,
sweet scent. Sort through the berries and remove any damaged or moldy
fruit. Obviously, picking your own and getting them into the freezer
within a few hours is ideal.

BERRY PREPARATION Do not take off the green hull until the berries are
washed; the hulls prevent water from diluting flavor and breaking
down the texture inside the berries. Wash berries a few at a time in
cold water, gently lift out of water and drain. Remove hulls and
leave berries whole or slice; store using one of the following
methods.

LUNCH-BOX BERRIES The addition of pectin and a small amount of sugar
helps the berries retain their shape and color. Use 1 gallon whole
strawberries, 1 cup granulated sugar and 2 tablespoons powdered
pectin. Wash, remove hulls and slice strawberries. Mix sugar and
pectin together and stir gently into berries; let stand 10 minutes
for sugar to dissolve and juices to form. Plaace in freezer
containers, leaving 1/2-inch head space; freeze. Makes about 6 pints.

STRAWBERRIES IN PECTIN SYRUP Combine 1 package powdered pectin and
3-1/2 cups water; bring to a boil. Add 1-1/2 cups granulated sugar
and stir to dissolve sugar. Cool to room temperature. Carefully dip
selected whole berries in syrup and freeze on cookie sheet. Pack
berries into containers. Or pack sliced or whole fruit into
containers and cover with pectin syrup. Freeze immediately. This is
enough syrup for about 1 gallon of berries or 8 pints.

FREEZING BERRIES WITHOUT PECTIN For each quart of hulled strawberries
(whole, halved, sliced or lightly crushed), use 1/4 to 3/4 cup
granulated sugar, depending on the desired sweetness. Place the
berries in a shallow pan, sprinkle with the sugar and let berries sit
for 10 to 15 minutes to draw the juices. Place in containers and
freeze. If berries are sliced or crushed, leave 1/2-inch head space.
Makes 1 pint.

Source: Oregonian FoodDay June 6, 1995 Typos by Dorothy Flatman
Submitted By DOROTHY FLATMAN   On   06-14-95

