Title: Stuffed Chicken
Categories: Poultry, Meats
Yield: 4 servings
4    Chicken legs & thighs
-(attched)
1 1/2    Tbl. Dijon mustard
5    Tbl. lemon juice
1 1/2    Tbl. Worchestershir sauce
3/4 c  Bread crumbs
2/3 lb Good italian sausage
1    Hard boiled egg (finley
-chopped)
From Kelly & Company (a local TV show)  By Richard Simmons

Boning the legs...... Turn 1 leg upside down so that the skin side is
flat against te counter top, there will be no skin covering the
exposed part ot the thigh which you are looking at. Cut a slit
through the meat of the thigh down the length of the thigh bone in
order to expose it. Scrape the meat away from the bond, turning it a
bit with each scrape until the bone is completely free of flesh. At
the point where the thigh meets the leg there is a rather large
knobby joint. Cut around it with a pointed knife tip (this job needs
good knives) to free the joint from the meat. Next, begin scrapping
the meat from the leg, don't cut a slit down the side but rather
start scraping the meat from the leg just below the joint, roating it
as you go, so that you are working the meat in one pice down toward
the bottom (or ankle) much like taking off a pants leg. When you
reach the knobby joint at the bottom pull the meat back up around the
leg and lay the leg in front of you. With the back side of a large
knife wack the leg bone through the skin, just above that lower joint
to break it. Then pull the bone out and dispose of it, leaving the
very end of it in the leg to act as a kind of 'stopper' for the
filling.

Marinating, Stuffing and Cooking: Mix the mustard, lemon juice and
Worchestershir sauce. Put the chicken legs in a pan or bowl and pour
the mixture over them. Let stand at least 4 hours (better over night)
in the refrigerator.  Remove the marinated legs from the liquid and
mix the bread crumbs, eggs and sausage togeather. Stuff the legs with
this mixture being careful to allow room for expansion in the leg.
The thigh should be 'sewen' togeather with a couple of toothpicks or
a wooden skewer to hold the filling in.  Cook the stuffed chicken
legs over hot coals (or 6 in. under a hot broiler) for about 25-30
minutes, turning when 1/2 done. Baste them with left-over marinade
twice durning the last 10 minutes. Dinner is served (Makes 4 servings)

