Title: SZEKELY GOULASH
Categories: Main dish, Hungarian, Usenet
Yield: 6 servings
2 lb Sauerkraut, rinsed
-and drained
-(use a colander)
1 tb Caraway seeds
2 tb Butter (or oil
-or bacon drippings)
1 lb Pork shoulder, cut into
-large, bite-sized pieces
2    Garlic cloves,
-finely chopped
1 lb Hungarian sausage
-(or Polish sausage),
-sliced into large,
-bite-size rounds
1 lg Onion, chopped
1    Green pepper, chopped
1 tb Hungarian sweet paprika
-(or use fresh paprika
-from the supermarket)
2 c  Sour cream
Use a covered pot large enough to hold all the ingredients.  Put the
sauerkraut in just enough water to cover it, add caraway seeds, and
simmer with the cover on for two hours (or longer, if you want).

In a large, heavy skillet melt the butter and brown the pork.  Put
the pork and the sausage into the pot with the sauerkraut.

Saute the onion in the skillet until transparent; add the garlic and
saute for a few more minutes. Add this to the pot, along with the
green pepper and paprika. (I've had good luck adding some cayenne at
this point.) Simmer (with the cover on loosely) for a couple of
hours, mixing it up occasionally. Remove from heat and let cool for
30 minutes; then stir in the sour cream and serve.

NOTES:

*  Southern Hungarian Goulash -- This goulash is a specialty of
Szekely, the southern part of Hungary. My grandmother cooked it
without a recipe; this recipe is from my mother, with my
modifications. (Szekely is not pronounced the way it's spelled;
say-ki-ee is a little closer, but still wrong.)

*  This goes well with noodles, dumplings, potatoes, or spaetzle
(called nokedli in Hungarian).  The longer it cooks, the better it
tastes; it's even better reheated. Cook it the day before but don't
add the sour cream until you've reheated it.

: Difficulty:  easy.
: Time:  30 minutes chopping, many hours cooking.
: Precision:  Approximate measurement OK.

: Jeffrey Mogul, Computer Science Department, Stanford University
{ucbvax,decvax}!decwrl!glacier!navajo!mogul,
:
mogul@Navajo.Stanford.EDU

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

