Title: Thai-Style Grilled Chicken
Categories: Poultry, Bbq/grill
Yield: 8 servings
5 tb Thai or Vietnamese fish
-sauce (nam pla or nuoc mam)
1/4 c  Light brown sugar
1/4 c  Canned, unsweetened coconut
-milk
2 1/2    Tbsfresh lime juice
2 tb Five-spice powder
2 tb Soy sauce
1 tb Crushed dried Asian chilis
-(about 8 small)
1 tb Plus 1 tsp curry powder
3 lb Chickens, quartered, rinsed,
-patted dry
8    Leaves of butter lettuce
-(Boston, Bibb, etc)
2 md Tomatoes, quartered
2 md Cucumbers, sliced 1/4 inch
-thick
1/2    Red onion, sliced and
-separated into strips
Amerasian Dipping Sauce
-(separate recipe)
Servings: 8 Notes: This Asian-influenced dish is from Philipe La
Mancusa, the chef at Embarko in San Francisco. He serves the chicken
with fried plantains, rice and Singha beer from Thailand. The chicken
must marinate for one to two days before grilling.

DIRECTIONS: In a small bowl, mix the fish sauce, brown sugar, coconut
milk, lime juice, five-spice powder, soy sauce, crushed chiles and
curry powder. Set aside for at least 2 hours.

Stir the marinade well. Place the chicken in a glass baking dish and
coat thoroughly with the marinade. Transfer the chicken to 2 large,
heavy Ziploc plastic bags. Pour in any extra marinade. Press out any
air and zip the bags to close. Set aside to marinate at room
temperature for 2 hours, then refrigerate for at least 24 hours or up
to 2 days, turning the bags occasionally.

Light the grill. Cut the chicken wings off at the second joint or
fasten the wing tips to the rib cages with metal skewers. The fire is
ready when you can hold your hand 7 inches above the coals for at
least 4 seconds. Grill the chicken, bony sides down, for 1 1/2
minutes, then turn and grill for 1 1/2 minutes to seal in the juices.
Turn the chicken again and grill for about 6 minutes, until the
surface meat is firm. Turn and grill for 6 minutes longer. If the
fire is too hot, the skin will char, so watch carefully and turn the
chicken if necessary. Grill the chicken, turning occasionally, for 17
to 25 minutes longer. It is done as soon as the meat is white
throughout and the juices run clear when the meat is deeply pierced.

Alternatively, preheat the broiler. Broil the chicken for about 35
minutes, beginning skin-side up and turning every 10 minutes.

Serve the chicken on plates or a platter, garnished with the lettuce,
tomatoes, cucumbers and red onion. Serve each person 1/4 cup of the
dipping sauce in small dishes.

Source: Food & Wine magazine, 07/90

