Title: Tomato and Basil Soup
Categories: Soup/stew, Vegetarian, Appetizers
Yield: 6 servings
5 lb Tomatoes
24 lg Basil Leaves
6 1/4 oz Salted Butter
Salt
Ground Black Pepper
2 2/3 oz Fromage Blanc
This soup combines the sweetness of fresh basil with the tangy
flavour of ripe tomatoes. Fromage Blanc adds creaminess.

Preparation Time: 15 minutes Cooking Time: 10 minutes

Tip: If you want to skin smaller quantities of tomatoes you will find
it quick and easy if you cut a cross on the tops of the tomatoes,
push a fork into the other end and sear the tomato skin over a medium
gas flame, turning the tomato ove as the skin loosens.

Serving Suggustion:

Warm some French Bread in the oven and serve chunks of it with the
soup.

1. Make a small slit in the skin of each tomato and blanch in boiling
water for 5-7 seconds. They are ready when the skin starts to peel
away from the knife slits. Lift the tomatoes out and peel, then
halve, scooping the seeds and juice into a sieve set over a bowl.
Sieve the juice and reserve, then cut the tomato flesh into small
strips.

2. Roughly chop all but 6 of the basil leaves. Put the tomato strips,
reserved juice and chopped basil into a frying pan. Add 1/3 of the
butter and place over a medium heat, shaking the pan and stirring.

3. When the tomato strips start to break up, turn up the heat and
briskly stir in the rest of the butter. When all the butter has been
added, the tomatoes should only be half cooked. Season with salt and
pepper.

4. Fill individual soup bowls with the tomato soup, then spoon fromage
blanc into the middle of each bowl. Garnish each soup bowl with a
fresh basil leaf and serve at once.
Microwave Method

Put tomato strips, juice, and basil with 1/3 of the butter in a large
microwave proof bowl, cover and cook on high (100%) for 10 minutes.
Beat in the rest of the butter and cook for a further 5-10 minutes
until the tomatoes have softened, season and serve with bread rolls
warmed in the microwave. Six rolls warmed on defrost (30%) will take
2-3 minutes. Warming on a low setting will prevent the bread from
drying out. Submitted By KAZ LANGRIDGE   On   05-21-95

