Title: Uncle Dirty Dave's Parmesan Chicken
Categories: Salsa/sauce, Italian, Poultry
Yield: 8 servings
8 ea Boneless, skinless chicken
-breasts
1 c  Butter unsalted
1 pt Cream, or half and half
1 1/2 c  Parmesan, grated
1/2 c  Romano cheese, grated
8 oz Mozzarella
1 ts Salt
1 ds White pepper
1/4 c  Chives or fresh chopped
-green onion tops
Heat butter or and cream in a small sauce pan until butter melts.
Stir in cheese, salt and pepper and half of chives.  Keep warm over
low heat.

Flatten chicken breasts with smooth side of your tenderizer mallet.

If grilling, marinate in a shallow dish of Italian dressing for two or
three minutes, turning breasts with a fork until all are coated with
marinade. Brush occasionally with marinade while grilling. Do not
overcook.

If pan frying, coat the breasts with egg and roll in coating mix. Fry
in a medium hot pan with approximately 1/4 inch of shortning or
cooking oil. Turn once when coating becomes crispy. Do not overcook.

Place breast on a bed of pasta (spaghettini to fettucini) and ladle
sauce over breast and pasta. Garnish with reserved chives and a dash
of sweet paprika. Suggested side dishes are broccoli florets or
French cut green beans and garbanzos cooked with onion (or pearl
onions if you want to be fancy).

Dave's Coating Mix

8 oz Corn flakes or Wheaties
1 ts Garlic granules
1 ts Savory leaves
1/2 ts dried basil
1/2 ts oregano
1 ts salt
1 ts coarse ground black pepper

Crush cereal until it becomes a medium fine consistency. Place in
covered vessel with other ingredients. Shake to mix. Pour into flat
low sided pan as much as necessary to coat your meat. Pick out lumps
before returning balance to storage container.

This is a good general purpose coating mix for chicken and veal. With
the addition of 1 ts of dill it becomes an excellent coating for pan
frying fish.  Uncle Dirty Dave's Kitchen. July 18, 1994.
Recipes saved: 1 Lines read: 54 Lines written: 63

Formatted by MARKIT version 1.02 Rodney Grantham 770 Cranberry Trail
Roswell GA 30076

