Title: WINTER VEGETABLE BEEF SOUP
Categories: Soup/stew, Usenet
Yield: 20 cups
1 lb Beef soup bones
-(as meaty as possible;
-meaty neck or cross-cut
-shank bones are good)
12 c  Water
1 lg Onion, quartered
-(don't use instant)
2 lb Cooking tomatoes
-(peeled), whole
-(2 large cans)
1/4 lb Green beans, fresh
2 sm Carrots
1/2 lb Green peas, unshelled
1    Ear corn, fresh
3    Bay leaves
5 tb Basil, dried (or
-1/2 cup fresh, chopped)
2 tb Oregano, dried
-(or 2-4 T fresh, chopped)
1 tb Thyme, dried (or 2 T
-fresh, chopped)
Salt and pepper
In a large, heavy pot, bring about 12 C of water to boil.  Add beef
bones, cover and bring back to full boil.  Reduce heat to low simmer.
Skim occasionally during first 30 minutes to remove scum.  Cook for
3-4 hours until meat is tender and nearly falls off of bones.

Remove bones from broth.  Remove all meat and marrow from bones and
return to the pot. Add tomatoes (including juice), onion and herbs.
Simmer for 20 minutes.  Remove tomatoes, break up into quarters or
smaller, and return to the pot.  Continue to simmer.

Clean green beans and break into pieces.  Clean carrots and slice
into thin slices.  Slice kernels from ear of corn.  Shell peas.  Add
vegetables to pot. Simmer for 30 minutes. Add salt and pepper to
taste and serve.

NOTES:

*  A thick and hearty vegetable beef soup, this soup is almost thick
enough to be called a stew. It is great on a cold day or after skiing.

*  I prefer beef neck or shank bones over what markets call "soup
bones" which are nearly devoid of meat. Individual-serving size cans
of green beans, corn and green peas may be substituted if fresh
vegetables are not available. These are the basic vegetables I use,
but I have also added mustard greens, chinese cabbage, zucchini and
yellow squash (add just 5 minutes before serving or they become mush)
turnips and any other fall/winter vegetables that look good in the
market. Serve with cornbread, sourdough or another strong flavored
bread. This soup improves with age.

: Difficulty:  easy to moderate.
: Time:  Several hours of intermittent attention.
: Precision:  approximate measurement OK.

: Pamela McGarvey
: UCLA Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, Los Angeles, California, USA
: {hao,sdcrdcf}!cepu!pam

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

