Title: Wonderful Summertime Non-Alcholic Drinks
Categories: Beverages, Beverages
Yield: 1 serving
Numerous ingredients
"Here are some wonderful, cooling non-alcoholic drinks perfect for a
hot summer barbeque or after working on your garden."

ALMOND ICED COFFEE: Combine 1 cup of strong brewed coffee with 1 cup
of skim milk, 1/2 tsp vanilla extract, 1/4 tsp almond extract and 1
tsp sugar. Pour the mixture into two ice-filled 10-oz glasses and
garnish each with a light sprinkling of cinnamon. Serves 2.

BANANA & ORANGE SMOOTHY: In a blender, puree 1 banana, 1 cup of orange
juice (or 1/2 cup each of orange and grapefruit juices), 1/2 cup of
crushed ice and 1 tb of lemon juice. Serves 1.

FRUIT SPRITZER: In a blender or food processor, puree 1 cup ripe,
seeded and cubed honeydew melon, 1 unpeeled negtarine or peach that
has been cubed, 1/2 cup of orange juice and a 1/2 cup of cracked ice.
Fill 2 10-oz g;ases 3/4 full and top off with a splash of seltzer
water. Serves 2.

ICED CHOCOLATE ESPRESSO COFFEE: Mix 2 cups fresh-brewed, hot espresso
coffee with 1/2 cup superfine granulated sugar and 1 oz. aquare of
semisweet chocolate (chopped). After the sugar dissolves and the
chocolate melts, refrigerate the mixture for at least 3 hours. Pour
into wineglasses filled with finely crushed ice and garnish with
fresh whipped cream and a chocolate covered coffee bean. Serves 2.

KIWI & GINGER SPARKLE: Blend 1 ripe kiwifruit (peeled and cut up), 1
ripe peach (peeled, pitted and cut up) and 1/4 cup crushed ice until
liquified. Fill two 10-oz glasses half full of mixture. Fill the
remainder of each glass with ginger ale. Garnish with kiwi slice.
Serves 2.

ORANGE MIST: Freeze 2 cups of orange juice in an ice-cube tray. Place
half of the orange ice cubed in a blender with 2 cups of orange juice
and 1 tb of lime juice. Puree until slushy and transfer to a large
glass pitcher. Repeat with the remaining ice cubes, orange juice and
lime juice. Add two cups of ginger ale (well-chilled) and stir. Serve
in wineglasses garnished with kiwi slices. Serves 8.

PEACH, ORANGE & GINGER FIZZ: Thaw a 10-oz package of frozen peaches in
light syrup according to the package directions. Puree peaches in a
food processor or blender. Divide the peach puree evenly among 4
10-oz glasses. Add 1/2 cup of orange juice and a handful of ice cubes
to each glass. Top each with a splash of ginger ale. Stir gently and
garnish with orange slices. Serves 4.

STRAWBERRY CRUSH: Break a 10-oz package of frozen stawberries in light
syrup into large chunks and place in food processor or blender. Remove
orange zest (the orange part of the peel) with a vegetable peeler.
Squeeze orange and add juice to the strawberries and puree until
smooth. For each serbing, place 2 rounded tablespoons of the mixture
in the bottom of a champagne glass. Slowly add 6 oz. chilled orange
flavored seltzer and stir to form a foamy head. Garnish with a spiral
of orange zest draped over the side of each glass. Serves 8.

TOMATO & HORSERADISH QUENCHER: Mix 8 oz. of tomato juice, 1 tb lemon
juice and 1 tsp horseradish (freshly grated, if available) in a
cocktail glass. Add an ice cube or two. Garnish with a grinding of
black pepper, a twist of lemon peel and a cucumber spear. Serves 1.

WHITE GRAPE JUICE SANGRIA: Peel the skin of 1 orange into one long
spiral. Repeat with a lemon. Fill a large pitcher with ice. Add 1
28-oz bottle of white grape juice, 1 32-oz bottle of seltzer, the
juice of the orange and the lemon, and the orange and lemon zest
spirals. Stir well. Pour into wineglasses and garnish each with a
slice of lime. Serves 8.

Source: Marie Simmons, Bottom Line personal, Vol 16, #13, July 1,
1995. Typos & Comments by: .\\ichele
Submitted By MICHELE STEWART   On   06-26-95

