Title: Zwetschgendatschi
Categories: Desserts, Fruit
Yield: 1 servings
ZWETSCHGENDATSCHI
=================
ZWETSCHGEND - A Bavarian
-plum delicacy for dessert
My mother  and  grandmother
- make  this  Bavarian
-specialty
without  a  recipe;  this  recipe is from my mother, after I pressed
her to write it down so I could  make  my  own.   It also includes
variations from a few other folks that you might like to try. Roughly
translated from Bavarian to Ger- man, this is Pflaumenkuchen, which,
roughly translated from German to to English is Plum cake. However,
Zwetschgen aren't ordinary plums, a Datschi isn't really a Kuchen,
and a Kuchen is most definitely not a cake! This dessert is made of
the slightly tart Italian plums, which are unfortunately only
available at certain times of the year. Don't try to make it with
ordinary plums;  they're too sweet and too juicy. INGREDIENTS: (Fills
one round cake pan) 1/4 lb butter 1/3 cup sugar 1/2 tsp vanilla (or
use vanilla sugar)
egg 1 pinch salt (only if you use unsalted butter) 1 tsp
1
lemon peel 1 Tbsp sour cream 1 3/4 cup flour 1 tsp baking powder 2
cups Italian plums OPTIONAL STREUSEL TOPPING: 6 Tbsp butter 3/4 cup
flour 1/3 cup sugar 1/2 tsp   cinnamon PROCEDURE: (1) In a large
bowl, cream the butter, add the  sugar (and vanilla), add the egg,
(salt,) lemon peel, and sour cream. Mix the flour and baking  powder,
and add that. (2) Pit the plums, splitting  them  into  halves  or
thirds. Grease the pan and spread the dough. Liberally spread plums
over the dough, meat side up. If the plums are sour (as opposed to
just tart), sprinkle them lightly with sugar. (3) To make the
optional Streusel topping,  cream  the butter, add flour, sugar and
cinnamon. Sprinkle over the plums. (4) Bake for 30-45 minutes in the
middle rack  at  375 deg. F. Be careful not to let the bottom burn!
(5) Serve liberally topped with freshly-made  whipping cream. NOTES:
A Datschi may actually be made with any fruit; I  happen  to love it
with Zwetschgen the best. I don't know this with Streusel on top, and
never prepare it that way, but several of my acquaintances swear by
it.  Made with other fruit, I would  be  more  likely  to  accept
the Streusel. If you like, you may sprinkle rum or cinnamon over the
fruit before baking. Also, you might try substituting rum for the
sour cream in the dough, or just adding both. If you want to make  a
cookie-sheet-sized  Datschi,  simply double the recipe. RATING:
Difficulty: moderate. Time: 20 minutes preparation, 20 minutes
baking.  Precision: approximate measurement OK.

Submitted By SAM LEFKOWITZ   On    5-27-95

