Title: 1993 3RD PLACE: SPRINGERLE
Categories: Cookies, Holiday
Yield: 84 Servings
1/2 ts Baker's ammonia
2 tb Milk
6 ea Eggs, at room temperature
1 1/2 lb Confectioners' sugar
(about 6 cups)
1/2 c  Unsalted butter, softened
1/2 ts Anise oil
1/2 ts Salt
2 lb Cake flour, sifted
(about 8 cups)
Preparation time: 40 minutes Standing time: 1 hour plus overnight
Cooking time: 10 to 12 minutes Aging time: 1 week or more

1. Mash baker's ammonia with a rolling pin if it is not powdered.
Dissolve it in the milk in a small bowl and let stand 1 hour before
using.

2. Beat eggs in large bowl of electric mixer until thick and
lemon-colored, about 5 minutes. Gradually beat in confectioners' sugar
until creamy and smooth. Add butter and beat again until creamy. Add
anise oil, dissolved baker's ammonia and salt; beat to mix. Gradually
beat in enough flour to make a stiff dough.

3. Cut off pieces of dough and work in more flour on a floured work
surface until dough is stiff enough to roll out and hold the design
of the springerle rolling pin or mold. Roll out on a lightly floured
board with a floured rolling pin to 1/4-inch thickness. Press design
on dough with a floured springerle rolling pin or mold. Cut cookies
apart using a floured knife. Leave on work surface covered with a
clean kitchen towel overnight.

4. The next day, heat oven to 325 degrees. Bake cookies on greased
baking sheets, until barely golden on the bottom, 10 to 12 minutes.
Cool on wire racks. Store in tightly covered tins and allow to
mellow at least 1 week before serving.

Note: This recipe also can be made using 1 1/2 teaspoons baking
powder (in place of the milk and the baker's ammonia) and anise
extract instead of anise oil. However, the cookies will not be as
delicately textured and the anise flavor not quite as rich. If using
baking powder, add it with the salt to the batter.

Connie Meisinger of Buffalo Grove tied for third place with this
recipe. from the Chicago Tribune sixth annual Food Guide Holiday
Cookie Contest December 2, 1993

