Title: 1993 2ND PLACE: MOZART COOKIES
Categories: Cookies, Holiday
Yield: 30 Servings
3 c  All-purpose flour
1/2 c  Granulated sugar
2 ea Egg yolks, beaten
1 tb Pure vanilla extract
1/2 ts Salt
Grated rind of 1 lemon
1 c  Unsalted butter, softened
MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
12 oz Apricot preserves
1 tb Fresh lemon juice
1 tb Rum
Confectioners' sugar
Preparation time: 1 1/4 hours Cooking time: 10 to 12 minutes

1. Sift flour into a large mixing bowl and make an indentation or
well in the center of the flour. Add the sugar, egg yolks, vanilla,
salt and lemon rind to the well. Mix the ingredients in the well
together with the flour. Then cut in the butter using a pastry cutter
or two sharp knives. At this point the dough will resemble coarse
crumbs. Turn the dough out onto a work surface and knead it with your
hands until smooth and firm. Divide dough in half and shape into two
balls.

2. Wrap tightly in plastic. Refrigerate until firm enough to roll
out, about 1 hour.

3. Meanwhile, heat the apricot preserves over low heat, stirring
constantly. Stir in lemon juice and rum. Let cool.

4. Heat oven to 325 degrees. Place the chilled dough on a lightly
floured surface or between two sheets of floured wax paper. Roll out
with a floured rolling pin to about 1/4-inch thickness. Cut out
circles of dough about 2 inches in diameter. Place half of the
circles onto greased or non-stick cookie sheets. Cut the other half
of the circles again with a small shot glass or cookie cutter to form
a ring shape. (Make an equal amount of rings to circles.) Place the
rings onto buttered baking sheets. Bake until light gold, 10 to 12
minutes. Cool a little on the cookie sheets.

5. To assemble, brush the still-warm circles with the cooled apricot
mixture. Place one ring on top of each circle and press gently (they
break easily) to secure. Spoon a small dollop of the apricot mixture
into the center of the cookies. Sprinkle with confectioners' sugar.
Cool. Store in a tightly closed tin.

Infused with bits of lemon and pure vanilla and filled with apricot
preserves and rum, the buttery rounds brought second-place honors to
their baker, German-born Anne Kroemer of Chicago. Anne uses a wine
glass and a smaller schnapps glass to cut out these cookies. We've
made them slightly smaller by using round cookie cutters; biscuit
cutters work as well. from the Chicago Tribune sixth annual Food
Guide Holiday Cookie Contest December 2, 1993

