Title: 400-CLOVE GARLIC TURKEY FROM THE STINKING ROS
Categories: Poultry
Yield: 12 Servings
1    Turkey
4 oz Butter
2 oz Olive oil
1 c  Sage, fresh; chopped
2 tb Garlic cloves, crushed
Salt
Pepper
2 lb Garlic cloves; peeled
2 c  Wine, white
2 c  Stock, chicken
1/2 c  Flour
Turkey stock may be substituted for chicken stock, if available.

Clean and wash the turkey and pat dry with a paper towel. Loosen the
skin of the breast and rub the turkey under the skin with the sage
and chopped garlic. Season the turkey inside and out with salt and
pepper and remaining sage. Place turkey in a large roasting pan,
preferably on a rack. Roast the turkey at 350 degrees, basting every
twenty minutes with the melted butter and olive oil combined.

An hour and half before the turkey will be finished, add the 400
garlic cloves to the bottom of the roasting pan. Continue to baste
the turkey and at the same time stir the cloves at the bottom of the
pan. Then the turkey is done, remove it from the pan. Drain the
drippings into a small sauce pan, reserving the garlic in the
roasting pan. Place the roasting pan on a burner over medium-high
heat. Add white wine and stock. Bring to a boil, stirring with a wisk
to mash the roasted garlic cloves.

Place the saucepan with the drippings over medium heat and with a
whip add the flour to form a roux. Add the roux to the garlic gravy a
little at a time until it reaches the desired thickness. Carve the
turkey and serve with the 400-clove garlic gravy, accompnied by
garlic mashed potatoes.

This popular North Beach restaurant claims that it "seasons its
garlic with food."  You'll see what they mean when you look at the
list of ingredients.

From:  The Stinking Rose Garlic Restaurant, 325 Columbus Avenue, San
Francisco, California

Posted by Linda Shogren on GEnie, 11/92

MM by THE.LARK [Choc. King]

From the recipe files of Sylvia Steiger, GEnie THE.STEIGERS, CI$
71511,2253, GT Cookbook echo moderator at net/node 004/005, Internet
sylvia.steiger@lunatic.com

