Title: ABOUT BAGELS -- GENERAL DIRECTIONS 2 B
Categories: Breads
Yield: 1 Servings
Text
THE HEAVY DUTY MIXER WITH A DOUGH HOOK

A heavy duty electric mixer with a dough hook will make short work of
mixing small or large batches of dough quickly.

Combine the warm liquid (110-115 degrees), syrup, honey or sugar, oil
and yeast, and then add half the flour and all other dry ingredients.
Add remaining flour until a ball forms.

The dough hook will do part or all of the kneading, which should take
about 5 minutes. If the dough begins to strain the machine, add more
water so it becomes softer (check your manufacturer's directions; a
heavy duty mixer with a dough hook should have no problem kneading).
When dough appears near desired consistency, remove it from the bowl
and knead in extra dough until it forms a soft ball. Follow the same
first rise procedures as in the hand mixing or food processor
methods. If a fast-rising yeast is used, the first rise is not
necessary.

Proceed to Step 2: Shape Bagels.

BY HAND:

Mix together warm water (110-115 degrees), yeast and 1 tsp. sugar and
let stand for 5 minutes. In a large bowl, add remaining sugar, salt
and 2 cups flour. Stir in the yeast mixture. Add remaining flour,
stirring to form dough.

Turn dough out onto a lightly floured board. Knead dough by hand,
adding more flour as necessary, for 10 to 15 minutes until dough is
smooth, shiny, stiff and elastic. Keep the board and your hands
dusted with flour to prevent sticking.

Knead by pushing down on the dough with the palms of your hands,
exerting pressure from your shoulders. Lift the dough from the top
edge, turn it a quarter turn, fold it in half, press again, turn,
fold, press, and repeat the process until dough forms a cohesive
ball. When the dough is no longer sticky, stretch it to help develop
elasticity. Knead it a few more times (by now you should be about
ready to drop dead and buy frozen Lender's <G>.) Drop it on your
board, lift it, pick it up again and drop it again, continuing to
stretch, drop and knead a few more times. If it becomes too stiff,
add a few drops of water; if too sticky, add a little more flour.
When optimally kneaded and shaped into a ball, dough will spring back
when poked gently.

Place dough in a lightly greased bowl. Turn dough so all surfaces are
greased. cover with a sheet of plastic wrap sprayed with nonstick
vegetable spray and let rise until doubled in bulk, about an hour.
the test for proper rising, which about doubles the mass of the dough
in size, is to poke two fingers lightly and quickly about 1/2" into
dough. If dent stays, dough is doubled.

Proceed to Step 2: Shape Bagels

CONTINUED IN ABOUT BAGELS -- GENERAL DIRECTIONS 3

The Best Bagels are made at home by Dona Z. Meilach

ISBN 1-55867-131-5

Carolyn Shaw April 1996 From: Homenet Cook

