Title: ABOUT BAGELS -- GENERAL DIRECTIONS 5
Categories: Breads
Yield: 1 Servings
Text
STEP 6: BAKE

Place bagels on a shelf just below the middle in a preheated 400F.
oven and bake for 20 to 25 minutes or until the tops are a nice
golden brown.

BAKING SURFACES:

Bake the bagels on a baking sheet. The easiest surface available to
most home cooks is an aluminum cookie sheet or flat Teflon-coated
sheet pan. Coat with a little oil and sprinkle very lightly with
yellow cornmeal to prevent bagels from sticking. Or line the pan with
parchment paper; it eliminates the use of oil and cornmeal and
cleaning pans.

Bake the bagels on wooden boards (described earlier in directions).
Place bagels on the boards bottom side up to form a crusty bottom,
and flip them off the board after 2 or 3 minutes onto a stone or
sheet to continue baking.

Bake the bagels directly on a baking stone or tiles. Place the stone
or tiles on the lowest rack. Or line a baking sheet with the tiles
and place that on the lowest rack. Preheat the oven, with stone or
tiles inside, to 400F. for 1 hour before baking. Sprinkle cornmeal on
the stone or tiles. Transfer unbaked bagels to the hot surface with a
wooden peel (a long-handled wooden paddle used in baking), or any
flat instrument with a long handle so you don't burn yourself; wear
heavy padded gloves.

Do not wash or immerse stone or tiles in cold water while they are
hot; they may crack. Soak the cooled stone or tiles in cold water and
scrape with a spatula. Do not use soap, as the surfaces tend to
absorb soap, which will be imparted to the bagels. Stones and tiles
will discolor, but that won't affect their baking ability. Don't
place a hot stone directly on your kitchen counter; depending on the
material, the heat could leave a mark.

Steam baking gives bagel tops a crisp crust and extra shine. Create
steam during the first few seconds of the baking by spraying the
sides of the preheated oven with water from a spray bottle when you
place the bagels inside. Place a heavy pan in the lower part of the
oven bottom while it is heating. Place the bagels in the oven and
then pour cold water or half a dozen ice cubes into the pan.

STORING AND USING BAGELS:

Bagels are best when they're eaten fresh from the oven while still
warm. Because they don't usually contain egg or milk, they tend to
dry out faster than breads that contain these ingredients. If you
can't consume all the bagels in a reasonably short time, freezing
them is recommended. It's smart to slice them horizontally before
freezing so you can toast only half at a time, if you wish.

Thaw bagels on the kitchen counter in a plastic bag for about 15
minutes or toast directly from the freezer. Or zap them in the
microwave oven for about 1 minute on DEFROST and then toast them
until lightly browned on top. Microwaving too long will make them
tough.

What if a few bagels get stale? Put them into your blender or food
processor and grind them into bread crumbs. None of the tasty bread
need ever go to waste!

The Best Bagels are made at home by Dona Z. Meilach

ISBN 1-55867-131-5

Carolyn Shaw April 1996 From: Homenet Cook

