Title: ALGERIAN CHILI (LOUBIA B'DERSA)
Categories: Stew chili, Beans
1 lb (2 cups) small navy beans --
soaked
Yield: 10 Servings
:
1/4 c  olive oil
1 lg onion -- finely diced
3 sm dried red chilies -- seeded
15    garlic cloves -- minced
1 TB sweet paprika
1/4 ts freshly ground black pepper
4 ts ground cumin
6 oz tomato paste -- canned
2    tomatoes -- coarsely
chopped
:
7 c  water -- or
vegetable broth
:
2    bay leaves
1/8 ts cayenne -- or to taste
20    sprigs fresh flat-leaf
parsley -- chopped
:
2 1/2 ts salt
10    sprigs fresh cilantro --
chopped
Cider vinegar -- or
red wine vinegar --
optional
:
:
:
:

LOUBIA is an Algerian speciality that gets its flavor from DERSA, a
spicy blend of ground dried red chilies (use New Mexican in the US),
garlic, and ground cumin. Dersa is a predominant season ing in the
cuisine. A dash of vinegar is traditionally added to each bowl of
Loubia on serving.

Soak and drain the beans. Set aside. SOAKING BEANS: Rinse and pick
over the beans and soak them overnight in a bowl of water to cover.
Drain and proceed with the recipe. For the quick-soak method, place
the beans in a large soup pot and add 10 cups of hot water. Bring
them to a rolling boil for 2 to 3 minutes. Turn off the heat and let
the beans stand in the cooking water for at least 1 hour, and
preferable longer. Drain the beans and proceed with the recipe. The
older the beans, the longer they will take to cook. (She recommends
adding salt to the cooking water: up to 2 teaspoons per pound of
dried beans.)

In a large soup pop over medium high heat, heat the oil, and cook the
onion, stirring occasionally, until tender; 6 to 8 minutes. Add the
chilies, garlic, paprika, pepper, and cumin. Cook, stirring, for 2 to
3 minutes. Add the tomato paste and cook, stirring, until the mixture
thickens, 1 to 2 minutes. Stir in the tomatoes and 1 cup of the water
or broth and bring to a boil. Add the beans, the remaining 6 cups
water or broth, the bay leaves, cayenne, and
10    of the parsley sprigs tied together with cotton string.
Mince the remaining parsley and set aside. Lower the heat to medium
low, cover, and cook the beans until tender, 1 to 2 hours.

Before serving, discard the chilies, bay leaves, and tied parsley.
Season with salt. Stir in the reserved minced parsley and cilantro.
Serve hot with vinegar on the side, if you like.

1996 Kitty Morse.  North Africa: The Vegetarian Table. One in a new
series produced by Chronicle Books, San Francisco. This recipe was
found on MC-Recipe List Service "COLLECTION (3) Chili Recipes plus
Pesto," 15 Oct 1996. [patH]

: Kitty Morse in North Africa (1996)
Recipe By

From: Path <phannema@wizard.Ucr.Edu>  Date: Tue, 15 Oct 1996 11:01:00
~0700 (

