Title: HOW TO MAKE REAL BELGIAN FRIES!
Categories: Top secret, Michel mes
Yield: 1 Recipe
AUTHOR="Michel Mes"
Follow these instructions carefully and enjoy the wonderfull taste of
the real Belgianfries.

Start by peeling some potatoes. Cut them in slices 1 cm (3/8") thick
and finally cut them into fries of 1 cm square. Dry the fries well in
paper or a towel before putting them into the oil.

Note: some people like to put them in cold water for a few minutes:
this washes out much of the starch and tends to make them less sticky
after the first frying and more crispy after the second.

Heat the oil in a hot frying pan or deep fryer to a temperature of
160C (320F). Put in a handfull of fries: not more at once because the
oil will cool down too much. Fry for a few minutes (4-8 depending on
the thickness and the kind of potatoes), stir regularly to prevent
sticking. Put the fries into a large bowl with kitchen paper and let
them 'sweat' for at least 1/2 hour.

Finally heat to 190C (375F) and fry for 2 minutes until crispy and
golden brown. This way the fries will be crispy on the outside and
soft on the inside, the way they should be!

Serve with a little salt (no vinegar pleeeeease) and some mayonnaise.

A LIST OF NO-NO'S:

Do not slice them too thin. 1 cm square is the perfect dimension. Try
to cut them rectangular: pointed ends tend to burn. You'll need more
patatoes of course.

Do not put in too many fries at once: the oil will cool down and your
fries will be too wacky and greasy.

Do not fry them the first time until they become brown.

Never put a lid on your frying pan: this makes your fries wacky.

Never use frozen fries! Go to a McDonalds if you like them ... French
fries (also known as Pommes Allumettes) are thinner then the real
ones. They taste OK but are a lot more greasy! They are fried only
once at 180C.

Other variaties include Pommes Paille (1,5 mm thick, fry once) and
Pommes Gauffre (cut with a special knife).

http://www.tornado.be/~mmes/ HomePage frites.htm Belgian Fries Main
Page koten.htm Frietkoten by Michel A. Mes

E-mail: mmes@tornado.be

