Title: HUMMUS-COUSCOUS LOAF
Categories: Vegetarian
Yield: 4 Servings
1 c  Couscous
2 1/2 c  Water
1/4 c  Water
1 ts Olive oil
1 sm Eggplant, cut into
-french-fry sized strips
2    Carrots, chopped into very
-small pieces(minced)
2    Cloves garlic, minced
1/4 ts Salt
-Freshly ground black
-pepper, to taste
1 1/2 c  Cooked chickpeas
1 tb Sesame tahini paste
-Freshly squeezed lemon
-juice from 1/2 a lemon
1 1/2 c  Vegetable broth, or 1 1/2
-cups water mixed
-with 1 tablespoon
-vegetable broth seasoning
2 tb Egg replacer or potato
-starch
2 tb Wheat flour
-Paprika, freshly ground
-black pepper
Preheat oven to 350 degrees.

In a saucepan, add the couscous and water. Bring to a boil, then
reduce the heat and cover. Cook until all the water is gone, about 10
minutes. Then turn off the heat.

While the couscous is cooking, saute the vegetables. On a large
saucepan, spray the olive oil on the pan or brush with a pastry
brush. Add the water and heat over moderate heat until the water
starts to simmer. Add the eggplant strips, carrots, garlic, salt and
pepper. Saute until soft, adding a little more water if too dry. Then
turn off the heat.

In a mixing bowl or blender, mix the chickpeas, tahini paste, lemon
juice, and vegetable broth. Using a hand blender or blender, blend
into a smooth paste. Then add the egg replacer or potato starch, and
the flour. Blend until smooth.

With the heat turned off on the large saucepan, add the chickpea
(hummus) mixture to the vegetables and coat well. Then add the
couscous and mix the vegetable/hummus mixture into the couscous.

Lightly grease a glass bread loaf pan with olive oil. Add the
couscous/vegetable/hummus mixture. Press into the loaf pan. Dust the
top of the loaf with paprika and black pepper.

Bake 50-55 minutes. Let stand 10-15 minutes before serving. Serve in
thick slices with a green vegetable such as cooked spinach, a salad
such as lettuce topped with fresh orange slices, and if desired, a
bread such as warm whole-wheat pita bread. - Mary Howard

