Title: HUNAN VEGETABLE PIE B1
Categories: Chinese, Vegetables, Main dish, Appetizers
Yield: 6 Servings
3    Bean curd skin sheets
-(dried bean curd)
10 sm Dried shrimp
2 lg Dried black mushrooms
-(Chinese)
1    (1-in.) piece ginger root
2    Scallions
Oil
1    Winter bamboo shoot
1 1/2 tb Soy sauce
1 tb Dry sherry
1 ts Sugar
1 ts Flavor enhancer (opt.)
Black pepper
2 c  Chicken stock
1 c  All-purpose flour
1    Recipe pancakes
1    Recipe sauce
MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
Scallion brushes
Parsley
Decoratively cut radishes
MMMMM--------------------------PANCAKES-------------------------------
2 c  All-purpose flour, sifted
3/4 c  Boiling water
2 tb Sesame or cooking oil
MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
1/2 c  Hoisin sauce
1 tb Sesame oil
1 tb Sugar
1 ts Sherry
MMMMM----------------------SCALLION BRUSHES---------------------------
1 bn Scallions
Ice water
Using wet, hot towels, moisten the bean curd skin sheets and set aside
until ready to use. Cover with hot towels to retain the moisture. In
separate small bowls, cover the dried shrimp and mushrooms with a
little boiling water. When soft, drain and mince finely with a knife
or cleaver. Mince the ginger. Finely chop scallions. In 1 tablespoon
oil, stir-fry the minced shrimp, mushrooms and bamboo shoot, adding 1
tablespoon of the soy sauce, the sherry, sugar, flavor enhancer and
black pep- per to taste. After a minute, when most of the liquid has
evaporated, stir in the scallions and remove the filling to a
container to cool.

In a large, flat, rectangular pan, combine chicken stock and
remaining soy sauce. Dip a softened bean curd sheet into stock
mixture and lay out flat on a work surface. Sprinkle lightly with
filling.

Repeat dipping process with a second bean curd sheet, laying it on
top of the first and sprinkling it with a little filling. Cover with
a third sheet which has been dipped in the stock but do not sprinkle
with filling. Make sure all the corners of the bean curd skin package
are thoroughly moistened and gently fold into a 7x5-inch shape. Set
aside. Make a batter by combining the eggs with a little water and
beating. Stirring vigorously, pour the egg mixture into the flour.
The resulting batter should have the consistency of heavy cream. Add
more water if necessary. Heat oil for deep-frying in a wok to 300 F.
Moisten the whole pie with the egg batter and gently slip into the
hot oil. Increase the heat and cook, turning occasionally and gently,
until the pie is golden brown on both sides.

The pie may form pockets of air in the center and puff up. If this
happens while you are cooking it, prick them with the point of a
sharp pin. Drain well and cut in 8 to 10 rect- angular pieces. Serve
wrapped in a PANCAKE with SAUCE and a SCALLION BRUSH and garnish with
parsley and decorative radishes.

PANCAKES: Pour the boiling water into the flour and mix well with
chopsticks. Gather the dough into a ball and on a well-floured
surface, knead about 10 minutes until dough is smooth and satiny. Set
aside, cover with a damp cloth and let rest about 15 minutes. After
resting, roll dough into a cylandrical shape about 1-1/2 inches in
diameter. Cut crosswise into 12 rounds. Lightly brush some oil on one
side of each piece.

Place two pieces together with the oiled sides together, resembling a
little sandwich. Roll each sandwich into a 6 to 7-inch circle. Cook
the dough circles one at a time on an ungreased skillet over low heat
1 minute, then turn over. When very lightly browned, remove from heat
and carefully separate into individual pancakes. Serve immediately or
reheat by heating them over a small quantity of water.

SAUCE: Combine all ingredients and serve as a sauce for the vegetable
pie or for Peking Duck.

SCALLION BRUSHES: Trim off root ends of scallions. Cut 2-3-inch
pieces off lower white end. Using the point of a small, thin, sharp
knife, score the white ends in 1-inch cuts, cutting away from the
greens. Evenly space 5-8 cuts a- round the circumference of each
stalk, so that the ends may open out. When cut, drop in ice water
until the ends curl.

Temperature(s): HOT Effort: DIFFICULT Time: 01:35 Source: UNCLE TAI'S
Comments: SOUTH POST OAK, HOUSTON. Comments: WINE| WAN-FU

