Title: ICE CREAM SANDWICHES - MARTHA STEWART LIVING
Categories: Desserts, Dairy, Soup/stews, Sandwiches
Yield: 24 Sandwiches
2 c  Plus 2 T all-purpose flour
2 tb Unsweetened cocoa
5 oz Semisweet chocolate
4 oz Unsweetened chocolate
3/4 c  Unsalted butter
1 ts Salt
1 1/2 c  Sugar
3 lg Eggs, at room temperature
1 pt Each strawberry, vanilla, &
-chocolate ice cream
1. Combine flour and cocoa and set aside. Melt together chocolates and
butter in medium bowl set over simmering water. Stir with a wooden
spoon until smooth. Add salt and sugar, stirring until sugar is
almost completely dissolved, about 5 minutes. Remove bowl from heat.
Beat in eggs one at a time, then fold in flour mixture until well
combined. Let dough cool slightly in bowl; it will be very soft.
Divide into quarters and spoon onto plastic wrap. Flatten each piece
of dough with a wooden spoon, wrap well, and refrigerate for at least
2    hours or overnight.

2. When dough is firm, cut each piece in half. Cover a work surface
with plastic wrap. Place piece of dough on the plastic and cover with
another sheet; roll out to a thickness of 1/8 inch. Keeping dough in
plastic, transfer to a baking sheet; place in freezer. Repeat process
until all dough is and rolled out. Stack sheets of dough in freezer
and chill until very firm, about 30 minutes,

3. Heat oven to 350'. Line 1 baking sheet with parchment paper. Remove
sheets of dough from freezer one at a time. Place on a
parchment-lined work surface and peel off plastic wrap. Using a 2
1/2- inch round cookie cutter, cut out dough and transfer circles to
baking sheets. Work quickly to prevent the dough from becoming too
soft.

4. Bake until cookies are firm to the touch, 14 to 16 minutes, turning
baking sheet halfway through baking. Remove from oven and let cookies
cool slightly on pan. Transfer to a wire rack to cool completely.

5. While cookies are baking, transfer ice cream (working with one
flavor at a time) to the bowl of an electric mixer fitted with a
paddle attachment. Place ice cream in refrigerator to soften
slightly, about 15 minutes. Beat ice cream on medium-high speed until
soft enough to spread, about 2 minutes, or beat with a wooden spoon.
Set bowl in a second bowl filled with ice. Spoon some softened ice
cream onto a cookie and top with another cookie. Place sandwich in
freezer and continue process. After the ice cream has hardened, wrap
sandwiches tightly in plastic wrap. Chill overnight in freezer.

Martha Stewart Living/August/94  Scanned & fixed by Di Pahl

