Title: IMPERIAL ROLLS
Categories: Chinese, Vegetarian, Appetizers
Yield: 6 Servings
1/2 lb Cellophane noodles
2 lg Onions, sliced very thin
2    Green peppers, sliced thin
6    Cloves garlic, minced
2    Jalapeno peppers, minced
1/2    To 2/3 c sesame oil
7    Or 8 med shiitake mushrooms,
-sliced very thin
3    Carrots, shredded
1 c  Mint leaves, chopped
1 bn Basil, chopped
1 bn Cilantro, chopped
1    5" piece ginger, peeled and
-minced
3/4 c  Roasted peanuts, chopped
1/2 c  Soy sauce
3 tb Teriyaki sauce
3 tb Black rice vinegar
1 tb Sugar
Juice from one lime
Black pepper to taste
1 pk Rice paper rounds
Vegetable oil for frying
These crispy rolls are made with Vietnamese rice paper ~ huge, round,
translucent and very brittle.  If you cannot find these exotic rice
paper sheets, you can use filo dough instead (See Cook's Note). I
must say, the first time I used these rice papers I almost gave up
after only three minutes.  Be patient and practice a bit. Once you
get the hang of it, the rest will go smoothly. Be sure to use plenty
of water when spraying the sheets, roll as quickly as possible and
keep the sheets covered as you work.  A challenge indeed, but well
worth the effort. Rice papers as well as cellophane noodles can be
found in any Asian supermarket.

Soak the cellophane noodles in warm water for 2 or 3 minutes. Cut
into 4" lengths and drain.  Cook in boiling water until done, about 4
or 5 minutes. Drain and set aside.

Cook onions, green peppers, garlic and jalapeno peppers in the sesame
oil over high heat until wilted.
Stir frequently to prevent burning. When the vegetables are wilted,
add the shiitake mushrooms and cook over low heat until they are soft
but not mushy. Place in a large bowl and cool. When the mixture is
cool, add all the remaining ingredients except the rice paper and
vegetable oil. Taste and adjust seasonings.

To assemble:  Take one sheet of rice paper out of the package, dip in
a large bowl of water, or spray using a plastic spray bottle, and lay
out on a flat surface. Quickly place about 3 Tbs of the filling on
the bottom of the round and roll up, tucking the ends in as you go.
Seal with more water and set aside, seam side down. Make all rolls in
this fashion. Heat about 2" of vegetable in a large skillet. When the
oil it hot, but not smoking, add the rolls in batches and cook until
golden brown on all sides. Remove from pan and drain on lint-free
towels; do not use paper towels as the wrappers will stick to the
paper.  Serve immediately.

COOK'S NOTE:

If using filo dough, cut sheets into long rectangles, approx. 6x8"
long. Place some filling at the bottom of each piece of filo dough
and roll up, tucking in the ends as you go. Brush with melted
unsalted butter to seal. Cook in vegetable oil until golden brown.
Be sure to cover the stack of filo dough at all times with a damp
cloth to prevent it from drying out.

From "Glories of the Vegetarian Table" by Janet Hazen. Makes 6 to 8
servings.

