Title: INDIAN FOODSTUFFS
Categories: Vegetables, August, Reference
Yield: 1 Servings
None
(From Various Posters)

Tandoor(i) is an earthern (?) oven btw.  The famous vegetarian items
made with them are perhaps naan and 'tandoori' roti. Roti is a simple
Indian bread which may also be known as chapati to some. Naan/roti
with aloo mattar/panneer mattar/aloo palak etc. is a wonderful
combination.

> What are the hindhi names for the green (brown) lentils and orange
lentils > commonly found in "Western" markets?

i dont know about the green ones, but the red ones are masoor daal
(sometimes spelled masur, and other variants).

> Are the other types of lentils actually lentils or split peas? Are
they > obtained from an Indian/Paki store?

Mung daal is just split and hulled mung beans, the same little green
jobs used for generic bean sprouts by the Chinese & others. Tuvar
daal is also called toor daal, and comes in oily & non oily forms.
They look similar to Western yellow split peas (a bit bigger, less
brightly yellow, and flatter though).  In fact, i've seen some
recipes which suggest substituting yellow split peas for tuvar daal
if you cant get the real thing; won't taste exactly the same but it
works. SO neither daal is a pea or a lentil, officially, just some
more legumes. They should be readily available at any Indian or
Pakistani store; mung beans may be available at SE Asian/Chinese
groceries too, although maybe only the whole kind....

Masoor Daal, split red lentils Urad Daal, a small white lentil
normally used for making masla dosas. Chana Daal, garbanzo
beans/chickpeas Toor Daal, oiled split peas

>Masoor Daal, split red lentils >Urad Daal, a small white lentil
normally used for making masla dosas. >Chana Daal, garbanzo
beans/chickpeas

True, but most of the time Chana dal (no, not China Doll ;-)) refers
to a bean that looks a lot like split yellow peas, but a little
bigger and yellower.  It tastes very different though. Often roasted
and fried in small quantities as a spice.  No substitutes. Available
in Indian stores.

>Toor Daal, oiled split peas

Not split peas, but rather a dal of its own.  Looks like split yellow
peas, with kind of a dull yellow color. Used in sambar.A lot of
Indians I know say it's their favorite basic dal, but I don't happen
to like it. Also called Toovar Dal.

Comes in oiled and nonoiled form.

rfvc Digest V94 Issue #168 Aug. 12, 1994. Formatted by Sue Smith,
S.Smith34, TXFT40A@Prodigy.com using MMCONV.

