Title: INFUSED OILS POTENTIALLY HAZARDOUS 2/2
Categories: Info/tips, Vegetables
Yield: 1 Informed
F D A
Garlic
Oil, Infused
Homemade
===From the FDA National Bulletin Board Consumer Topic=======
UNREFRIGERATED GARLIC-, SPICE-IN-OIL MIXES POTENTIALLY HAZARDOUS FDA
has been receiving inquiries about proper storage of homemade and
commercially prepared chopped garlic-in-oil, garlic- in-butter and
garlic-in-margarine mixes.  FDA is warning consumers that such mixes,
especially those prepared fresh at home, should be kept refrigerated.
Left at room temperature, the mixes may cause potentially fatal
botulism food poisoning. FDA also is cautioning dietitians and food
service workers who plan or prepare meals at hospitals, nursing homes
and other institutions about this matter. The following may be used
to answer questions. Botulism is characterized by blurred or double
vision, speech and breathing difficulty and progressive paralysis.
FDA's warning is an alert to consumers and food service workers who
may not know that garlic-in-oil and similar herb mixes should be kept
refrigerated. FDA issued a similar warning in March 1989, when three
persons were hospitalized in New York with botulism poisoning after
consuming a commercially prepared garlic-in-oil mix that had been
stored at room temperature despite a "Keep Refrigerated" statement on
the label. As a result of that incident, FDA ordered manufacturers to
stop making garlic-in-oil mixes that rely solely upon refrigeration
for safety. FDA now requires that commercial mixes contain specific
levels of microbial inhibitors, usually acidifying agents such as
phosphoric or citric acid. The presence of these additives in
commercially prepared garlic products is disclosed on their labels.
FDA recommends that consumers not prepare any homemade spice-in-oil,
~margarine or -butter recipes for extended storage because the
protective additives used in commercial mixes are not generally
available for homemade products. Consumers are urged to refrigerate
all such products and to dispose immediately of any products
suspected to be spoiled or to have been stored unrefrigerated.
Clostridium botulinum bacteria are widespread in the environment and
may be found on various kinds of produce, including garlic, but their
spores are harmless in an oxygen environment. However, in an
anaerobic (oxygen-free), low-acid environment, the spores can
proliferate and produce the toxin that causes botulism.  FDA studies
have shown that garlic-in-oil mixtures can support Clostridium
bacterial growth and toxin production even when very few spores are
present.

