Title: IRISH SODA BREAD WITH HERBS
Categories: Quick bread
Yield: 1 Round loaf
-Sue Woodward
FROM:  THE TRELLIS COOKBOOK
4 c  Plus 1 tbsp bread flour
1 tb Fresh dill; chopped
1 tb Fresh tarragon; chopped
1 tb Fresh thyme; chopped
1 ts Baking powder
1 ts Salt
1/2 ts Baking soda
1 1/2 c  Buttermilk
1/4 c  Vegetable oil
1    Egg yolk
1 tb ;water
VARIATIONS:
SCALLION SODA BREAD:
1/4 c  Scallions; thinly sliced,
-instead of herbs
RAISIN SODA BREAD:
1/3 c  Raisins; instead of herbs
CARAWAY SEED SODA BREAD
2 tb Caraway seeds; instead of
-herbs
Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F.  In the bowl of an electric mixer
fitted with a paddle, combine 4 cups flour, the chopped herbs, baking
powder, salt, and baking soda (breaking up any lumps). Mix on low
speed for 2 minutes.  Place the buttermilk and vegetable oil in a
stainless steel bowl and whisk gently to combine. Gradually add the
buttermilk mixture to the combined dry ingredients while mixing on
low speed and continue to mix until the dough forms a ball, 30 to 40
seconds. Scrape the dough away from the paddle and turn the dough
ball over. Mix on low speed for an additional 30 seconds.

Flour a clean, dry surface with the remaining tbsp flour. Transfer the
dough ball to the floured surface and knead with the heels of your
hands until smooth. Form the dough into a round loaf. Pinch a small
handful of dough and gently twist, being careful not to tear the
dough from the loaf. Place the loaf, pinched side down, on a baking
sheet lined with parchment paper.

Whisk the egg yolk with 1 tbsp water, then lightly brush the mixture
over the top of the loaf.  Score the loaf by cutting a 1/4" deep "X"
into the top.  Bake the loaf in the preheated oven for 50 to 55
minutes. The bread is done if a hollow sound is heard when the bottom
is tapped with your finger.  Allow the bread to cool to room temp
before slicing.

Notes - the dough must be kneaded vigorously by hand; this should take
about 2 minutes.  Pinching and twisting the loaf to form a base will
give the finished bread a tighter and taller shape. This procedure is
not necessary; however, the finished loaf will be much flatter if the
base is not pinched and twisted as suggested. Rather than using dried
herbs, if fresh herbs are not available, use an equivalent amount of
chopped spinach. Author - Marcel Desaulniers

From the MM database of Judi M. Phelps. jphelps@shell.portal.com or
jphelps@best.com

