Title: Carol's Sketti Sauce
Categories: Sauces
Yield: 1 servings
1    Green bell pepper, minced
1    Red bell pepper, minced
10    Large - golf size mushrooms,
4    Very large ripe tomatoes, ch
1 lb Ground sirloin
1 lb Ground porterhouse
2 tb Olive oil
3    Medium onions, coarsely chop
2    Leeks, sliced (white portion    1 1/3 tb Oregano
1 tb Thyme
2/3 tb White pepper
2 tb Dried cilantro
4 tb Dried parsley
1 tb Sugar
2    Bay leaves
6 tb Minced garlic (more if desir
3 cn NO SALT added tomatoes
1 cn NO SALT added tomato sauce
1 cn LOW SALT chicken broth
2 cn Water (use the chicken broth
4    Ribs of celery & leaves, cho
Here is what I do.  I brown the meat in the olive oil. I add the onions &
saute till they are somewhat tender. I then add all the other ingredients.
Usually the canned ones first then the fresh ingred. Let this come to a
boil & then turn down.  Simmer with the stockpot cover OFF for 6 or more
hours.  Of course, you can use sooner. I like it to cook down & thicken.
Either way it is very good. Many times I add more mushrooms as I like them.
Do slice them thickly; i.e. 3 slices to one very large mushroom. I like to
see the mushrooms! SMILE. This isn't a traditional recipe for spaghetti
sauce.  It is something that has "happened" over the years. It finally
developed into what you see. My husband, Punky aka Hap, enjoys this recipe
very much.  I certainly hope you do too. I don't think I have forgotten
anything. Oh, we use the low salt stuff - you don't have to do that. My guy
had bypass surgery in Aug. so we are watching the sodium. I now make this
with ground turkey too.  It is very good with the turkey. Several Prodigy
members have tried this recipe. To my delight--they have liked it very
much.  I hope you do too.  Oh, yes, this does freeze well. I just made 16
quarts of this on Sunday. I usually add some more garlic when I unfreeze a
portion.  This seems to make it tastier. We love garlic in our sketti! I
also add some red crushed pepper flakes to my plate of sketti. Punky does
not like things as hot as I. Remember to adjust seasonings to your taste.
Enjoy. Carol Rheaume-Frischknecht l/l5 ll:03 PM PST

