Title: Trifle
Categories: Londontowne, Desserts
Yield: 6 servings
1 ts Cornstarch
3 tb Sugar
5    Eggs
2 c  Heavy cream;or whipping
-whipped
8    Citron slices;*
6    Strawberries; -OR-
6    Crystallized violets
1    Sponge cake;leftover
1 c  Raspberry Jam
1/4 c  Almonds, slivered
1/4 c  Brandy:*
3/4 c  Sherry
1 1/2 c  Milk
1 c  Heavy cream;or whipping
1    Vanilla pod
* Anne's note; I would use 1 cup sherry and not bother with the brandy *
Citron is larger than a lemon. The fruit is not eaten but the rind is used
as a decoration. Can be found in speciality stores, omit if you can't find
it

"Trifle, a favorite Victorian recipe, is the perfect party recipe. Make it
well ahead of time of time, so that the sherry and brandy have enough time
to seep into the cake. The charm of Trifle is its different textures. Since
these also look interesting , Trifle should be served in a glass bowl so
that the effect can be seen to full advantage. As an alternative serve it
in individual glass dishes."

Cut the cake into very thick slices and spread each piece with a generous
amount of raspberry jam. Arrange the slices on the bottom of a large glass
bowl. If you prefer to use individual dishes, divide the cake equally among
the dishes. Sprinkle the almonds over the cake slices, pour on the brandy
and sherry and allow it it to soak for about 40 minutes (but not longer as
the cake will becomes soggy. *Anne's note, I like it soggy, and left the
cake to soak overnight.) Bring the milk and cream with vanilla pod to a
boil in a double boiler. Remove from heat and discard the vanilla pod.
Mix the cornstarch with the sugar and eggs and gradually pour in the milk
and cream. Transfer the mixture back to the double boiler and stir until
the custard becomes thick and creamy; do not allow to boil.
Let the custard cool a little and then pour it over the cake. Let the
cake set and when it fully cooled, spread any remaining jam on top, then
cover with whipped cream.
Decorate the trifle with citron slices and crystallized violets or
strawberry slices. Refrigerate until ready to serve.

SERVES:6-8 SOURCE: _Great British Cooking: A Well Kept Secret_ posted by
Anne MacLellan

