Title: Tzimmes and a Gahtzah Tzimmes
Categories: Beef, Jewish
Yield: 6 servings
2 tb Flour
2 tb Schmaltz (rendered chicken
-fat) or shortening
1 c  Carrot stock
1 lb Beef plate brisket
2 lb Carrots
1/2 ts Salt
3 tb Brown sugar
EINBREN or THICKENING:
From "Love and Knishes".

"Tzimmes" is a word impossible to translate. Ask anyone, "What is a
tzimmes?" and you get the answer, "You don't know what a tzimmes is?" This
is not very satisfactory as you can see.

The closest I have come to an answer is that a tzimmes is a mishmash. Now a
mishmash is a hodgepodge and a hodgepodge is...not a tzimmes, believe
me...it's a big thing in anyone's life. A Gahntze Tsimmes is really
somethig to boast about--a big production! For instance, from a good
tzimmes, a cook is entitled to make a gahntze tzimmes. (Some people think
of a tzimmes as a dessert). In my opinion is a one dish meal usually served
as the fourth course in a six-course dinner. A Tzimmes can be made from
almost any ingredient. From my wall-to-wall carpeting I could make a
tzimmes, and from my new mink coat I am justified in making a gahntze
tzimmes.

Of course, there are some people who think not. You will find people who
will begrudge you anything. They will say, "She's got a mink coat so she's
making from it a gahntze tsimmes. I knew her when she only had a Persian
lamb."

From all these things you can make a tzimmes, but most tzimmeses are made
from carrots.

Carrot Tzimmes

Simmer brisket in water to cover till almost tender (about 1 1/2 hours). By
this time the water will have boiled down to about half the original
amount. Peel carrots and slice in half-inch rounds. Add carrots, salt and
sugar to meat. Bring to a boil, reduce heat and simmer till carrots are
very tender (about 45 minutes). Brown flour in a very small skillet,
stirring constantly to prevent burning. When flour is very light brown,
remove from burner. Add schmaltz and stir till smooth. Gradually stir in
carrot stock to make a smooth paste. Add this paste to the carrots,
stirring it carefully. Continue to simmer till stock has thickened (10 to
15 minutes.

