Title: Zuppa D'aglio - Garlic Soup
Categories: Italian, Soups/stews, Garlic
Yield: 8 servings
10    Basil Leaves, Fresh,
- Chopped
5    Sprigs Thyme Leaves, Fresh
2 ts Salt
ts White Pepper
1/2 ts Tabasco
1 ts Extra Virgin Olive Oil
2    Garlic Cloves, Sliced Very
- Thin, For Garnish
3    Heads Garlic, Fresh
1/4 c  Olive Oil
1 md Onion, Cut up up
2    Celery Ribs, Cut Up
1 c  White Wine, Dry
1/4 c  All-Purpose Flour
1 ga Chicken Stock
1 md Potato, Peeled And Cut Up
1 c  Whipping Cream
1.  Cut two of the garlic heads in half across and remove the papery outer
skin.  Put these cut side down on a very hot surface - a griddle or black
iron skillet - until they're black.  Peel all the garlic completely. 2.
Heat the olive oil in a large saucepan and saute the onions, celery, and
the garlic until lightly browned at the edges.  Add the wine and bring to a
boil. 3. Sprinkle in the flour and stir the pot thoroughly, but don't let
it brown.  Add the chicken stock, 1/2 gallon water, and the potato. Whisk
about the pot well and bring to a boil.  Reduce to a rapid simmer and cook
for about an hour and 15 minutes. 4. Strain out the solids from the soup,
and puree them in a blender or food processor, along with enough broth to
ease things along. Return the puree to the soup and restore the boil. Add
the whipping cream, basil, thyme, salt, pepper and Tabasco. 5. Heat the
extra virgin olive oil in a skillet very hot.  In it toast the slivers of
garlic until brown around the outside. 6 Ladle the soup into bowls and
garnish with roasted garlic slivers. Float a toasted, garlic-buttered slice
of French bread on top. Serves eight to twelve. Suggested wine: Marinasco
Chef Andrea Apuzzo writes of this recipe in his book "La Cucina di
Andrea's", "Garlic wears many hats. Most people think of it in its
aggressive, green, aromatic, sharp form. But when garlic is cooked slowly
for a long time, it takes on a sweet nuttiness that is every bit as
interesting as its more raw flavors. The sweet side of garlic is
exemplified by this soup." Andrea's Restaurant 3100 Nineteenth Street
Metaire, Louisiana 70002

