Title: ARMADILLO EGGS
Categories: Appetizers, Tex-mex, Hot
Yield: 1 Recipe
1/2 lb Shredded jack cheese
1/2 lb Shredded cheddar cheese
1/2 lb Hot sausage (like Owens or
.Jimmy Dean)
1 1/2 c  Bisquick
1    Egg, beaten
1 pk Spicy Shake N Bake
20    -30 jalapenos
The peppers can be fresh or canned, just be sure you drain well if
canned. You can also use the round mild cherry peppers instead.

Slice the peppers in half lengthwise down one side only and scrape
out the seeds. If you accidentally cut all the way through, just try
to keep the two halves together. Mix Bisquick, sausage and cheddar in
a large bowl. (Use your hands, and work those muscles!)

Get your assembly line ready: the peppers, the shredded jack cheese,=
the sausage mixture, the beaten egg in a shallow bowl, the Shake N
Bake in a shallow bowl, and a baking rack on a cookie sheet, both
coated with cooking spray.  Stuff each pepper with shredded jack,
then stick the halves back together, if separated. Grab a handful of
the sausage goo and wrap around the pepper in the shape of an
elongated egg. Dip in beaten egg= and roll in Shake N Bake to coat
evenly. Place on baking rack. When the peppers are all ready, bake at
350 for 25 minutes or till crisp.= NOTES: You can put the peppers
straight on the baking sheet instead of on a rack, but they wind up
flat on one side. Hey, they still taste just as good, though. Also,
don't be stingy with the sausage mixture. Be sure you cover the
entire pepper, or cheese could explode out the side while baking.
And, a final thought: I've heard it said that you can stuff the
peppers with cream cheese instead of shredded jack. I tried that
ONCE, and all I can say is that it takes more manual dexterity and
WAY more patience than I have. And I really didn't think the results
were worth it. But whatever way you decide to go, good luck.

(I tried cream cheese in both fresh and canned peppers and had good
results -- in fact the cream cheese didn't melt and run out like the
jack cheese did. Which reminds me -- after about 10 minutes in the
oven the cheese begins to melt and run.  When that happens remove
the= rack from the oven and turn the "leakers" up so that the cheese
doesn't all run out, then return the rack to the oven for the
duration of the cooking time. -- -- Bill.)

Compuserve's Cooking Forum, 1997 Superbowl

