Title: ARTICHOKE & PARSLEY FRITTATA ALA THE SAVORY
Categories: Artichokes, Eggs
3 lg artichokes
juice of 1 large lemon
Yield: 6 Servings
:
3 TB virgin olive oil -- (up to 5
TB )
1 lg garlic clove -- sliced
salt
:
15    peppercorns -- coarsely
ground in
mortar
:
:
1/2 c  parsley -- finely chopped
6    eggs -- lightly beaten
cn use up to 8 eggs in this
recipe
:
:
1/2 c  coarsely grated Romano
cheese
:

Break off the hard outer leaves of the artichokes; then cut off the
top two thirds of the greens. Trim the outsides, cut the artichokes
into quarters, and immediately put them in a bowl with cold water to
cover and the lemon juice. Remove the choke from each piece with a
knife; then thinly slice each quarter into 3 or 4 pieces and return
them to the water. Just before cooking, remove the pieces from the
water and blot them dry with a towel.

Heat 2 or 3 tablespoons of the olive oil in an 8-inch frying pan with
the garlic. When the garlic colors, remove it and then add the drained
artichokes. Give pan a shake right away to coat the pieces with oil,
then season with salt and pepper and add about 2 tablespoons of the
parsley. Saute' until the artichokes browned and thoroughly cooked.

Beat the eggs, season them lightly with salt, and add the rest of the
parsley, cheese, and the cooked artichokes. Wipe out the pan, add
enough of the remaining oil just to coat the bottom, and pour in the
eggs. Give the pan a shake to loosen the eggs, then lower the heat.
Cook, covered, until the bottom is golden. Slide the frittata onto a
plate, then turn it back into the pan, with the opposite side down,
and continue to cook until it is also nicely colored. Serve warm or
at room temperature, sliced into wedges.

This Italian-style omelet can be cooked either at the last minute and
served warm. or, to make it easier on the cook, ahead of time and
served at room temperature The artichokes are first fried in olive
oil with pepper and parsley and then cooked with the eggs. Use a
nonstick or seasoned frying pan to keep eggs from sticking. Makes 1
frittata, serving 4 to 6

Deborah Madison, The Savory Way -- she was founding chef of San
Francisco's Greens restaurant and is author of The Greens Cookbook.
Adapted for Mastercook by Brenda <adamsfmle@aol.com>

: Deborah Madison, The Savory Way
Recipe By

Date: Wed, 9 Oct 1996 15:53:43
From: Adamsfmle@aol.Com
~0400

