Title: ARTICHOKE HEARTS & POTATOES COOKED IN OIL & L
Categories: Vegetables, Side dish
Yield: 4 Servings
1 ts Whole fennel seeds
1 ts Whole black peppercorns
2 ts Whole coriander seeds
2    Whole bay leaves
4    Garlic cloves; peeled,
-- and lightly mashed
3 tb Lemon juice; plus...
1    Whole lemon
1/2 c  Olive oil
1 1/2 ts Salt; or to taste
1/4 ts Sugar
1    Boiling potato (about 8 oz.)
1 sm Onion
Tie up the fennel, peppercorns, coriander seeds, bay leaves, and
garlic in a cheesecloth bundle and drop into a 2-1/2 quart pot. Add 2
cups water and bring to a boil. Cover, turn heat to low and simmer 20
minutes. Turn off the heat and remove the cheesecloth bundle,
squeezing out as much liquid as possible.  Add the lemon juice, olive
oil, salt, and sugar. Mix and set aside.

Halve the lemon.  Cut off the long artichoke stems, if there are any.
1. Starting near the stem end, press back the artichoke leaves, one
by one, and then snap them off. Keep doing this until you have gone
past the bowl part of the artichoke that harbors the heat and have
reached the paler inner leaves.  Using a sharp knife (a serrated one
is particularly good), cut off the remaining leafy area and discard
it. Immediately rub all cut sections with a lemon half. 2. Scoop away
the "choke" in the center of the artichoke with a grapefruit spoon.
Squeeze a little lemon juice into this area and rub it in. 3. Using a
sharp paring knife, trim the outside of the artichoke bowl so there
are no more dark green sections left and the bowl gets a smooth
appearance. Rub these newly cut sections with lemon. Cut each
artichoke heart into four, again rubbing cut sections with lemon. Cut
and prepare the remaining artichokes the same way.

Peel the potato and cut into sections that seem roughly the same size
as the pieces of artichoke heart.

Peel the onion and cut it into eight sections.

Put the artichoke hearts, potatoes, and onion into prepared liquid and
bring to a boil.  Cover, lower heat and simmer for about 12 minutes.
Remove a piece of potato and a piece of artichoke. Cut off sections
of each and taste for doneness and balance of salt and lemon. You may
add more of either seasoning at this time if you wish. Cover and
simmer another 3 to 7 minutes or until vegetables are tender. Uncover
and cool the vegetables in the liquid.  You may refrigerate the
contents of the pot if you wish.

When serving, remove the cool (or cold) vegetables with a slotted
spoon. Do not serve the liquid.

Source: Madhur Jaffrey's World-of-the-East Vegetarian Cooking Typed
for you by Karen Mintzias

