Title: ARTICHOKE STEW WITH MUSSELS~ POTATOES & SAFFRON
Categories: Main dish, Stews, Shellfish
Yield: 6 Servings
MMMMM-------------------------ARTICHOKES------------------------------
2 lg Lemons, halved
5 md Artichokes
10 c  Canned low-salt chicken
-broth
2 tb Extra-virgin olive oil
1    Bay leaf
MMMMM----------------------------STEW---------------------------------
12 sm Red-skinned potatoes
1 tb Salt
1    Bay leaf
1 1/4 ts Mustard seeds
1/2 ts Celery seeds
1 ts (packed) stemmed saffron
18    Mussels, scrubbed,debearded
3/4 c  Chopped shallots
5 tb Unsalted butter
2    Green onions, finely chopped
1 bn Chives, chopped
Artichokes: Squeeze juice from 2 lemon halves into a large bowl; add
lemon halves. Fill bowl with water.

To prepare an artichoke for cooking, first cut off the stem. Starting
at the base of the artichoke, bend the tough dark green outer leaves
back and snap them off where they break naturally: continue until all
of the outer leaves have been removed, leaving a cone of tender pale
green leaves. Using a small sharp knife, trim the outside edge of the
base of the artichoke until it is smooth. Rub the trimmed edge with 1
of the remaining lemon halves. Cut artichoke lengthwise into
quarters. Rub the cut sides of these quarters with lemon to prevent
any discoloration. Using the small knife, carefully cut out the hairy
choke and the spiky purple-tipped leaves from each artichoke quarter.
Rub each cut area with lemon. Trim the tougher leaf tops from each
quarter so that all that remains is the choicest, most tender portion
of the artichoke. Cut quarter into two wedges. Places wedges into the
lemon water. Repeat with the remaining artichokes.

Bring the chicken broth, olive oil and bay leaf to a boil in a heavy
large pot (do not use aluminum or cast iron). Drain artichokes; add
to pot. Return to boil. Reduce heat to medium-low; simmer until
artichokes are tender, about 20 minutes. Using slotted spoon,
transfer artichokes to medium bowl. Reserve 1 cup cooking liquid in
small bowl.

Stew: Place potatoes, salt, bay leaf, 1/2 teaspoon mustard seeds and
celery seeds in large saucepan. Pour in enough cold water to cover
potatoes generously. Boil until potatoes are tender, about 20
minutes. Drain. Cool 15 minutes; peel. Stir saffron in heavy large
pot over medium-low heat until fragrant, about 2 minutes. Add
reserved 1 cup cooking liquid; bring to simmer. Add artichokes,
potatoes, mussels, shallots, butter and 3/4 teaspoon mustard seeds.
Bring to boil. Cover pot; cook until mussels open and potatoes are
golden, about 8 minutes. (Discard any unopened mussels.) Mix in green
onions. Season with salt and pepper. Divide stew among 6 shallow soup
bowls. Sprinkle with chives and serve.

Bon Appetit, March 1997

