Title: AUTHENTIC TEX-MEX FAJITAS
Categories: Beef
Yield: 1 Servings
2 lb Beef skirt steak
1/2    Onion; halved, slice thin
2 ts Ground cumin
2 ts Powdered red chiles
3    Jalapenos; (pickled) chopped
2    Cl Garlic; chopped
1/4 c  Lime juice
2 tb Jalapeno pickling liquid; *
1 tb Corn oil
1 tb Soy sauce; (optional)
1 ts Liquid smoke; (optional)
This is the liquid used to pickle and flavor the jalapenos. It is
basically white vinegar with added spices, and there is always ample
liquid in the jar or can to use in this recipe, without leaving the
remaining jalapenos dry.

1. Place half of the onions in the bottom of a nonreactive dish. Mix
the cumin, powdered red chiles, chopped jalapenos and garlic together
in a small bowl, then rub on all sides of the meat. Put the skirt
steak into the dish, on top of the onions. Pour the lime juice and
the jalapeno liquid over all areas to coat. Sprinkle the remaining
onions on top of the meat. Cover and refrigerate at least 1 hour, but
preferably overnight, turning once.

2. Preheat the grill or broiler until hot. Fajitas need to cook
close to a very high heat source, in order to sear the outside but
still leave the interior medium rare. Mix together the oil and, if
you are using them, the soy sauce and liquid smoke. Brush or spoon
the oil mixture onto the meat surfaces. Grill or broil about 2 to 3
minutes on each side, or until the outside is brown and slightly
charred, and the inside is still slightly pink.

3. Remove the meat to a cutting board. Let sit 5 minutes before
slicing. Cut the meat into thin strips that can be easily rolled into
tortillas. Serve with warm, soft flour tortillas and fresh Pico de
Gallo or Salsa Fresca.

NOTES:

Fajitas are pure Tex-Mex food. They originated along the Rio Grande
River on the Texas-Mexico border and were eaten by cattle wranglers.
The skirt steak is the traditional cut used and was reserved
primarily for the chief cowboy. Other cuts of beef can be
substituted, such as flank steak or sirloin, but the skirt is by far
the most tender, flavorful and authentic.

You might be wondering where the cast-iron griddle with the sizzling
bell peppers and onions are in this recipe. While such a serving
method may be dramatic, it is an affectation developed mainly by
chain restaurants and is in no way a part of true Tex-Mex fajitas.
You may go ahead and add it, but I am still partial to the clean,
simple taste of hot grilled meat topped solely with fresh tomato
salsa and blanketed in warm, soft tortillas. I do make two minor
additions in my recipe when oven-broiling: I add soy sauce to help
the thinly cut steaks brown quicker, and I use bottled "liquid smoke"
to replicate the flavors created by the more desirable method of
charcoal-grilling. Otherwise, this recipe is as authentic as it gets.

