Title: AVOCADO & POTATO SALAD WITH HORSERADISH
Categories: Harned 1994, Herb/spice, Salads, Side dish, Vegetables
Yield: 1 Salad
2 lb New potatoes; scrubbed
1/4 c  Olive oil
1 1/2 tb Red wine vinegar
Salt
1/2 c  Sour cream
1/2 c  Plain yogurt
2 tb Prepared horseradish
1/4 c  Fresh dill sprigs
-- loosely packed
-- thick stems removed
3    Celery ribs; strings removed
-- cut in 1/4" crescents
-- (1 cup)
2 md Avocados* or 1 lg. avocado
1 tb Lime juice; freshly squeezed
Freshly ground black pepper
*Choose avocados that are firm, with just a slight give. If the
avocado is soft enough to hold an indentation, it's overripe and
won't have the rich nutty flavor that you want for this salad.

Bring water to a boil in the bottom of a vegetable steamer. Cut
potatoes in half; place them in the steamer basket. Cover and steam
until they are cooked through, about 20 minutes. Remove the potatoes
from the heat and allow them to cool slightly.

While potatoes are cooking, whisk oil and vinegar together in a large
bowl. Season to taste with salt; set aside. When potatoes are cool
enough to handle without burning your fingers, cut them in 1" cubes.
Toss them in the oil and vinegar so they are coated well, and set
them aside to cool to room temperature, tossing occasionally.

In a small bowl, whisk together the sour cream, yogurt and
horseradish. Mince the dill and add it to the sour cream mixture,
stirring well.

When potatoes have cooled to room temperature, add celery and toss to
combine.  Then add the sour cream mixture; toss again.

Halve, pit and peel the avocados.  Cut them into 1" cubes; place in a
small bowl with the lime juice. Toss so the cubes are moistened with
the juice. Then add the avocados, with all of the lime juice, to the
potatoes; toss gently until they are well distributed and coated with
the dressing. Add pepper and additional salt to taste, and either
serve immediately or chill for 30 minutes and then serve.

While Loomis says that this salad does not keep well and shouldn't be
counted on for leftovers, she says that it's one of the most popular
potato salads she's ever made.

Yield: 6 to 8 servings.

From _Farm House Cookbook_ by Susan Herrmann Loomis. New York: Workman
Publishing Company, Inc., 1991.  Pp. 267-268. ISBN 0-89480-772-2.
Electronic format by Cathy Harned. Submitted By CCH@SALATA.COM (CATHY
HARNED)  On   14 JAN 96 090105 -0800

