Title: AVOCADO TERRINE
Categories: Appetizers, Fruits
Yield: 6 Servings
--Terrine Mix--
4    Avocado peeled, seeded
-mashed.
2 ts Dijon Mustard
1 ts Worcestershire sauce
Lemons to Squeeze
1/2 pt Whipping Cream
1    Avocado peeled, rubbed with
-lemon and sliced 1/2 inch
-thick.
--Sauce--
3    Medium or 4 Large ripe
-plum tomatoes, peeled and
-seeded
Squeeze of Lemon Juice
1 oz Heavy Cream
Fresh Basil
--Garnish--
3    Medium shrimp per serving.
-peeled, deveined, lightly
-poached.
2    Basil Leaves (whole)
As you cut avocados drizzle lemon juice on them so that they will not
darken. Mash avocados in a bowl and add the mustard and worcestershire
sauce. In a separate bowl lightly whip the 1/2 pint of whipping
cream. The cream should be a little loose, soft peak stage is the
technical term. Fold cream into avocado mixture.
Place parchment paper in a standard bread pan so that there is enough
paper to cover the top of the filled terrine. Spray the parchment with
release spray. Fill the terrine with 1/2 of the mixture, and
refrigerate for 20 to 30 minutes. Remove terrine from refrigerator,
slice the extra avocado and drizzle lemon juice on it to keep it from
darkening, place the slices on the top of the chilled mixture. Pour
other 1/2 of the avocado melange on top. Drizzle some lemon juice on
top and fold parchment paper over top. Refrigerate for 35 to 40
minutes. While the terrine is chilling, peel devein and barely poach
the shrimp, let the shrimp cool in the poaching liquid if possible.
Set the shrimp aside for the garnish. Separate nice looking basil
leaves for garnish.
Prepare the sauce; roughly cut the tomato into bite size pieces,
place in a small frying pan or saucepan and stew them slightly. Add a
little lemon juice and the cream, mix in a few stray leaves of the
basil cut into strips. The goal is to quickly cook off some of the
liquid. Let this sauce cool to room temperature or below before
saucing the dishes.
To unmold, sit the terrine in some warm water for 1 minute or less,
and unmold onto a platter. Slice into 3/4 inch thick pieces and place
the shrimp and basil on the plate with the terrine. Spoon some of the
basil rich sauce over the top.

