Title: AZAFRAN SOUP WITH SPINACH GREENS & YELLOW CORNMEAL DUMPLI
Categories: Native amer, Soups
Yield: 6 Servings
MMMMM-----------------YELLOW CORNMEAL DUMPLINGS----------------------
1 c  Ground yellow cornmeal
3/4 c  All purpose flour
2 ts Baking powder
1 ts Salt
1 ts White pepper
2 1/2 ts Sugar
1 ts Unsalted butter, softened
2 c  Chicken stock
MMMMM------------------------AZAFRAN SOUP-----------------------------
6 c  Water
2 tb Azafran (see note)
1 ts Salt
1/2 ts White pepper
3 c  Chicken stock
2    Yellow summer squash, diced
3 c  Corn kernels
1    Bunch spinach, washed and
-stemmed
To make the dumplings, combine the cornmeal, flour, baking powder,
salt, pepper, and sugar together in a bowl.  Add the butter and milk
and mix well to make a batter that is moist but not sticky.  If the
dough is too moist, knead in a little more flour.  Divide the dough
into 1" balls, flatten, and shape into small triangles.

Pour the chicken stock into a pot and bring to a boil over medium
heat. Reduce the heat to a simmer and drop in the dumplings.  Cook 3
to 4 minutes, until tender and cooked all the way through.  Remove
the dumplings from the stock and set aside.

For the soup, heat 2 cups of the water and the azafran in a large
saucepan over medium-high heat until the liquid has reduced by half,
about 7 minutes.  Pour through a fine sieve, discard the azafran, and
return the liquid to the saucepan.  Add salt, pepper, stock, and the
remaining 4 cups of the water and bring to a boil over medium-high
heat. Add squash, reduce the heat ans simmer 5 minutes.  Add cork
kernels and simmer another 5 minutes.  Add dumplings and spinach,
cook 2 minutes, and serve immediately.

**Note**  Azafran, also called Native American saffron my the American
Indians, is an herb that is actually fine threads from the stigma of
the safflower plant.  Despite the name, azafran is not the same as
saffron, which is an expensive spice derived from the crocus plant in
the iris family.  (Saffron can be substituted for azafran, though:
use 1 pinch of saffran for 2 tablespoons of azafran).

Azafran is commonly sold in Latin American markets and specialty herb
stores.  It can also be ordered by mail.  It is best stored in a cool
dark place and will last several months in a sealed plastic or glass
container.

From "Native American Cooking," by Lois Ellen Frank

