Title: Arroz Con Pato (Braised Duck with Coriander Rice)
Categories: So. america, Main dish, Poultry
Yield: 4 servings
1 c  Bock beer; in not available
;use 1 additional cup of
;light beer
2 c  Long grain rice; raw
1 c  Fresh coriander; finely
;chopped
1 c  Cooked fresh green peas; or
;thoroughly defrosted frozen
;peas
1/4 c  Fresh lemon juice
1/2 ts Cumin seeds; ground
1 ts Salt
1/4 ts Black pepper; freshly ground
1    Duck (4 to 5 pound); cut
;into 6 to 8 serving pieces
;and trimmed of all fat
1/4 c  Olive oil
24 oz Light (color) beer
In a small bowl combine the lemon juice, cumin seeds, 1/2 teaspoon
salt and 1/8 teaspoon pepper.  With your fingers brush the pieces of
duck on all sides with the mixture.  Place the duck on a plate, cover
with foil, and let it rest at room temperature for 3 hours, or
refrigerated for 6 hours.
in a heavy 4 to 5 quart flameproof casserole or saucepan, heat the
oil over high heat until a light haze forms above it.  Add the duck
and brown it well on all sides, turning it frequently.  Drain off and
discard all but 2 tablespoons of fat from the casserole.  Add the
beer, bring to a boil over high heat, meanwhile scraping into it any
brown bits from the bottom and sides of the pan.  Reduce the heat to
low, cover the casserole and cook the duck for 45 minutes, or until a
leg shows no resistance when pierced with the tip of a knife.
Transfer the duck to a heated plate and cover it with foil to keep it
warm.
Pour off the cooking liquid from the casserole, strain, measure and
return 3 1/2 cups of it, and discard the rest.  Bring to a boil over
high heat, then stir in the rice and return to a boil.  Reduce the
heat to low, cover the casserole and simmer undisturbed for 20
minutes, or until the rice has absorbed all the cooking liquid.  Stir
in the coriander, peas, 1/2 teaspoon of salt and 1/8 teaspoon of
pepper. Arrange the duck on the rice; cover the casserole and return
it to low heat for a few minutes to heat the duck through.  Serve
from the casserole, or mound the rice and peas in the center of a
serving platter and arrange the pieces of duck on top.

34 of 108

Time/Life 'Foods of the World', Recipes: Latin American Cooking

Earl Cravens earl.cravens@mgmtsys.com
Date: 09-16-94
From: Earl Cravens

