Title: Atjar Tjampoer
Categories: Asian, Side dish, Vegetable
Yield: 1 batch
1 tb Oil
150 ml Vinegar
100 g  Bean sprouts/shoots
1 tb Sugar
1 ts Powdered ginger
1 ts Kunjit/kurkuma
1 ts Sambal ulek
100 g  Carrots
Salt
100 g  Green beans
4    Scallions
100 g  White cabbage
2    Toes of garlic
1/4    Cucumber
Cut carrot into the size of matches. Cut beans in 1" pieces. Chafe the
cabbage. In a pan with a little water and salt, boil the vegetables
for 5 minutes. Drain. Cut cucumber in *small* cubes.

Peel scallions and garlic. Put in kitchen machine; cut to paste. Mix
with sambal, kunjit and ginger.

Heat oil in a frying pan.  Fry the herb-mixture for 2 minutes. Add
vinegar and sugar; stir to dissolve sugar. Add all vegetables (also
the ones not cooked yet); add a *little* water if there is too little
liquid. Boil softly for 2 minutes. Put in a bowl and let cool.

You can also preserve it by putting the hot veggies in sterilized
screw-lid jars (metal lids with a 'dome' in the middle are quite
handy, I always save jam-jars when they're empty); add liquid as
well. Screw the lids on. Place jars upside down until cooled
completely (the 'dome' in the lid will be down, this is to check if
the jar closed well). Can be kept for at least a year (store in dark
place to avoid having the color goes away). Nice as a present!

Kunjit or kurkuma is a herb. If I look on the jar, it says 'powdered
yellow-root'.  It is used to color this dish, and other dishes as
well. In that way it is much like saffron, although kunjit tastes a
little bitter.

Sambal ulek [INDONESIA]:  Used as an accompaniment and in cooking.
Made by crushing fresh red chilis with a little salt.  Remove the
seeds from the chilis, chop finely, then crush with salt using a
pestle and mortar. Three chilis will make about 1 tablespoon sambal
ulek. Also available ready-prepared in small jars from Oriental
stores and some delicatessens.

This is a refreshing side dish made of crisp, sweet-and-sour
vegetables. Goes really well with Nasi Goreng. The dish can be kept
in the fridge for a few days.

From: Stephanie V. Dijck.  Date: 11 Oct 94.  Formatted by Cathy Harned
Submitted By CATHY HARNED   On   10-16-94

