Title: Basic White Hand Bar
Categories: Homemade, Information
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM--------------------YIELD: 1 HALF POUND-------------------------
1 c  Fat; rendered and strained
SUPPLIES
1 c  Cold water
2 ea Tb Pure lye crystals
Two 1-quart lye-proof cooking pots (stainless steel, stoneware, or
enameled cast iron) rubber work gloves goggles, safetey glasses, or
face shield face mask 1 cup white. vinegar (used as safety precaution
only) stainless steel or wooden spoon dairy, meat, or candy
thermometer hand eggbeater flexible plastic soap molds, such as
margarine tubs ur cardboard or wooden boxes lined with plastic wrap.
BE SAFE. Lye is very caustic it can destroy skin by chemical action.
handle it very carefully. This is a basic, pure bar of soap. Adding
oils, coloring, or scents makes it richer, prettier. or more
fragrant. Place water in a lye-proof pot. Put on rubber gloves and
other safety gear. Have the vinegar handy. Very slowly add lye
crystals to water, constantly stirring until lye is dissolved. As lye
is added to water, the water temperature will rise to around 150
degrees F. Place the thermometer in the water and allow it to cool to
95 to 98 F. As the water is cooling, slowly heat rendered fat in a
lye-proof pot until iL reaches 95 to 98 F. When both lye and fat are
in the same 95 to 98 F temperature range, slowly pour lye into fat,
stirring constantly until well-mixed. Beat mixture very. gently with
the eggbeater to the consistency of thick honey. Avoid splashing.
Pour the mixture into, molds. Cover with a blanket and set aside to
dry for 24 hours, well away from children or pets. After 24 hours,
carefully turn the soap out of the molds and leave in a dark, airy
place for at least two weeks. A fine white powder may appear on the
surface when the soap is a few days old. This is sodium carbonate.
Wash it away when the soap is mature; it tends to make the skin dry.
Note: Lye is crystalline sodium hydroxide or potassium hydroxide It
is usually sold in the drain cleaner section of supermarkets and
hardware stores Buy pure lye crystals or flakes. not lye sold as a
liquid drain cleaner. Red devil is the most common brand available.
Source: Rodale's Book of Practical Formulas Typed by Fran McGee

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   10-07-94

