Title: Beef and Onion Stew (Le Miroton)
Categories: French, Meat, Main dish, Beef
Yield: 4 servings
Stock, Pot-au-Feu broth, or
Canned beef broth.
1 sm Bay leaf
1    Sprig fresh thyme, or sub-
Stitute 1 t dried.
1 T  Dijon-type mustard, or to
Taste
Fresh bread crumbs
1/3 c  Chopped fresh parsley
1/2    Lemon, juice
1 lb Leftover beef (preferably
From Pot-au-feu, or from
Roast beef) sliced as thinly
As possible
4 T  Butter
3 md Yellow onions, sliced thinly
And separated into rings
Flour
1 T  Plus, red wine vinegar, to
Taste
-MIKE'S KITCHEN-

This recipe is an excellent use for leftover beef. Though there are
several variations possible for a Miroton (mushrooms, tomatoes,
garlic), the predominate flavor is always onions, which are made into
a sharp sauce. Preferably, the leftover beef will be from a
pot-au-few that has been tenderized by long poaching, but roast beef
can work as well. It will just need more baking time. The following
is my favorite variation for a Miroton:
Make sure the beef is chilled for easy slicing. Then, slice as
thinly as possible. Set aside. In a large skillet, melt the butter
and lightly saute the onions. When golden and very soft, about 10
minutes, sprinkle them with enough flour to make a light roux. Stir
the mixture thoroughly for 2 - 3 minutes before adding the vinegar
and mustard. Continue stirring, adding enough stock or Pot-au-Feu
broth to make a thin sauce. Add the spices. Bring the sauce to a
boil, then lower heat and simmer for about 30 minutes.
Assembly: Pour a layer of sauce into a shallow baking dish.
Layer meat slices, always overlapping, alternating with more of the
sauce. You should end up with a final layer of sauce. Bake, covered,
in a 350 degree oven for half an hour, if meat was originally
poached, or for an hour, if roast beef. Check to make sure sauce does
not reduce too much. Add more stock if necessary.
When preliminary cooking is finished, sprinkle surface of dish
with a thick coating of fresh bread crumbs. Spoon just enough butter
over crumbs to moisten them. Return to oven for about 30 more
minutes, or until a golden crust forms. Sprinkle the top with the
parsley to garnish, and squeeze over it the juice of half a lemon.
Serve at once.
Variations: Add tomatoes, garlic, and/or mushrooms. Instead of
vinegar, use a little grated horseradish. In place of some of the
stock, use wine. This dish is very flexible. It is also economical,
but it doesn't taste like it!

