Title: Bidaoui Couscous with Seven Vegetables
Categories: Main dish, Moroccan, Veal, Vegetable, Pasta
Yield: 10 servings
1 3/4 lb Eggplant; quartered
1 1/4 lb Carrots; peeled
-- cut in 2" pieces
3/4 lb Turnips
-- peeled and quartered
2    Dried chiles
1 c  Chopped fresh cilantro
3/4 lb Medium potatoes
-- peeled and quartered
1 1/4 lb Pumpkin; peeled and cubed
Harissa
2 1/4 lb Meat from veal knuckle or
-- shoulder of lamb
-- cut in 2" pieces
2 1/4 lb Onions
1 md Savoy cabbage; cut in pieces
1 c  (2 sticks) + 2 tb. butter
1/2 ts Saffron threads
Salt; to taste
1 tb Black pepper
2 1/4 lb Couscous
4    To 5 tomatoes; peeled
-- seeded and quartered
Note: Couscous is made most easily in a couscousiere, a special
two-part pot with a steamer on top.  You can improvise your own
couscousiere using a large pot with a steamer that fits snugly into
the top: the couscous in the steamer must not touch the broth and
vegetables cooking below. Harissa, an exceedingly hot pepper sauce
sometimes served with couscous, can be found in ethnic markets or
gourmet food shops.

In the bottom of the couscousiere or in a large pot, place the meat,
2 lbs. of the onions (sliced), the cabbage, 1 stick plus 1 tb. of the
butter, saffron, salt and pepper.  Cover with 5 1/2 quarts of water
and bring to a boil over high heat.

Place the couscous in the steamer and set it over the steaming broth.
Seal the seam between the steamer and the pot with a thick paste of
flour and water so no steam can escape except through the couscous.
Reduce heat to medium; continue to steam for 30 minutes.  Remove from
the heat. Pour the couscous into a large shallow dish, pressing
gently with a wooden spoon to break up any lumps.  Allow couscous to
cool, then sprinkle it with about 1 cup of cold water, allowing the
grains to absorb as much as they will. Let the grains rest for 10
minutes, then sprinkle with up to another cup of cold water.  At this
point, the couscous can be set aside, covered, until you are ready
for the final steaming.

One hour before serving, return the meat and broth to a boil, lower
heat to medium, and add the tomatoes, eggplant, the remaining onions
(peeled and quartered), carrots, turnips, chiles and cilantro. Simmer
for 30 minutes. Meanwhile, in a separate pot, cook the potatoes and
pumpkin over medium heat in a little of the broth from the pot until
tender, about 20 to 30 minutes.  Keep warm.

After thirty minutes, taste the broth for seasoning.  Return couscous
to the steamer and seal as before.  Steam the couscous for 20
minutes, then remove from the heat and spread out in the large
shallow dish. Stir in the remaining butter and as much broth as the
couscous will absorb.

To serve, heap couscous in the center of a large round dish, make a
well in the center, and fill it with the meat and vegetables.  Serve
remaining broth separately.  Offer harissa on the side to mix into
the broth.

The authors write: "Like all young brides, when Latifa Bannani-Smires
married she wanted to make her husband happy.  Since he liked good
food, she learned to cook, asking family and friends question after
question until she could flawlessly prepare the classics of Moroccan
cuisine. Soon Latifa was providing the same information for other
young brides just starting to find their way in the kitchen.  'I
realized everyone needed the same information,' she says, 'but there
was no basic book to turn to.' Latifa decided to write a primer on
how to cook the enchanting, sometimes exotically seasoned food of
Morocco. The book, _Moroccan Cooking_, was eagerly received and
eventually translated into English. In the process, Latifa discovered
she enjoyed teaching others about her native cuisine; she is now at
work on a second book focusing on the country's regional cookery.

"'To cook Moroccan food successfully, you must like to cook,' says
Latifa. 'Then you must know about the amounts.  But perhaps most
importantly, you must know how to make the sauce that is so important
to many Moroccan dishes.  No matter what the ingredients, the sauce
must have the right consistency: not too light, not too heavy, or the
dish won't taste right.'"

From Latifa Bannani-Smires of Morocco in "Cooking with Herbs" by
Emelie Tolley and Chris Mead.  New York: Clarkson N. Potter, Inc.,
1989. Pg. 281. Posted by Cathy Harned.
Submitted By CATHY HARNED   On   10-08-94

