Title: Bombe Coppelia (Coffee Ice-Cream W/praline & Rum)
Categories: Dessert, Ice cream
Yield: 1 servings
No Ingredients Found
BOMBE COPPELIA (COFFEE ICE-CREAM MOULD WITH PRALINE AND RUM FILLING
.................................................................

A rich and unusual dessert, Bombe Coppelia (bawm koh-payl-yah) is a
mouth-watering combination of coffee, ice-cream and praline. To make
this dessert, you will require either a large frozen food compartment
or a home freezer.
.................................................................
Preparation and cooking time: 12 hours  (10-12 servings) 3 pints
[3-3/4 pints] Coffee-flavored ice-cream, slightly softened in the
fridge. 8 ea Egg Yolks 4 oz [1/2 cup] Sugar 3 tb Dark Rum 1 tb Water
10 fl oz Double Cream [1-1/4 cups heavy cream] PRALINE: ******* 1 tb
Vegetable Oil 3 oz [3/8 cup] Sugar 3 oz [1/2 cup] Blanched Almonds
Prepare a chilled 3-pint [2 quart] bombe mould by spooning a little
of the ice cream into the base. Working quickly, so that the
ice-cream does not thaw too much, spoon scoops of the ice-cream into
the mould and, with the back of a metal spoon, pat the ice-cream
firmly against the sides of the mould. Press a chilled glass bowl,
1-inch smaller than the mould, inside the mould so that the ice-cream
forms a solid wall between the bowl and the mould. With a knife, cut
out more slices of the ice-cream to fill any gaps in the walls. Place
the mould with the bowl, in the freezer, and chill for 1 hour, or
until all the ice-cream is completely firm. Chill the remaining
ice-cream in a separate bowl for later use. While the ice-cream is
freezing, prepare the praline filling. Use a pastry brush, coat a
baking sheet with the vegetable oil. Set aside. In a small saucepan,
melt the sugar over very low heat, stirring constantly. Add the
almonds to the saucepan and cook, turning the nuts constantly with a
metal spoon, until they are browned. Remove the pan from the heat.
Pour the praline mixture on to the greased baking sheet. Leave the
mixture to cool for about 10 minutes, or until firm. Transfer the
praline mixture to a sheet or of greaeproof or or waxed paper and
cover with another sheet of paper. Pound the praline to a coarse
powder with a wooden mallet or rolling pin. Set the praline aside
while you prepare the bombe mixture. In alarge mixing bowl, beat the
egg yolks with a wire whisk or rotary beater until they are pale
yellow and very thick. Place the sugar, rum and water in a large
saucepan and place it over low heat. Cook, stirring constantly, until
the sugar has dissolved. Increase the heat to moderate and bring the
syrup to the boil. Boil until the syrup reaches a temperature of 230F
on a sugar thermometer, or a few drops of the syrup spooned into cold
water immediately form a soft ball. Remove the pan from the heat.
Slowly pour the hot syrup into the egg yolks, beating constantly.
Continue to beat the mixture as it cools. Beat in the praline
mixture. Set aside. In a medium-sized mixing bowl, beat the cream
with a wire whisk until it is stiff. With a metal spoon, gently fold
the cream into the praline mixture. Remove the ice-cream mould from
the freezer and take out the bowl. Pour the praline mixture into the
center of the ice-cream shell. Return the mould to the freezer and
chill for 2 to 3 hours, or until the praline feels firm. Remove the
remaining ice-cream from the freezer. Allow it to thaw for a few
minutes, or intil it is soft enough to spread, but is not melting.
With a rubber spatula, smooth the softened ice-cream over the praline
filling and the ice-cream shell in the mould. Cover the mould with
aluminum foil. Return the bombe to the freezer and freeze for 8
hours, or overnight. When you are ready to serve the bombe, unmould
it by dipping the mould quickly in hot water. Place a chilled plate,
upside down, on top of the mould. Holding the two firmly together,
reverse them. Serve at once. From: The Complete Vegetarian Cookbook
by Cavendish House

Submitted By SAM LEFKOWITZ   On   10-08-94

