Title: Brownie Cakes in a Jar
Categories: Cake/cookie
Yield: 1 servings
1/4 c  -Water
3 tb Unsweetened cocoa powder
1/4 c  Buttermilk
1    Egg; beaten
1/2 ts Vanilla extract
1/4 c  Walnuts; finely chopped
2    Canning jars;wide mouth
1 c  All-purpose flour
1 c  Sugar
1/2 ts Baking soda
1/4 ts Ground cinnamon (optional)
1/3 c  Butter;or Margarine
Here's one you can start out with, it makes 2 jars. Every recipe
technique is the same, just different ingredients.. Sterilize, two
1-pint straight-sided wide-mouth canning jars (specifically made for
canning jams and jellies) lids and rings by boiling for 10 minutes
(keep the lids and rings in the hot water until ready to use); set
aside. In a small bowl stir together flour, sugar, baking soda and
cinnamon, if desired. Set aside. In a medium saucepan combine butter
or margarine, water and cocoa powder; heat and stir until butter or
margarine is melted and mixture is well blended. Remove from heat;
stir in flour mixture. Add buttermilk, egg and vanilla; beat by hand
until smooth. Stir in nuts. Pour mixture into the prepared canning
jars; place jars onto a cookie sheet. Preheat oven to 325-degrees.
Bake for 35-40 minutes or until a pick inserted deep into each cake
comes out clean. Remove cakes from the oven, one at a time. Place a
lid, then a ring onto the jars and screw down tightly. USE HEAVY-DUTY
MITTS, the jars ARE HOT!!

Place jars onto your counter to cool. You'll hear a "plinking" sound.
If you miss the sound, wait until the cakes are cool and press on the
lids, they shouldn't move at all, that means they've sealed.

Store cakes in a cool, dark place. They should last up to a year--I
don't know, they've never lasted that long around here! If you'd like
to decorate them, place a wad of cotton in the center of each lid,
then place a piece of decorative cloth, about 3-inches larger in
circumference than the lid, (cut with pinking shears) on top of the
cotton. Screw the ring back on (by this time the rings can be removed
as the lids should be sealed). Use your imagination when
decorating--a hot glue gun works wonders (dried flowers, ribbon,
etc). These make WONDERFUL Christmas gifts.
Ellie Collin
FOOD AND WINE CLUB From: Joan Mershon Date: 06 Jan 94
Submitted By GAIL SHIPP   On   10-16-94

