Title: Candied Pineapple
Categories: Fruit, Can/preserv
Yield: 1 batch
-- canned in pineapple juice
2 2/3 c  Sugar
1/4 c  Light corn syrup
2 cn Unsweetened sliced
-- pineapple (20 oz. each)
-or-
Pineapple chunks
Drain pineapple, reserving the juice.  Measure 1 1/2 cups of the
juice into a large, shallow pan (a skillet or saute pan is ideal); if
there is insufficient juice, add water.

Combine sugar and corn syrup with the juice and boil the mixture,
uncovered, over medium-high heat until syrup spins a short thread when
drops are poured from a spoon, about 4 minutes.

Add the pineapple, which should fit into the pan in a single layer;
if you are using slices and they won't all fit, cut some into halves
or quarters. Cook the pineapple, uncovered, over medium-low heat,
shaking the pan and basting the pieces often until they are
translucent, about 45 minutes. If the syrup thickens too much and
threatens to caramelize at any point, add about a tablespoonful of
water and lower the heat a little. In any case, watch the pineapple
carefully after it has cooked awhile. Remove pan from the heat.

Lift slices onto wire racks and let them drain over a jelly-roll pan
until dripping stops.  (Save the syrup; use it to candy lemon or
grapefruit peel, or serve it over waffles or ice cream.)  Set the
racks on a clean pan and dry the pineapple in a 200 F. oven until the
surface is no longer sticky, about 30 minutes.  Cool the pineapple
again, pack it between sheets of plastic wrap in an airtight
container, and store it at room temperature or refrigerate it.

Keeps for several months at room temperature, in a cool cupboard or
pantry, or in the refrigerator.

Yield: About 1 pound.

Witty writes: "Unless you can purchase commercially candied pineapple
that tastes like fruit, not Kleenex, it's well worth while to convert
canned slices or wedges into a flavorful confection or baking
ingredient."

From "Fancy Pantry" by Helen Witty.  New York: Workman Publishing
Company, Inc., 1986.  ISBN 0-89480-037-X.  Pg. 308.  Posted by Cathy
Date: 09-24-94
Harned. From: Cathy Harned

