Title: Candied Orange Peel
Categories: Fruit, Can/preserv
Yield: 1 batch
1 1/4 c  Sugar
3 tb Light corn syrup
3    Med.-large oranges
-- bright-skinned
1 1/2 c  ;Water
To remove peel from the oranges, score it into quarters, if necessary
cutting a slice from the top and the base of the orange in order to
free the sections.  Using a blunt knife or the bowl of a spoon, pry
the quarters of peel off the fruit.  Save oranges for another use.

Scrape as much as possible of the white pith from the inside of each
peel section; a serrated grapefruit spoon does this fast, but the
edge of a teaspoon also serves.

Combine peel with enough water to float it generously in a saucepan.
Bring to a boil and simmer for 10 minutes.  Drain the peel, add fresh
water, and repeat.  Drain the peel again, add fresh water, and cook
the peel until it is tender when poked with a knife tip, 15 to 25
minutes. Drain the peel in a sieve.

When the peel has cooled, snip it into 1/4" strips (kitchen scissors
do this fast).

In the same saucepan (no need to rinse it), combine 1 1/2 cups of
water with the sugar and corn syrup.  Bring to a boil and boil for 3
minutes. Add the drained peel and cook at a simmer, covered, until
peel begins to look translucent; remove the cover and continue to
cook peel until syrup has reduced to a spoonful or two, watching
carefully toward the end to prevent burning.

Fork the peel onto wire racks to cool and dry.  If you'd like it to be
crisp, set the racks in a barely warm oven (heated by a pilot light, a
viewing light, or by being turned on briefly at "warm"); or just
leave the peel at room temperature until its texture suits you.  For
a sugary finish for peel to be served as a sweetmeat, roll the strips
in granulated sugar while they are warm, then dry them thoroughly.

Keeps for many weeks at room temperature, in the refrigerator, or in
a cool cupboard or pantry.

Yield: About 1/2 pound.

Witty writes: "Perfectly delicious just to munch, full of flavor for
cakes and other baking, and remarkably simple to prepare,
home-candied peel leaves only the slenderest excuse for purchasing
the commercial product. Double this recipe if you like - the timings
are about the same.

"These directions apply equally well to grapefruit and lemon peel.
Just don't mix various kinds of citrus in a batch - to keep the
flavors pristine, it's better to candy them separately."

From "Fancy Pantry" by Helen Witty.  New York: Workman Publishing
Company, Inc., 1986.  ISBN 0-89480-037-X.  Pg. 306.  Posted by Cathy
Date: 09-24-94
Harned. From: Cathy Harned

