Title: Cherries with Lavender Flowers
Categories: Dessert, French, Fruit
Yield: 8 servings
2 tb Lavender flowers
2 1/4 lb Fresh cherries; stemmed
1 1/2 c  ;Water
1/2 c  Sugar
MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
Lavender flowers
Combine the water, sugar and lavender flowers in a saucepan.  Bring
to a boil over high heat and boil for 10 minutes.  Remove from the
heat and let steep for 10 minutes, then strain, discarding the
lavender. Return the syrup to the saucepan, add the cherries, and
bring to a boil. Immediately remove from the heat, cover, and cool to
room temperature, then chill in the refrigerator.  Garnish with
lavender flowers before serving, if desired.

The authors write: "Entering the cool, dark interior of La Bonne
Etape in Chateau Arneau, you sense the warmth and humor of the Gleize
family - mother, father, and son - who run this hostellerie with such
care. Since the eighteenth century, it has been an inviting retreat
for travelers in Provence, first as a coach stop, then a station
hotel, and now as a beautifully appointed inn with a critically
acclaimed kitchen.

"Arlette Gleize, whose father owned the hotel, grew up here and met
her husband, Pierre, when his motorcycle broke down in front of the
hotel. He soon returned to marry her and work alongside his
father-in-law in the kitchen.  Their son, Jany, apprenticed with top
chefs in France and even spent some time at the Connaught in London
before returning home to share the running of the kitchen with
Pierre. While they tend to the seasonal menu, Arlette watches over
the dining room, turns masses of flowers from the garden into
beautiful arrangements, and transforms local fruits into special
conserves that guests enjoy with their morning croissants.

"The cooking at La Bonne Etape is basically Provencal, touched with
Gleize creativity.  'When you're in Provence, you should feel it in
the food,' says Jany.  To this end, much of the restaurant's produce
is grown in the Gleize's own garden or obtained from forty or so
small suppliers close by. Pierre has patronized these farmers for
over thirty years, and they often drop in to chat with Pierre and
Jany over a drink."

"Most of the herbs used in the kitchen come from the garden.  Even
purslane, considered a pesky weed by most but a favorite of Provencal
cooks, is cultivated at La Bonne Etape.  The crunchy and slightly
lemony herb is used raw in salads or pickled to eat with pates or
cold meats in place of the more expected cornichons.  Other herbs are
picked in the wild. 'Local people know exactly when to gather the
herbs at their peak of flavor,' says Jany.  'You have to know where
to pick them, too; in the mountains some places have better herbs
than others.'"

From Arlette, Pierre and Jany Gleize of La Bonne Etape at Chateau
Arneau/Provence, France in "Cooking with Herbs" by Emelie Tolley and
Chris Mead. New York: Clarkson N. Potter, Inc., 1989.  Pg. 208.
Posted by Cathy Harned.
Submitted By CATHY HARNED   On   10-08-94

