Title: Chilli Information Page 2
Categories: Chili, Information
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM----------------SOURCE: THE NATIONAL CULINAR---------------------
Written by Linda Beaulieu
While most Texans consider the addition of beans to any chili dish a
criminal act, red kidney beans are essential in northern versions
such as Cincinnati Chili and Boston-Style Chili, known for its
enhanced cumin flavor.  Some recipes call for chopped chili peppers;
others stipulate chili powder.  The combination of beans plus beef
allows cutting down on the beef while maintaining a nutritious dish.
Still other cooks insist on the addition of tomatoes, while some
disagree about the size of the meat pieces and length of cooking
time. To settle such differences, chili cooking contests were
started, especially in the Southwest. Probably the most prestigious
chili contest is the Annual World Championship Chili Cook-off in
Terlingua, Texas, the final showdown of preliminary winners and the
climax of the chili cook- off season, sponsored by the Chili
Appreciation Society International. This cook-off was first held in
1967 as an advertising promotion for the book, A Bowl of Red: The
Natural History of Chili with Recipes, by restaurateur Frank X.
Tolbert. The competition is held on the first Saturday of November
with participants from all over the world.  In 1974, chili became a
hotly debated issue in the United States Senate, where Arizona
Senator Barry Goldwater challenged Texas Senator John Tower to a
cooking contest. "A Texan does not know chili from the leavings in a
corral," Goldwater said to Tower. A panel of five experts judged
chili made by the two legislators. Goldwater's chili - made with
coarsely ground beef, pinto beans, tomato puree, chopped onion,
water, chili powder, cumin and salt - was declared the winner.  But
the debate continues.  Chris Schlesinger, chef-owner at the East
Coast Grill and the Blue Room in Cambridge, Mass., asserts that
"real" chili has no tomatoes or beans in it.  He learned to make a
soupy version of chili from an old roommate with Texas roots.
Schlesinger's "real" chili features cubed pork butt and lots of beer
~ six bottles in each pot of chili that serves six people.  Down in
New Orleans, Emeril Lagasse of Emeril's and NOLA restaurant fame
makes a mean black-bean chili, brimming with fresh cilantro and minus
any meat. Other recipes insist on a topping of cornmeal dumplings or
the use of garbanzo beans or hominy. Purists argue that five-alarm
chili - without beans or tomatoes - is mighty and meaty. Although
many chili recipes use ground beef, dicing the meat produces a more
interesting dish. While some chili lovers add beans to the meat,
purists serve the beans on the side.  These days chili has become a
favorite menu item in trendy restaurants.  Chili in its many forms
can be made fresh, but is also sold in cans, with or without beans,
and is often used in combination with other foods.  According to the
Department of Agriculture, chili con carne must contain at least 40
percent meat; chili con carne with beans, at least 25 percent meat;
chili hot dog with meat, 40 percent meat; chili mac (with macaroni
and beans), at least 16 percent meat; and chili sauce with meat, at
least 6 percent.

Submitted By SHERREE JOHANSSON   On   10-14-94

