Title: Chocolate Decadence
Categories: Chocolate, Dessert
Yield: 10 servings
5 oz Sweet butter
1 T  Flour
3 T  Sugar (to 4 tbsp)
1 x  One or a pair of the followi
1 x  Sauce bijou (cranberry/raspb
16 oz Semisweet or bittersweet cho
5 ea Large eggs, separated
1/4 t  Cream of tartar
4 c  Heavy cream
1 x  Raspberry sauce
1 x  Orange sauce
DIRECTIONS: Preheat oven to 425-F. Line 8x2" round cake pan with
parchment or waxed paper.
Melt the chocolate and butter in a small bowl placed in a barely
simmering water bath over low heat, stirring occasionally until
smooth. Or, microwave on medium (50%) for about 3 minutes and 30
seconds. Stir until completely melted and smooth. Whisk in egg yolks
and flour. Set aside.
Beat egg whites with cream of tartar in a clean, dry mixing bowl
at medium speed until soft peaks form. Gradually sprinkle in 1 Tbsp
sugar, beating at high speed, until stiff but not dry. Fold about 1/4
of egg whites into the chocolate mixture to lighten it. Quickly fold
in remaining whites. Turn mixture into prepared pan. Bake for exactly
15 minutes.
Remove from oven and cool in pan. Cake will rise somewhat,
especially around edges, but will still seem undercooked. As it
cools, it will sink in the center. This is correct! Let the dessert
cool completely in the pan on a rack. Cover and chill for several
hours in the refrigerator.
Run a knife or small spatula around the edge to release it from
pan. Warm the bottom of the pan on a stove burner on low heat for
just a few seconds; invert it onto a plate to unmold. Peel the
parchment liner from bottom and invert again onto serving plate or
corrugated cake circle (if you plan to frost it with whipped cream).
The cake circle will be 1/2" bigger than the dessert all around. The
dessert will be right side up and higher around the edges than in the
middle. It may be made to this point up to 4 days in advance. Wrap
well and refrigerate until needed, or freeze for up to 3 months.
To Serve Simply: Remove from refrigerator at least one hour in
advance. Cut in wedges and pass lightly sweetened whipped cream and
sauces separately.
To Serve More Formally: Whip cream with remaining 3 Tbsp sugar and
mask cake thickly with about 3/4 of it. (Instructions in back of
book say to use a turntable. Cover cake with whipped cream, smooth
top, then hold spatula at an angle to sides and rotate turntable to
smooth.) Scrape the remaining whipped cream into pastry bag and pipe
large rosettes or swirls around the top edge of the cake.
Source: Cocolat, Extraordinary Chocolate Desserts, by Alice
Medrich (owner of the Cocolat chocolate dessert store chain,
California). ISBN # 0-446-51419-5
From: Sallie Krebs (nee Austin), FidoNet Cooking Echo
Courtesy of Shareware RECIPE CLIPPER 1.1

