Title: Chocolate Bavarois with Hazelnut and Orange Cream
Categories: Dessert, Down under, Chocolate
Yield: 8 servings
-Wine and Cookbook 1985
-Source:  Australian Vogue
chocolate meringue strips: 5 egg whites 500 g sugar 50 g dutch cocoa
bavarois: 1 litre milk 16 egg yolks 500 g castor sugar 100 g dark
chocolate, melted over hot water 25 g cocoa 2 tablespoons gelatine
dissolved in a little warm water 1 litre thickened cream, whipped
hazelnut and orange cream: 12 eggs, beaten 250 g soft unsalted butter
200 g sugar grated  rind of 2 oranges 200 ml orange juice 50 ml
Amaretto liqueur 4 tablespoons Italian hazelnut paste or nutella 300
ml cream

To make chocolate meringue strips: beat egg whites until they hold
stiff peaks.  Gradually add 1/2 the sugar, and continue beating until
mixture holds stiff peaks.  Add remaining sugar about 1/3 at a time
and beat until you have a good shiny meringue.  Sift in cocoa and
beat a few seconds to mix well.  Butter biscuit trays, line with
greaseproof paper and butter lightly.  Pipe meringue on trays in long
strips with a pastry bag fitted with a 1 cm plain nozzle.  Cook on
lower shelves of a pre-heated 75'C oven for 1 1/2 hours and test to
see if meringues are crisp. Cool on trays.

To make bavarois: bring milk to the boil.  Beat egg yolks and sugar
until thick.  Pour a little hot milk on to yolks and sugar, whisk and
return to saucepan with remaining milk.  Cook over low heat, stirring
all the time, until custard coats back of spoon.  Allow to cool to
lukewarm. Whisk in chocolate, cocoa and dissolved gelatine. Chill in
refrigerator, whisking from time to time until mixture just begins to
thicken slightly. Beat cream until it holds soft peaks and fold into
chocolate mixture.

To assemble bavarois: line bases of 3 well-oiled 28 x 10 cm loaf tins
with foil.  Place 1 layer of chocolate meringue strips lengthwise in
tins. Spoon in layer of chocolate bavarois.  Repeat twice and place
any remaining meringue strips on top.  Cover with plastic wrap and
refrigerate overnight.

To make hazelnut and orange cream: place eggs, butter, sugar, orange
rind and juice into a large pot over high heat.  Whisk until thick -
about 3 minutes.  Place pot in cold water to arrest cooking and
continue whisking. Add Amaretto and hazelnut paste and cream, and
whisk in well. Continue whisking until sauce is quite cold.  Cover
and chill.

To unmould bavarois: hold tins in hot water for 15 seconds.  Turn out
bavarois on a flat surface to cut in slices.

To serve: pour hazelnut and orange cream on plate and carefully lay a
slice of bavarois on top.  Anders Ousbach. Bon-Appetit, Exec.Chef.
Magnus Johansson
Date: 09-24-94
From: Sherree Johansson

