Title: Cuban Style Black Beans
Categories: Beans, Rice, Caribbean, Main dish
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM---------------------------NOTES--------------------------------
This version of the preparation is the classic one amongst cubans, it
blends perfect with regular cooked rice (the whiteness of the rice
and the blackness of the beans), and served with meat dishes.
traditionally, it is served with platanos maduros, cooked ripe
plantains that are obliquely cut prior to frying, and are served as a
side dish after blotting with a paper towel. Ingredients: 1 pound of
black beans 1 large green bell pepper 10 cups of water
2/3 cups of extra virgin olive oil 1 large onion
4 garlic cloves 1 large green bell pepper 4 tsp salt
1/2 tsp black pepper 1/4 tsp oregano 1 bay leaf 2 tbs of white sugar
2 tbs of dry white wine 2 tbs extra
2 tbs of vinegar
virgin olive oil Directions: After washing the beans in a strainer,
place the top three ingredients in a pressure cooker at medium
pressure (about 10 #/ psi) for about 45 minutes. alternatively, let
the beans soak in the water with the pepper (sliced open) overnight,
and then boil for 45 minutes or until the beans are soft but not a
total homogeneous mixture! In a shallow frying pan, saute the onion
(diced), and the mashed garlic in the olive oil at medium heat(be
careful not to burn the garlic which is noble in that sense).  after
about 8 minutes or so (depending on numerous factors too superfluous
to name here) add the diced green pepper. while this is cooking, take
about 1 cup of the beans and gently squash them so as to make a thick
paste.  add this to the saute mixture and cook a couple of minutes
more. Heat up the beans with its water, or put the pressure cooker on
medium heat until it boils, and add the saute mixture being careful
that the oil is not too hot since it may cause hot steam to develop.
now add the salt, pepper, oregano, bay leaf and sugar, and cook in
low heat without covering for about 45 minutes.  be careful not to
evaporate all the water on the beans, if necessary add more, however
do not add too much since this will require you to boil it more time,
and in doing so will loose many of the ingredients volatile oils.
when the beans have cooked for the above time, add the vinegar and
wine and let cook for another 20 minutes. judge whether or not more
time is needed or more water(i prefer regular white wine that comes
in the jugs) is needed before declaring finito. the liquid in which
the beans are in should have the viscosity between molasses and maple
syrup-( I hope the analogy is not too ridiculous, but to serve the
dish in any other way to cubans, surely will cause eye gazing amongst
the guests. stir in the two tbs of oil before serving. traditionally
served on top of the rice, but can also be served on the side. some
people like to add crunchy real bacon bits after serving.

Submitted By ALLAN NANCOZ   On   09-28-94

