Title: Cuscuz De Galinha (Molded Chicken) 1/2 (See Dirs.)
Categories: So. america, Chicken, Main dish
Yield: 8 servings
1 ts Salt
1/4 ts Black pepper; freshly ground
1 lg Tomato; peeled, seeded and
;coarsely chopped (see salsa
;cruda), or substitute 1/2
;cup chopped, drained,
;canned Italian plum tomato
1 c  Chicken stock; fresh or can
SAUSAGE:
2 tb Olive oil
1/2 lb Chorizo; or other smoked
;spiced pork sausage, sliced
;1/8 inch thick
CHICKEN:
1    Chicken; 3 1/2 to 4 pounds,
;cut into 6 to 8 serving
;pieces
1/4 c  Distilled white vinegar
1/4 c  Fresh lemon juice
1/4 c  Olive oil
1/2 c  Onion; coarsely chopped
1/4 ts Garlic; finely chopped
1/4 c  Fresh parsley; finely
;chopped
1 ts Coriander seeds
1 ts Dried savory
1/2 ts Fresh mint; finely chopped
Molded Steamed Chicken, Cornmeal and Vegetables

THE CHICKEN:
Arrange the chicken in one layer in a large shallow flameproof
casserole or skillet.  In a small enameled or stainless steel
saucepan, combine the vinegar, lemon juice, 1/4 cup of the oil, the
onions, garlic, parsley, coriander seeds, savory, mint, 1 ts. of salt
and the black pepper, and bring to a boil over high heat.  Pour the
hot vinegar marinade over the chicken, turning the pieces to coat
them evenly. Cover the casserole tightly with aluminum foil or
plastic wrap, and marinate the chicken for 3 hour s at room
temperature or 6 hours in the refrigerator, turning the pieces
occasionally to keep them well moistened on all sides.
Over high heat, bring the chicken and marinade to a boil in the
casserole.  Reduce the heat to low, and simmer, uncovered, for 10
minutes. Stir in the chopped tomato and chicken stock and return to a
boil. Reduce the heat to low, cover the casserole, and simmer for 30
minutes, or until the chicken is tender but not falling apart.
Transfer the chicken to a plate, and remove the casserole from the
heat.
As soon as the chicken is cool enough to handle, remove the skin
with a small, sharp knife or your fingers.  Cut or pull the meat away
from the bones.  Discard the skin and bones, and cut the chicken meat
into strips about 1/8 inch wide and 1 to 1 1/2 inches long.  Strain
the reserved cooking stock through a fine sieve set over a mixing
bowl, then return it to the casserole.  Drop in the chicken strips
and set the casserole aside.

THE SAUSAGE:

In another skillet, heat 2 tablespoons of oil over high heat and
add the sausage slices.  Turning the pieces constantly brown them
quickly but lightly on both sides, then remove them from the pan and
spread them out on paper towels to drain.

27 of 108  page 1 of 2

Time/Life 'Foods of the World', Recipes: Latin American Cooking

Earl Cravens earl.cravens@mgmtsys.com
Date: 09-16-94
From: Earl Cravens

