Title: Doughnuts (Basic Recipe)
Categories: 1941, Doughnut, Breakfast
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM----------------SOURCE: THE GOOD HOUSEKEEPIN---------------------
3 T  Shortening
1 c  Granulated sugar
2 ea Eggs, well-beaten
1 c  Bottled milk or 1/2 c.
-evaporated milk and 1/2 c.
-water
About 4 c. sifted
-all-purpose flour
4 1/2 t  Baking powder
1/2 t  Cinnamon
1/2 t  Nutmeg
1/2 t  Mace
1 t  Salt
Sift together 3 1/2 c. of the flour, the baking powder, spices, and
salt. Work shortening with a spoon until fluffy and creamy, then add
sugar gradually, while beating with a spoon until light. Add eggs and
beat well with a spoon. Add the sifted flour mixture alternately with
the milk, blending well with a spoon after each addition. Add enough
of the remaining 1/2 c. flour to make a soft dough that is easily
handled. Chill 1 hr. or longer, in the refrigerator. (If desired, the
dough may be held in the refrigerator for as long as 2 days, and then
fried up as needed.) Roll or pat dough on a floured board to 1/2"
thickness, then cut out with a floured doughnut cutter. Form the
trimmings of dough and the centers into a ball, then roll and cut as
before. Fry until golden brown on both sides, and done, in 1 1/2" of
fat or salad oil heated to 370-F, or until a cube of day-old bread
browns in 60 sec., turning the doughnuts when the first crack
appears. Fry only as many doughnuts at one time as can float easily
on the surface of the fat. See Shallow Frying, p. 54. Remove from the
fat by inserting a fork through each hole, hold over the fat a
second, then drain on crumpled paper toweling. Serve "as is" or dust
with granulated or powdered sugar, or granulated sugar with a little
cinnamon added. This is easy to do, if you shake the doughnuts a few
at a time in a paper bag containing the sugar. Makes about 2 doz.
doughnuts. In using an electric beater follow procedure for
Shortening Cakes with an Electric Beater, p. 695, with this
exception. Mix in as much of the flour as the beater will accommodate
conveniently. Then stir in remaining flour with a spoon.

Submitted By SALLIE KREBS   On   09-28-94

