Title: Fillet of Steelhead Bonne Femme
Categories: Seafood
Yield: 4 servings
1/3 c  White wine
Salt and pepper
2 lb Fillets of steelhead
Cucumber and lemon slices
1    Bouquet garni
1/4 ts Thyme,
1/2 ts Tarragon
1/2 lb Mushrooms
Head, tail, backbone of fish
4 tb Butter
6    Peppercorns
1 c  Hollandaise sauce **
2    Shallots, sliced
1 1/2 tb Flour
1 c  Water
4 tb Milk
MMMMM---------------------HOLLANDAISE SAUCE--------------------------
1 pn Cayenne
1/4 lb Cold butter, 8 pieces
2    Egg yokes
Salt
Fresh lemon juice
This lordly French dish is prepared in a variety of ways, but
basically it is fish fillets served with two sauces and mushrooms in
between. The fillets from small salmon, walleye, lake trout, and
channel cat are all superb prepared in this fashion.
If the two sauces seem too time-consuming just note that this dish
is excellent if only the wine sauce is used.

Put the fish head, etc., peppercorns, and shallots into the water and
wine, bring to a boil, then simmer gently for 30 minutes. Strain and
set aside.
Arrange the fillets in a shallow glass or earthenware fireproof
dish that has been liberally buttered.  Add the bouquet garni.
Pour in the reserved fish stock and poach in a 325 degree oven for
20 minutes.
Saute the sliced mushrooms in 2 tablespoons of butter for 5 minutes,
coating and stirring a couple of times.  Reserve.
Prepare the hollandaise and hold it by covering with a lid.
Make the wine sauce by melting 2 tablespoons of butter in pan, then
stir in the flour and cook a few minutes.  Turn off heat, pour in the
liquor from the poached fillets, then stir and thicken over the fire.
Add the milk, then stir until it bubbles. Season to taste.
To assemble: lay the fillets on a fireproof dish and cover with the
wine sauce.  Now dot the top with mushrooms.  Ladle the hollandaise
sauce over all and glaze under the broiler.
Garnish with cucumber and lemon slices or with watercress.

HOLLANDAISE SAUCE

In a very heavy pot set over a flame tamer, whisk the eggs until they
are well blended, turn lemon-colored, and start to thicken. Be sure
heat is low. Add 1 tablespoon of lemon juice when thickening starts.
Start adding butter one piece at a time, whisking each piece until
is absorbed with the eggs.  Continue until all the butter is used up.
It should take about 2 minutes, at which point the sauce will be
thick. If at any point you sense that the is about to separate,
quickly add a teaspoon of cold milk or cream.
Now whisk in about 1 more teaspoon of lemon juice, a pinch of salt,
and optional cayenne.  Taste to see that the sauce is lemony enough
for your taste.

