Title: Fresh Fig Mousse
Categories: Dessert, Fruit
Yield: 1 mousse
1/4 c  Orange juice
1 1/2 c  Creme patissiere
1 c  Heavy cream
1 ts Strong vanilla extract
3    Egg whites
1 pn Salt
1 tb Granulated sugar
Bright-skinned orange
-- for grating
1 1/2 c  Sugar
1 c  ;Water
1 tb Strong vanilla extract
1    Long curl of orange peel
1    One-inch piece vanilla bean
6    Ripe figs or
2    4 oz. jars preserved figs*
-or-
8 oz Package figs**
1 tb Gelatin
Put sugar and water in a saucepan; bring to a boil. When mixture is
boiling, reduce heat and add 1 tb. vanilla, orange peel and vanilla
bean. Cook for about 10 minutes until the mixture becomes syrupy and
thick. Add the whole figs and poach them for about 25 minutes or
until they are fork tender.  Cool.

*(If using preserved figs, remove the figs and put the syrup, orange
peel, vanilla bean and the vanilla in a saucepan with 3 to 4
tablespoons of water.  Bring to a boil for 1 to 2 minutes.  Return
the figs to the hot syrup; coat them well with glaze, and cool.)

**(If using packaged dried figs, reduce the sugar to 1 cup and the
water to 3/4 cup.  When the sugar-water mixture described in
Paragraph 1 becomes syrupy, add the figs and remove from the heat.
All other instructions are the same.)

In a small bowl, combine the gelatin with orange juice and place it
over a pan of not quite simmering water.  Stir the mixture well until
the gelatin completely dissolves.  When the liquid is quite syrupy
and no longer grainy, add to the cooled fig mixture.

Remove one fig for a final garnish later and then place the other
fruit, orange peel and syrup into the jar of a blender.  Slit the
vanilla bean down the center with a sharp knife and scrape the seeds,
at random, into the mixture.  Blend at high speed for about a minute
or until the mixture becomes a thick honey-colored puree.

In a large mixing bowl, combine the cooled fig puree with creme
patissiere.

In a chilled bowl, beat heavy cream with 1 tsp. vanilla extract. Whip
the cream until it holds its shape well, but do not overbeat.

Dust the egg whites with a pinch of salt and whip them to a fine
froth. When soft peaks form, sprinkle on a tablespoon of granulated
sugar and then beat them hard until they hold their shape.

Combine the fig mixture with the whipped cream, gently working the
cream into the custard with a large rubber bowl scraper.  Immediately
fold in the drifts of egg whites.

Place in a bowl and refrigerate for about 4 to 5 hours.  Just before
serving, grate the rind of the bright-skinned orange over the entire
surface.  Snip the reserved fig into thin strips and ring the sides
of the mousse with them.

Yield: 8 to 10 servings.

Greene writes: "Edna St. Vincent Millay once called a collection of
her verse, 'a few figs from thistles.'  [This] collection of mousse
would hardly be complete without a dessert concocted of that
redoubtable fruit. This fig (use them fresh if you are lucky enough
to find them...) ripens into a lyric poem when combined with a
snippet of vanilla bean, some cream, and a zest for velvet on the
tongue."

From "The Store Cookbook" by Bert Greene and Dennis Vaughan.  Chicago:
Henry Regnery Company, 1974.  ISBN 0-8092-8885-0.  Pp. 252-254.
Posted by Cathy Harned.
Submitted By CATHY HARNED   On   10-03-94

