Title: Fried Catfish Po'boys
Categories: Fish, Cajun/creol, Main dish, Sandwich
Yield: 4 servings
1/2 ts Black pepper
6 tb Salad oil
4 ea French bread rolls - 6" long
Slightly warmed
1/2 c  Mayonnaise
2 c  Shredded lettuce
2 md Ripe tomatoes - sliced thin
4    Catfish fillets (4 - 6 oz.)
1/2 c  All-purpose flour
1 lg Egg
1/4 c  Milk
3/4 c  Yellow cornmeal
2 ts Cayenne pepper
1 ts Garlic powder
1 ts Salt
Rinse catfish and pat dry.  Measure flour into a pie plate. Beat egg
and milk together in another pie plate.  In a third pie plate,
combine cornmeal with cayenne, garlic powder, salt and balck pepper.
Coat half the fillets lightly with flour, then dip into egg mixture.
Dredge fillets in seasoned cornmeal mixture.

Meanwhile, heat 4 tablespoons oil in a 10-inch frying pan (or 6
tablespoons in a 12-inch frying pan) over medium heat.  Fry breaded
fillets until crisp and golden brown on one side, about 3 to 4
minutes, then turn fillets over and cook until fish is opaque in
center of thickest part, about 3 minutes more.  Drain fish well on
paper towels. Coat and cook remaining fillets.

Slice rolls on bread sections in half lengthwise.  Spread the cut
insides lightly with mayonnaise.  Inside each roll arrange 1 fried
fish filet and 1/4 of the lettuce and tomato.

Makes 4 servings.

Per serving: 846 cal./36 g prot./96 g. carbo/7 g sat/12 g mono./14 g
poly./.3 om-3/102 mg chol./1.264 mg sdm.

Catfish has long been the star of the favorite Southern social
institution, the "fish-fry".  Small, thin catfish fillets fry up
best. As an alternative to the crisp cornmeal coating we use here,
many cooks prefer to coat their catfish in fine corn flour, equal
portions corn flour and yellow cornmeal, or cornmeal and all-purpose
flour. Experiment to decide which coating you like best.  Additional
seasonings include dry thyme or oregano, seasoned salt, paprika,
lemon pepper or onion salt. Flavor the sandwich mayonnaise with
minced onion, dill pickles, olives or minced fresh herbs. (or try
Remoulade Sauce). Submitted By FRED TOWNER   On   10-12-94

