Title: Frittata with Caramelized Onions and Cheese
Categories: Casserole, Cheese/eggs
Yield: 8 servings
1 oz (about 1/3 c) grated
Parmesan cheese
1 tb Chopped fresh sage
3 oz Mild creamy goat cheese
3 tb Reduced balsamic vinegar*
2 tb Light olive oil
3 lg Onions, (about 2 lbs)
Quartered; & thinly sliced
Salt & pepper to taste
30    Garlic; finely chopped
8    Eggs
Heat 1 T olive oil in a large skillet; add onions, 1/2 t salt, and
1/8 t pepper. Saute onion over medium heat for 10 minutes to release
their juices. Add garlic and continue to cook about 40 minutes,
gently scraping pan with a wooden spoon to keep the onions from
sticking as they caramelize. (add a little water, if needed, to
loosen the sugars for the pan.) Transfer to a bowl to cool. Beat the
eggs in a med-size bowl. Stir in the onions, the Parmesan and the
sage. In a 9-inch saute pan with and oven proof handle,heat the
remaining T of oil to just below the smoking point. Swirl oil around
pan to coat. Turn heat down to low, then immediately pour in the
mixture. The eggs will sizzle. Crumble in the goat cheese, and cook
over low heat for 5 minutes, until the edges begin to set; then
transfer to a 325F oven and bake, uncovered, for 20-25 minutes, until
frittata is golden and firm. Loosen frittata gently with a rubber
spatula because the bottom will tend to stick. Place a plate oven the
pan, flip it over, and turn the frittata out. Brush the bottom and
sides with vinegar, cut into wedges, and serve warm or at room
temperature. Note: To cook entirely in the oven, combine vegetables
and eggs as directed, but don't add the cheese. Instead pour the egg
mixture into an oiled baking dish, then sprinkle on the cheese (this
keeps it from settling to the bottom) Bake about 25 minutes. *To
reduce balsamic vinegar, simply boil ordinary-not aged- balsamic
vinegar, in a saucepan until ut has reduced by half and has the
consistency of a thin syrup. Remove, cool and store in a sealed jar
indefinitely. Source: Fields of Greens, Annie Somerville Submitted By
JANIE BOURKE   On   10-02-94

