Title: Fruit Sweet and Sugar Free - Famous Cinnamon Rolls
Categories: Bread, Fruit
Yield: 9 huge rolls
1    Recipe Best Egg Bread
MMMMM-------------------CINNAMON ROLL FILLING------------------------
1/4 c  Butter, softened
2 T  Cinnamon
3 T  Flour
1 c  Walnuts
3/4 c  Raisins
1 c  Fruit sweetener
MMMMM--------------------CINNAMON ROLL GLAZE-------------------------
1/4 t  Vanilla extract
1/8 t  Almond extract
1/4 c  Non-instant dry milk powder
2 1/3 T  Unsweetened apple juice
3/4 c  Fruit sweetener
The night before, or up to a couple of weeks before, prepare the
cinnamon roll filling. Toast the walnuts in a 350 dgree oven for 7-10
minutes. Allow the nuts to cool then process them in a food
processor, using a pulsing action, until coarsely chopped. Bring 1
cup of water to a boil and add the raisins. When the water returns to
a boil, turn off the heat. Let the raisins plump in the water for 10
minutes. Drain the raisins, saving the water for another use. Store
the raisins in the refrigerator until needed. Use an electric mixer
to cream the sweetener and butter until well mixed. Stir in the
cinnamon and flour, and then the coarsely chopped toasted walnuts.
Make sure this mixture if refrigerated before using, otherwise it is
a bit messy to work with. Prepare the egg bread according to the
recipe directions. After the dough has risen a second time, roll it
into a rectangle that measures 18" x 20". Cover the rectangle evenly
with the chilled cinnamon roll filling, leaving a 1/2" to 3/4" space
at the op of the rectangle without filling. This will facilitate
rolling and sealing the roll. Sprinkle the plumped raisins evenly
over the filling. Beginning at the side closest to you, make a very
tight roll all along the length of the rectangle to make a well
formed spiral in the center of each roll. Continue to roll the dough
tightly, rolling it away from you. When you have finished folling,
move the roll closer to you and place the seam side down. Using a
serrated knife cut the roll into 9 equal portions. Life up each rol
and tuck the loose end under the bottom. Place the cinnamon rolls one
inch apart on a paper lined baking sheet. If the rolls are farther
apart from one another they will spread out too much and lose their
compact shape. Cover the rolls lightly with an oiled piece of plastic
and let them rise until almost doubled. Preheat the oven to 350
degrees. Bake the rolls on the middle shelf of the oven for 25-30
minutes until golden brown and slightly crusty. While the cinnamon
rolls are baking, prepare the cinnamon roll glaze. Use your food
processor or blender to combine the dry milk and apple juice until
lump free. Stir in the fruit sweetener and extracts. Generously brush
the cinnamon rolls with the cinnamon roll glaze while they are still
hot from the oven. Cinnamon rolls are at their absolute best within
the first couple of hours after baking.

If you would like to make smaller rolls, roll the dough 24" long and
12" wide. Fill as usual, and bake, reducing baking time to 20-25
minutes. Submitted By JANE KNOX   On   09-30-94

