Title: Imogene Wolcott's Candied Cranberries
Categories: Fruit, Can/preserv
Yield: 1 batch
1 1/2 c  Sugar plus
-- Additional for coating
1 1/4 c  ;Water
1 1/2 c  Large firm cranberries
-- picked over
-- stems removed
Rinse cranberries and drain them.  Prick each one completely through
with a coarse needle, then dry them thoroughly on a towel.

Combine the 1 1/2 cups sugar and water in a 10" or 12" saute pan or
skillet (the berries should cook in a single layer).  Bring the
mixture to boil over high heat, stirring until sugar has dissolved.
Boil syrup until it forms a soft ball when a small amount is dropped
into ice water (the reading is 234 F. on a candy/jelly thermometer).

Add cranberries to the syrup and boil them rapidly, shaking the pan
often, until syrup reaches the hard-boil stage (250 F.), 6 to 10
minutes. The berries will burst their skins during cooking, but this
does not affect the final result.

Immediately lift berries from the syrup with a wire skimmer or slotted
spoon and scatter them on a nonstick-surfaced or lightly oiled cookie
sheet.  The cranberries will be lying there in clumps; as soon as
they have cooled enough to be touched comfortably, separate them with
your fingers or two small forks.  Let them cool completely.

Place about 1/2 cup of additional granulated sugar in a bowl.  Pick
up each cranberry in turn, together with the hardened syrup pooled
around it, and reshape it quickly; drop the now globelike berry into
the bowl of sugar and roll it around to coat it well, then lift it
onto a clean baking sheet to dry for a few hours.  Leave the berries
until they are no longer sticky.

Store sugared cranberries at room temperature in a tightly closed
jar; they will keep almost indefinitely, if the household will let
them. If desired, sugar them again at serving time.

Yield: About 1 3/4 cups.

Witty writes: "Cranberries candied in this fashion will keep
perfectly in a glass jar, at room temperature, for many months [or up
to a year], not that there is likely to be a need for such longevity.
In color they are even brighter than cherries, so they make a pretty
holiday garnish for either sweet or savory things.  To serve them on
their own as a sweetmeat, drop them into tiny bonbon cups, three or
four to each. Finally, they are a desirable candied fruit to use in
baking in the same way as candied cherries.

"There are more complicated ways to candy these tiny native fruits,
but the method of Imogene Wolcott, which she says is a Cape Cod
recipe, is hard to beat.  Here it is, adapted from the 1971 edition
of her _Yankee Cook Book_."

From "Fancy Pantry" by Helen Witty.  New York: Workman Publishing
Company, Inc., 1986.  ISBN 0-89480-037-X.  Pp. 259-260.  Posted by
Date: 09-24-94
Cathy Harned. From: Cathy Harned

