Title: Jerry Springer's Crabmeat Cocktail Dip
Categories: Seafood, Appetizer
Yield: 3 cups
Fresh parlsey, washed and
-finely chopped
Rye toast or rye crackers
1 lb Fresh lump crabmeat
1/4 c  Caraway seeds
8 oz Whipped cream cheese
2 oz Vodka
If you are what you eat, then I'm a hamburger," professes syndicated
talk-show host Jerry Springer, who spent his Brooklyn boyhood in the
local soda shop feasting on french fries, burgers, and soda. I should
be dead by now. I'm lucky I have good genes, because I eat everything
wrong, and I don't exercise." But Springer, who favors quick-and-easy
recipes like the cocktail dip here, does exercise his right to dine
out with abandon. "When it comes to meals," he admits, "the best
things I make are reservations. Some people are still trying to
figure out how to program their VCRs. I'm still trying to figure out
how to program my microwave."

One thing Springer HAS figured out is his primary pick for Oscar
night. "I've seen virually all of the films that were nominated, but
'Schindler's List' is the one that will stand the test of time 100
years from now. It should win everything from Best Picture to
Director to Actor. It's more than a movie. It's an event. And it
should be in its own category because it's just not fair to compare
it with other movies."

Nor is it fair to compare the down-to-earth chatmeister with his
competition. Says the former two-term mayor of Cincinnati and
Emmy-winning newsman "I'm kind of like the sore thumb in the whole
talk-show arena. I didn't grow up saying, 'I want to be a talk-show
host.' I'm never going to be another Oprah. That's another level."
His background in politics, however, does give Springer an edge.
"It's funny. Nothing I did in television news has prepared me for a
talk show, and yet a lot of my political life is relevant. Doing a
talk show is working the crowd, speaking extemporaneously, and paying
attention to what's being said - which is exactly the mode I was in
as a mayor."

Mix crabmeat, caraway seeds, cream cheese, and vodka in medium bowl.
Cover and let chill for 1 hour. Transfer dip to serving dish; garnish
with parsley. Serve with rye toast points or rye crackers. Yields 2
Date: 09-26-94
1/2 cups. From: Michael Orchekowski

