Title: Jewish Cookery
Categories: Jewish, Information
Yield: 1 servings
No Ingredients Found
Like every other cookery tradition, Jewish cookery is marked
indelibly by the histor of the people who created it.  Unlike others,
however, the Jewish one is stamped by the influence of life lived not
in one, but in many coutries, and by the influence of a religion to
which its ahderents have tenaciously clung through eras of hardship
and persecution.  The recipes in this chapter reflect both these
influences.  Hence the fish fried in oil and eaten cold, that is
commonplace in Spain and Portugal, and the gefillte fish beloved by
Poles, have become traditional sabbath fare in Jewish homes.  In the
same way, the recipes for sweet and sour soups and stews have been
culled from Germany and Austria, the chopped herring from Lithuania
and the butter cake from Holland. Honey cake is eaten at New Year to
symbolize the hope of a sweet future. At Chanukah, when Jews
celebrate the courageous victories of their ancestors, the
Maccabeans, over the formidable Antiocus, who sought to attack their
religious freedom, grated potato latkes are prepared along with other
festive fare. A large number os special recipes have been developed
for the festival of Passover, when only unleavened flour may be
utilized in all cooking. This custom celebrates the escape of the
Israelites from Egyptian bondage, when they left in such a hurry that
they had no time to leaven their bread which they baken on their
backs as they went.

But it is not only during Passover that the Jewish housewife is
restricted in the food she may use.  Religious laws state that Jews
may only eat from animals that chew the cud and have cloven hoofs,
and from fish that has fins and scales.  Thus pigs, rabbits and
shell-fish are forbidden. Hindquarter meat, scavengers and birds of
prey are alos prohibited. Further, meat must be rendered fit and
proper for eating by the removal of all the blood.  This is achieved
by a special method of slaughtering in which the jugular vein is
severed.  The housewife removes all the remaining blood, by the
process of soaking in cold water and salting known as "koshering".
According to another dietary law, meat may not be cooked with milk
nor, generally speaking, eaten at the same meal. Because she is
limited by religion in the foods she may use for cooking, and becasue
in the past this limitation has been magnified by the sufferings of
the Jewish people in the lands where they sojourned, the Jewish
housewife has been forced tocook creatively to gain variety. The
result is a rich tradition from which a few samples are given in this
section. Origin: Mrs Beeton's Cookery Book Shared by: Sharon Stevens.

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   10-15-94

