Title: Le Coquelicot
Categories: Information, Masterchefs
Yield: 1 servings
No ingredients
Max Schacher named his restaurant Le Coquelicot because he
thought the word gentle and melodious.  In English, coquelicot is
"poppy." These delicate yellow flowers flourish on the long ridges of
Mt. Tamalpais, a graceful mountain overlooking the green plaza of
Ross where Max has built a restaurant as light and airy, as colorful
and peaceful, as the mountain itself.

Le Coquelicot is constructed within the walls of a rehabilitated
automotive garage.  At one end of the building is the kitchen,
compact, well-organized, and very clean.  At the opposite end are
glass doors leading to a small terrace set in the shadow of an
enormous palm tree. The main dining room is both relaxing and
functional. With its white tablecloths, simple sideboard, modern
paintings, and lovely flowers, it is a fitting stage for Max's
culinary art.

Born of Swiss-German parents in Lausanne, Switzerland, Max has
been working with food since he was fifteen.  An interest in cooking
came naturally to the child whose grandfather and sister owned
restaurants. Although only in his mid-thirties, Max has a
surprisingly diverse background.

After his apprenticeship in several Swiss hotels and
restaurants, he worked in Germany as a waiter, in France as a
bartender, in England as a sous-chef, and as chef de cuisine in
Tahiti, where he had sailed in his own ketch from San Francisco.  At
the conclusion of his three-year sojourn in the South Pacific, he
returned to California to become co-owner of Chez Michel before
opening his own place in 1982.

A sturdy, solid man who jokes easily in four languages, Max
enjoys his work and obviously enjoys being with the restaurant staff.
Affable and charming, he is an accomplished chef who also appreciates
the subtle demands of the dining room.  He knows that the kitchen
workers must be mechanically perfect and, equally important, the
dining room personnel must be efficient and personable.

He can discourse about food costs (his are extremely high
because of the rarity and excellence of his basic ingredients) or
about the proper lighting for the tables.  Max's wife Susan attends
to the public areas, where she supervises table service and acts as
hostess, freeing Max to concentrate upon the cooking.

The Schachers are particularly proud of their menu.  Composed
principally of recipes devised by Max, it is a result of his years of
work in European kitchens and his belief that his customers are
willing to sample anything at least once.  Traditional fare such as
steak tartare with fried potatoes and rack of lamb are balanced with
specials such as Max's Oysters Tahaa and Cervelle with Capers.

"When I first introduced rabbit a year ago, we had a hard time
selling it.  Now I go through many each week.  Most Americans are
always looking for more interesting cooking.  Their minds are always
open to different kinds of food."

Max believes that fashion too often dictates culinary trends.
Education is necessary to avoid the pitfalls of experimental cooking.
"A chef needs a good classic base to be strong; then he can be
innovative."

For instance, Max is aware that herbs are currently in vogue, and
naturally he has an extensive herb garden at home.  But he has
reached an intriguing conclusion about the use of herbs.  "Many times
you don't need to cook with the herbs because they are so strong they
will perfume the sauce perfectly if sprinkled on at the end."

Max's use of herbs reflects his quest for intelligent refinement
and his desire to create food that is a distinct, memorable pleasure
to see and to eat.

Menu:   Le Coquelicot

Mousse of Duck Liver
(Flavorful duck liver mousse with cognac and shallots molded in
a port-flavored aspic)

Oysters Souvenir De Tahaa
(Oysters lightly breaded with herbs and served in a shallot and
white wine sauce)

Saddle of Rabbit with Leeks and Rosemary
(Choice saddle of rabbit marinated in mirepoix, thinly sliced,
then served in a sauce of rabbit stock, strained tomatoes
and vegetables)

Walnut Pie a la Mode
(Le Coquelicot's vanilla ice cream over a freshly baked
walnut pie)

Source:  Great Chefs of San Francisco, Avon Books, 1984

Chef:   Max Schacher, Le Coquelicot, Ross, Marin County, CA
Date: 09-09-94
From: Rob Stewart

