Title: Minestrone Alla Milanese
Categories: Italian, Soup/stew, Vegetable
Yield: 6 servings
1/4 sm Cabbage
1/4    Head escarole
1/4    Head curly endive
1 c  Fresh spinach leaves
1/2 sm Onion
3    Peeled plum tomatoes
1 c  Green peas
1 c  Rice *OR*
1 c  Small macaroni
1/2 c  Canned garbanzos & their
-liquid
1/2 c  Canned kidney beans or
-shell beans & their liquid
6    Slices Italian bread
4 T  Grated Parmesan cheese
BATTUTO==
1    Celery stalk with leaves
1    Onion
1    Carrot
2    Slices lean salt pork
1    Sage leaf
3 T  Olive oil (to cover the
-bottom of the pot)
SOUP==
2 1/2 qt Hot water
3 t  Salt
2    Celery stalks
2    Carrots
3    Potatoes
1/4    Cauliflower
2 md Zucchini
Battuto:  Chop to a paste your seasonings, celery, onion, carrot and
sage along with the lean salt pork.  Chop all these coarsely, and
then keep chopping until everything is reduced to a paste.  Blenders
don't seem to do too well with this combination of pork and celery,
so they are not recommended.  When the battuto is ready, saute it in
the olive oil in a big soup pot.  Once the battuto is golden, the
minestrone is on its way. Soup: Add to the pot the hot water and the
salt, raise the heat to high. Chop the celery, carrots and 2 of the
potatoes into 1/4" bits, break the cauliflower into small pieces,
preserving as much as possible the individual flowerets. Put these 4
vegetables to boil in the flavored water for 10 minutes, while you
prepare the other vegetables: slice the third potato with a potato
peeler into paper-thin slices, and add them to the pot. Chop the
zucchini in half, then quarters, then slice into 1/2" bits. Cut the
cabbage into thin slices and then into 1/8" bits.  Break the
escarole, endive, and spinach into 1/2" pieces.  Slice the onion into
slivers. Add these, the tomatoes and the peas to the boiling pot,
lower the heat, and let bubble along for about 15 minutes.  If you
wish, add 1 cup of rice at this time, to make a northern variation,
or a cup of small macaroni to make a southern version.  At the end of
15 minutes, or when all the vegetables are done, add the garbanzos,
mashing some of them as you stir them in. Cook for another 15 to 25
minutes, depending on how thick you wish your soup. The real
minestrone has a nice, thick consistency, although some prefer it
thinner.  Serve hot in winter with a slice of toasted (even better,
fried) Italian bread in the bottom of the soup plate and a sprinkling
of Parmesan cheese on top. Serve at room temperature without the
bread in summer. From The Romagnolis' Table by Margaret & G. Franco
Romagnoli. Submitted By TERRI WOLTMON   On   09-29-94

