Title: Mole Poblano De Guajolote (Turkey in Chocolate & Chili Sa
Categories: So. america, Main dish, Turkey, Tex/mexican
Yield: 8 servings
1/2 c  Seedless raisins; lightly
;packed
2 tb Sesame seeds
1    Tortilla; broken in small
;pieces
1 ts Garlic; finely chopped
1/2 ts Ground cinnamon
1/2 ts Ground cloves
1/2 ts Coriander seeds; ground
1/2 ts Anise seeds
1 ts Salt
1/4 ts Black pepper; freshly ground
6 tb Lard
2 c  Chicken stock; cold, fresh
;or canned
1 1/2    Chocolate squares, unsweeten
2 tb Sesame seeds
1    Turkey (8 to 9 pounds);
;disjointed and cut into 8
;serving pieces
1 ts Salt
4    Dried pasilla chilies
4    Dried mulato chilies
6    Dried ancho chilies
;substitute for the above
;Chilies: 14 dried ancho
;Chilies
2 c  Chicken stock; boiling,
;fresh or canned
3/4 c  Blanched almonds
1 c  Onions; coarsely chopped
3 md Tomatoes; peeled, seeded and
;coarsely chopped, or
;substitute 1 cup drained,
;canned Italian plum tomato
Place the turkey in a 4 to 5 quart heavy flameproof casserole.  Add
the salt and enough cold water to cover the turkey completely.  Bring
to a boil over high heat.  Then reduce the heat to low, cover the
casserole and simmer for 1 hour; the turkey will be almost cooked
through. Set the casserole aside off the heat.
Meanwhile, prepare the mole (sauce) in the following fashion: Under
cold running water, pull the stems off the chilies, break or cut the
chilies in half, and brush out their seeds.  Cut away and discard any
thick ribs and tear the chilies into small pieces.  In a large bowl,
pour 2 cups of boiling chicken stock over the chilies and soak them
for about 30 minutes.
Blend the almonds in the jar of an electric blender until they are
completely pulverized.  Force the nuts through a sieve and return
them to the blender with the chilies, their soaking liquid, the
onions, tomatoes, raisins, 2 tablespoons of sesame seeds, tortilla,
garlic, cinnamon, cloves, coriander, anise seeds, salt and pepper,
and blend at high speed until the mixture is reduced to a smooth
puree.
(To make the sauce by hand, put the chilies, onions, tomatoes,
raisins, tortilla and garlic through a food mill set over a large
bowl and discard any pulp remaining in the mill.  With a pestle,
pound the almonds, sesame seeds and anise seeds in a mortar until
they are pulverized, force them through a sieve, then stir the
mixture into the chili puree. Stir in the chilies' soaking liquid and
add the cinnamon, cloves, coriander, salt and pepper.)
In a heavy 10 inch skillet, melt 2 tablespoons of the lard over
moderate heat.  Pour in the mole and simmer it, stirring constantly,
for about 5 minutes.  Add the cold stock and the chocolate.  Cook,
uncovered, over low heat, stirring frequently, until the chocolate
has melted. Cover the skillet and set it aside off the heat.
Remove the turkey from the casserole and lay the pieces on a double
thickness of paper towels to drain.  Then pat them thoroughly dry with
extra towels.  In a heavy 12 inch skillet, melt the remaining 4
tablespoons of lard over moderate heat until a light haze forms above
it. Add the pieces of turkey and brown them well on all sides,
turning them frequently in the hot lard.  Drain off the fat from the
skillet and then pour the mole sauce over the turkey, turning the
pieces about in the sauce to coat them evenly.  Cover the skillet and
simmer over low heat for about 30 minutes, basting the turkey now and
then with the sauce.
To serve, arrange the pieces of turkey on a heated platter and pour
the sauce over them.  Sprinkle the top with 2 tablespoons of sesame
seeds.

NOTE:  In Mexico, chicken and pork are often prepared and served
in the same sauce.

35 of 108

Time/Life 'Foods of the World', Recipes: Latin American Cooking

Earl Cravens earl.cravens@mgmtsys.com
Date: 09-16-94
From: Earl Cravens

