Title: Moroccan Style Quinoa
Categories: Moroccan, Main dish, Rice, Vegetarian
Yield: 4 servings
1    Bay leaf
1/4 ts Cumin
Pepper; to taste
2 tb Olive oil
2 c  Whole Brussels sprouts
2 c  ;Water
1/4 ts Sea salt
1 tb Olive oil
2 c  Quinoa
1 c  Chickpeas; soaked overnight
-- in 3 c. water
1    2"strip kombu sea weed
-- (opt'l.)
3 sm Onions; quartered
1 c  Carrots; cut in chunks
1 c  Turnips; cut in chunks
;Water or soup stock*
1 ts Sea salt
2    Garlic cloves
*Brochure says chicken or vegetable soup stock, but obviously vegans
won't want the chicken soup stock.

In a 3-qt. pot, bring chickpeas, kombu and soaking water to a boil.
Cover, reduce heat to medium and boil for 2 hours.  Add water as
necessary so that water just covers the chickpeas.

Remove 2 c. liquid from the pot and set aside in a 2-qt. pot.  Place
onions, carrots and turnips on top of the chickpeas and add enough
water or stock to just cover vegetables.  Add salt, garlic, bay,
cumin, pepper and olive oil.  Cover and bring to a boil.  Reduce to
light boil and cook for 40 minutes.  Add Brussels sprouts and cook an
additional 10 minutes. Adjust seasoning.

While vegetables and chickpeas continue to cook, add 2 c. water and
salt to the stock in the 2-qt. pot and bring to a boil.  Heat a thin
pan, add oil and, while stirring continuously, toast quinoa for 10
minutes. Add to boiling stock, cover and simmer 15 to 20 minutes.
Remove from heat. Allow to sit for 5 to 10 minutes.  Gently mix from
top to bottom with a damp wooden spoon.  Cover pot and allow to rest
for another 5 to 10 minutes.

Serve by placing a large mound of quinoa on each individual plate.
Flatten the mound in the center and fill with vegetables and
chickpeas. Pour 1/2 c. of hot stock over all and serve hot.

The brochure says: "Quinoa is a delicious substitute for couscous in
this traditional Moroccan dish.  Unlike couscous, quinoa is a whole
grain and therefore yields a more wholesome dish.  Ideally this dish
is prepared in a 3-level steamer, a couscouserie, but as this is not
a common kitchen utensil, [this] adaptation works nicely and allows
the flavors of all the ingredients to blend."

From Quinoa Corporation's "Ancient Harvest" brand "Vegetarian Entrees"
brochure, n.d., n.p.  Brochure prepared by Rebecca Theurer Wood.
Posted by Cathy Harned.
Submitted By CATHY HARNED   On   10-03-94

