Title: Moroccan Fish with Chermoula
Categories: Fish, Herbs/spice, Main dish, Moroccan
Yield: 6 servings
MMMMM---------------------MARINADE/CHERMOULA--------------------------
6    To 8 tb. vinegar
2    To 3 tb. peanut oil
1 tb Paprika
1 tb Ground cumin
1 pn Cayenne pepper
1 c  Fresh cilantro leaves
1 c  Fresh parsley
12    Garlic cloves
1 ts Salt
2    Lemons; juice of
-or-
MMMMM----------------------------FISH---------------------------------
Flour for dredging
Vegetable oil for frying
3 lb Fish fillets (hake, sea bass
-- snapper, shad, etc.)
Place the cilantro, parsley, garlic, salt, lemon juice or vinegar,
and oil in the bowl of a food processor or blender and puree.  Stir
in the paprika, cumin and cayenne.  Cut the fillets into 3" pieces
and arrange them in a single layer in a shallow pan.  Pour the
chermoula over the fish and marinate for several hours.

Drain the fish; dredge lightly in flour.  Heat vegetable oil to 375
F. in a deep-fryer or a deep skillet. Cook the fish pieces a few at a
time until they are golden, about 6 to 8 minutes.

Note: In Morocco, fish is often marinated in chermoula, a pungent
sauce whose main ingredient is cilantro, before cooking.  In some
areas, parsley is combined with the cilantro to temper its exotic
taste, as in this version.

The authors write: "Casablanca is a modern city built around and upon
tradition.  It boasts both extraordinary old homes, their cool dark
rooms lined with intricate tilework and beautifully carved wood, and
intriguing modern structures.  Nezha Ben Hallem and her husband, like
many of Casablanca's citizens, live in one of these modern houses,
but they still eat traditional Moroccan food.  Nezha has been buying
herbs and spices from the same merchant for many years.  'The space
in the marketplace is passed down from generation to generation,' she
explains.

"The herb and spice markets are busy spots.  Fresh cilantro and
parsley, mint, and scented geraniums are heaped in piles beside bins
of dried rosemary and thyme, verbena, and common and uncommon
seasonings like gum arabic and rosewater.  Other herbs are sold only
for medicinal purposes: dill to help jaundice or sticks of licorice
to ease sore throats. Occasionally a turtle is offered for sale.
'It's considered lucky to have a turtle in your garden,' notes Nezha.
'They eat the insects.'

"Nezha often buys bunches of fresh cilantro and parsley and heads of
garlic so that her housekeeper can make chermoula, a classic Moroccan
marinade. This pungent sauce imparts such extraordinary flavor to
fish that it is used in every preparation from the simplest fried
fillets to more complex dishes that combine the fish with potatoes
and tomatoes."

From Nezha Ben Hallem of Casablanca/Morocco in "Cooking with Herbs" by
Emelie Tolley and Chris Mead.  New York: Clarkson N. Potter, Inc.,
1989. Pg. 279.  Posted by Cathy Harned.
Submitted By CATHY HARNED   On   10-08-94

