Title: Moroccan Bread (Kisra or Khboz)
Categories: Bread, Moroccan
Yield: 1 batch
2 ts Salt
1/2 c  Lukewarm milk
1 ts Sesame seeds
1 tb Anise seed
Cornmeal
1 pk Active dry yeast
1 ts Granulated sugar
1/4 c  ;Water
3 1/2 c  Unbleached flour
1 c  Whole wheat flour
Soften the yeast in 1/4 c. sugared lukewarm water.  Let stand 2
minutes, then stir and set in a warm place until the yeast is bubbly
and doubles in volume.  Meanwhile, mix the flours with the salt in a
large mixing bowl.

Stir the bubbling yeast into the flour, then add the milk and enough
lukewarm water to form a stiff dough.  (Since flours differ in their
ability to absorb moisture, no precise amount can be given.)  Turn the
dough out onto a lightly floured board and knead hard with closed
fists, adding water if necessary.  To knead, push the dough outward.
(It will take anywhere from 10 to 15 minutes to knead this dough
thoroughly and achieve a smooth, elastic consistency.  If using an
electric beater with a dough hook, knead 7 to 8 minutes at slow
speed.) During the final part of the kneading, add the spices. After
the dough has been thoroughly kneaded, form into two balls and let
stand 5 minutes on the board.

Lightly grease a mixing bowl.  Transfer the first ball of dough to the
greased bowl and form into a cone shape by grasping the dough with
one hand and rotating it against the sides of the bowl, held by the
other hand. Turn out onto a baking sheet that has been sprinkled with
cornmeal. Flatten the cone with the palm of the hand to form a
flattened disc about 5 inches in diameter with a slightly raised
center. Repeat with the second ball of dough.  Cover loosely with a
damp towel and let rise about 2 hours in a warm place.  (To see if
the bread has fully risen, poke your finger gently into the dough -
the bread is ready for baking if the dough does not spring back.)

Preheat the oven to 400 F.

Using a fork, prick the bread around the sides three or four times and
place on the center shelf of the oven.  Bake 12 minutes, then lower
the heat to 300 F. and bake 30 to 40 minutes more.  When done, the
bread will sound hollow when tapped on the bottom.  Remove and let
cool. Cut in wedges just before serving.

Yield:  Two six-inch round loaves.

Variation (Khboz Mikla):  A flattened circle of the dough is cooked,
over an open fire, on a dry earthen griddle called a mikla until
browned on both sides.  To my mind this is absolutely delicious with
fresh butter and crystallized honey.

From "Couscous and Other Good Food from Morocco" by Paula Wolfert. New
York: Harper & Row, Publishers, Inc., 1987.  ISBN 0-06-091396-7. Pp.
51-52. Posted by Cathy Harned.
Date: 09-25-94
From: Cathy Harned

