Title: Poached Egg-Garlic Soup (Spain)
Categories: Soup/stew, Appetizer, European
Yield: 1 servings
-with
-garlic, be sure to to keep
-the heat medium-low to
-prevent the garlic
-from burning and turning
-bitter.
-Gloriously garlickly, this
-soup celebrates the
-Mediterranean region's
-popular little
-flavor-bursting bulb. As
-you toast the croutons
4 slices White Bread; firm 1 tb Butter or Margarine 1 tb Olive Oil 4
ea Garlic cloves 4 cups Root Vegetable Stock *(see below) or instant
vegetable stock 1 ea Bay leaf 1 ts Lemon juice 4 ea Eggs Finely
chopped parsley OR coarsely chopped fresh coriander (cilantro)

Trim the crusts from the bread and save for other uses; cut bread
into 1/2 inch cubes. Heat butter and oil in a wide, deep frying pan
over a medium-low heat. Add bread cubes and garlic and cook, stirring
often, until bread is crisp and lightly browned. Remove from pan and
keep warm.

Combine stock, bay leaf, and lemon juice in a pan. Bring to a simmer
over medium heat. Break one of the eggs into a saucer and carefully
slip it into hot broth; repeat with remaining eggs. Poach eggs until
whites are set but yolks are still liquid (about 4 minutes).

With a slotted spoon, carefully transfer each egg to a warm soup bowl.
Ladle broth over eggs and sprinkle each serving with croutons and
parsley.

Makes about 6 cups.

ROOT VEGETABLE STOCK

Butter or margarine 3 large Carrots; coarsely chopped 1 large
2 tb
Turnip; coarsely chopped 2 large Celery stalks; thinly sliced
(includes leaves if any) 2 large Onions; chopped 12 cups Water 2 tsp
Salt 6 large Parsley sprigs 1/2 ea Bay leaf 1 tsp Thyme leaves 2 ea
Garlic cloves; whole (optional) 1/4 tsp Black peppercorns (optional)

Melt butter in a 7 to 8 quart kettle over medium-high heat. Add
carrots, turnip, celery, and onions. Cook, stirring occasionally,
until vegetables are golden (about 15 minutes).

Stir in water, salt, parsley, bay leaf and thyme. If desired, add
garlic and peppercorns. Bring to a boil over high heat. Cover, reduce
heat, and simmer for 1 1/2 hours. Strain, and discard vegetables. To
freeze, let broth cool and pour into freezer containers.

Makes about 10 cups.

From: Sunset International Vegetarian Cook Book Posted by: Sam
Date: 09-21-94
Lefkowitz From: Sam Lefkowitz

