Title: Pollo En Adobo (Chicken in Red Chili and Tomato Sauce)
Categories: So. america, Main dish, Chicken, Tex/mexican
Yield: 4 servings
1 tb White vinegar
1 ts Sugar
1/2 ts Coriander seeds; ground
1/4 ts Ground cinnamon
1/4 ts Ground cloves
SAUCE:
6    Dried ancho chilies
1 c  Boiling chicken stock; fresh
;or canned
1 c  Onions; coarsely chopped
3 md Tomatoes; peeled, seeded and    1 1/2 ts Salt
1/4 ts Black pepper; freshly ground
4 tb Lard
1    Chicken (3 to 3 1/2 pounds);
;cut into 6 or 8 serving
;pieces
;coarsely chopped (see salsa
;cruda), or substitute 1 cup
;drained, canned Italian
;plum tomatoes
1 ts Garlic; finely chopped
Under cold running water, pull the stems off the chilies, break
them in half, and brush out the seeds.  With a small knife, cut away
any large ribs.  Tear the chilies into small pieces, pour 1 cup of
boiling stock over them and let them soak for 30 minutes.
Pour the chilies and the stock into the jar of a blender and puree
at high speed for about 15 seconds.  Add the onions, tomatoes, garlic,
vinegar, sugar, coriander, cinnamon, cloves, salt and black pepper,
and blend for 30 seconds, or until the mixture is reduced to a thick
puree.
(To make the sauce by hand, puree the chilies, onion, tomatoes and
garlic--a cup or so at a time--in a food mill set over a bowl.  Then
stir in the vinegar, sugar, coriander, cinnamon, cloves, salt and
black pepper.)
In a heavy 8 inch skillet, heat 1 tablespoon of the lard over
moderate heat.  Add the puree and cook, uncovered, stirring
occasionally, for 5 minutes.  Remove from the heat; cover the skillet
to keep the sauce warm.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees (F).  Pat the chicken pieces dry
with paper towels (they will not brown well if they are damp).  In a
heavy 10 to 12 inch skillet melt the remaining 3 tablespoons of lard
over moderate heat until a light haze forms above it.  Brown the
chicken a few pieces at a time, starting them skin side down and
turning them with tongs. As the pieces turn a rich golden brown,
place them in a 3 quart heatproof casserole.  Pour the chili sauce
into the casserole and turn the chicken about in it until the pieces
are thoroughly coated with the sauce. Cover the casserole tightly and
bake undisturbed, in the middle of the oven for 45 minutes.  Then
remove the cover and bake 15 minutes longer, basting the chicken
every not and then with its sauce. serve directly from the casserole
or arrange the chicken attractively on a serving platter and pour the
sauce over it.

30 of 108

Time/Life 'Foods of the World', Recipes: Latin American Cooking

Earl Cravens earl.cravens@mgmtsys.com
Date: 09-16-94
From: Earl Cravens

