Title: Pollo Rebozado (Cornmeal-Coated Chicken in Tomato Sauce)
Categories: So. america, Main dish, Chicken
Yield: 4 servings
;substitute 2 cups chopped,
;drained, canned Italian
;plum tomatoes
1/2 c  Dry white wine
1 ts Salt
Black pepper; freshly ground
BOUQUET:
3    Parsley sprigs
1    Bay leaf
1/2 ts Dried marjoram;
;All tied together in
;cheesecloth
2    Eggs
1/2 c  Milk
2 tb Yellow cornmeal
1 ts Salt
1/4 ts Black pepper; freshly ground
1    Chicken (3 to 3 1/2 pounds);
;cut into 6 to 8 serving
;pieces
1/2 c  Vegetable oil
1/2 c  Onions; coarsely chopped
6 md Tomatoes; peeled, seeded and
;coarsely chopped, or
In a large mixing bowl, beat the eggs with a whisk or rotary beater
for a minutes or two only, then beat in the milk, the cornmeal, 1
teaspoon of salt and 1/4 teaspoon of black pepper.  Pat the chicken
pieces completely dry with paper towels, then one at a time dip them
into the egg and corneal batter, and when they are lightly coated lay
them side by side on a long sheet of wax paper.  Heat 1/4 cup of the
oil at high heat in a 10 to 12 inch skillet.  Add the chicken and
regulate the heat so that the pieces brown quickly with out burning.
Turn the chicken frequently with tongs or a slotted spoon.  Transfer
the chicken to paper towels to drain.
In a heavy 4 quart flameproof casserole, heat the remaining 1/4 cup
of oil over moderate heat until a light haze forms above it.  Add the
onions and cook, stirring, for 4 or 5 minutes, or until they are soft
and transparent but not brown.  Stir in the tomatoes, wine, bouquet,
1 teaspoon of salt and a few grindings of pepper.  Cook, stirring
frequently, for 5 minutes.  Add the browned chicken to the casserole,
basting the pieces well with the tomato sauce.  Cover and simmer over
low heat for 30 to 40 minutes, or until the chicken is tender but not
falling apart. Taste for seasoning and serve directly from the
casserole.

33 of 108

Time/Life 'Foods of the World', Recipes: Latin American Cooking

Earl Cravens earl.cravens@mgmtsys.com
Date: 09-16-94
From: Earl Cravens

