Title: Polpette Alla Casalinga (Meatballs in Tomato Sauce)
Categories: Italian, Meatballs, Ground beef, Appetizer
Yield: 4 servings
MMMMM-------------------------MEATBALLS------------------------------
pn Nutmeg
2    Strips lemon rind (thin)
Salt
Black pepper, fresh ground
Parsley leaves
Oil for shallow frying
4 sl White bread, crustless
Milk for soaking
1 lb Ground chuck
2 cl Garlic
2    Eggs
1/4 c  Parmesan cheese
MMMMM------------------FRESH SALSA DI POMODORO-----------------------
1 ts Sugar
Salt
Pepper
1 1/2 lb Tomatoes, chopped
1 sm Onion, finely chopped
1 sm Carrot, finely chopped
1    Celery stalk, finely chopped
MMMMM------------------CANNED SALSA DI POMODORO-----------------------
2 tb Sugar
Salt
Pepper
2 tb Olive oil
1    Large garlic clove, halved
14 oz Can peeled tomatoes
1 tb Tomato paste
To prepare fresh tomato sauce:
Place the tomatoes in a saucepan with the onion, carrot, celery,
sugar, and salt and pepper to taste.  Simmer for 20 to 30 minutes
until the tomatoes have reduced almost to a puree.  Press through a
sieve or a strainer.  If a thicker sauce is desired, return to the
pan and boil briskly, uncovered, until reduced to the desired
consistency.  Check the seasoning and stir in freshly chopped basil
or parsley to serve. Makes about 2 cups sauce.
To prepare canned tomato sauce:
Heat the oil and garlic in a saucepan over low heat for 5 minutes or
until the oil is well flavored.  Discard the garlic.  Add the
tomatoes and their liquid, tomato paste, and salt and pepper to
taste.  Bring to boil; cover and simmer ver gently for at least 40
minutes, preferably longer.  Beat the sauce if necessary to break up
any large pieces of tomato.  Check the seasoning and use as required.
Makes about 1 1/4 cups sauce.
To prepare meatballs:
Prepare tomato sauce (either of the above versions).
Break the bread into a shallow bowl, barely cover with milk and leave
to stand for 10 minutes, or until softened; then squeeze to remove the
liquid.  Place the meat in a bowl and add the bread, garlic chopped
finely, lemon rind, eggs, cheese, nutmeg, and salt and pepper to
taste. Mix thoroughly.  With well floured hands, shape the mixture
into small balls, about 1-inch in diameter, then roll on a floured
surface and flatten slightly with a knife.  Handle as little as
possible so that the meatballs remain light.  Heat enough oil in a
large frying pan or skillet to give a depth of 1/4-inches.  Fry the
meatballs in batches, for about 3 minutes on each side or until crisp
outside and cooked through.  Lift out and drain in crumpled paper
towels.

While meatballs are frying, reheat the tomato sauce, diluting it with
water to give a fairly thin consistency.  Put in the meatballs, stir
gently and simmer for 15 to 20 minutes until hot through.

Serve over cooked spaghetti or other pasta, or separately as
appetizers.

