Title: Potato Farcidure
Categories: Main dish, Meat, Vegetable, French, Potato
Yield: 6 servings
MMMMM-------------------------DUMPLINGS------------------------------
150 g  Pork lardons * -=OR=-
150 g  Pure pork sausagemeat
Salt & pepper
12    Large cabbage leaves
3 kg Potatoes
2    Eggs
100 g  Sorrel
50 g  Flour
4    Cloves garlic
MMMMM----------------------SOUP AND GARNISH---------------------------
100 g  Onions
1    Bouquet garni
Pepper
1 3/16 kg Salt pork
600 g  Boiling sausage (andouille)
100 g  Carrots
Soak the salt pork in cold water a few hours before starting the
recipe. When desalted, put it into a large saucepan (dutch oven?)
with plenty of cold water and bring to the boil. Drain and reject
cooking water. Once again, add cold water, covering very generously
(2-3 inches above level of meat). Bring to the boil again, skim and
add the peeled whole carrots and onions and the bouquet garni
(parsley, bay & thyme as usual). Simmer for about 1 hour while
preparing the dumplings.

Meanwhile, peel the potatoes and grate them with a coarse cheese
grater. The idea is not to get slivers of potato, but more of a
coherent mass. Drain this lightly in a sieve and put into a mixing
bowl. Add eggs, sorrel, flour, salt and pepper. Mix all well together.

20 minutes before the end of the cooking time for the salt pork, add
the boiling sausage to the pork and vegetables. In Correze they use a
sausage called "Andouille", which, unlike the similarly named
andouillette does _not_ contain tripe etc. The Andouille is made from
minced salt pork. You could use any unsmoked boiling sausage, or at a
pinch, even a smoked one.

In another large pan, put plenty of water on to boil. When boiling
fast, blanch the cabbage leaves 5 minutes, then drain and refresh in
cold water until needed. When the salt pork and boiling sausage are
cooked, remove them from the cooking liquid and keep warm. Keep the
liquid boiling very gently.

Using your hands, shape some of the potato mixture into a ball. Take
one of the lardons - or some of the pure pork sausagemeat and put it
into the middle of the dumpling which you then close around it again.
Now wrap the dumpling in a cabbage leaf. Tie up. Continue with the
rest of the potato mixture, etc. You should allow 2 large dumplings
per person.

When all the dumplings are made, put them into the cooking liquor
that has been simmering gently. Bring back to a simmer and cook for
about 45 minutes.

When serving, unstring the farcidures, slice the pork and sausage and
arrange on a serving dish with plenty of the cooking liquor and a good
garlicky salad on the side.

slip into the middle of the dumpling
Submitted By IAN HOARE   On   10-07-94

