Title: Puree of Yellow Squash Soup
Categories: Soup/stew
Yield: 4 servings
2    Tbsp
Fresh basil -I am glad I
Did!)
1 t  Salt
1 T  Unbleached white flour ( I
Bet wheat flour would be
Even better)
1/2 c  Dry white wine
2 c  Milk ( I used 1% WestSoy,
Vanilla)
Freshly ground black pepper
1 lb Yellow crooked-neck squash (
Approx  6 small ones)
2 c  Chopped onion
1    Clove garlic, sliced
2 T  Butter ( I ommitted this
Altogether)
1/2 t  Dried thyme (or 2 tsp.
Minced fresh thyme)
1/2 t  Dried sage
1/2 t  Dried basil ( or 1 to 2 tbsp
Minced fresh basil) ( I used
optional topping:

2 tsp olive oil or butter ( I sauteed the bell pepper strips down the
McDougall way with water) 1 small red bell pepper, cut in thin strips
1 clove garlic, minced minced chives, (I use green onion tops)
Directions: in original form but with my comments.

1)  Cut the end off the squash, and peel if the skin looks looks
suspicious in any way. Then cut the squash into 1/4 inch slices and
set aside. (I used my cuisinart) 2) In a large saucepan or a Dutch
oven (I used a non-stick pan because I ommitted butter), begin
sauteing onions and garlic in *butter* over medium heat. After about
5 minutes, add squash, herbs, and salt. Stir, cover, and continue to
cook about 10 more minutes. 3) Gradually sprinkle in the flour,
stirring constantly. Continue to cook and stir over low heat about 5
minutes. 4) Pour in the white wine, stir briefly, cover, and let
simmer 10 to 15 minutes. (Note: The alcoholic content of the wine
dissipates with cooking, and the taste of the wine diminishes
gradually. So if you let if cook a little longer at this step, you
will get a more subtle result. Just be sure to stir everything up
from the bottom from time to time, so it won't stick or scorch.)
Remove from heat, and allow the soup to cool until it's cool enough
to puree. 5) Puree the soup with the milk in a food processor or
blender, and return it to a kettle. At this point, you may choose to
strain the soup through a fine strainer or a sieve to get a smoother
texture. (I don't think this is necessary at all) Adjust the
seasonings. Add black pepper to taste. 6) Heat gently just before
serving. 7)  While the soup is heating, prepare the optional
topping.Saute the bell pepper and garlic in olive oil or butter until
just tender. Spoon a little bit of this into each steaming bowl of
soup, and sprinkle with minced chives. (my water-sauteed bell pepper
strips worked just fine)

Prep time: 45 minutes, Yield: 4 to 6 Servings

This recipe is designed primarily for yellow crooked-neck squash ( a
summer squash), but in the winter you can substitute for acorn and
butternut.

To freeze yellow crooked-neck squash (so you can use it later in the
winter), cut the squash into 1/4-inch slices, and drop into a
saucepan of boiling water for 3 minutes. Drain and cool. Then wrap
airtight in a plastic bag or container and freeze.

To use acorn or butternut squash in this recipe, peel and seed a 1-lb.
squash. Chop it into small piecesk and steam or boil until tender.
Drain well. Then simply follow the recipe, biginning with step 2,
substituting this cooked winter squash for the yellow crooked neck.

From:    tdupart@cisco.com (Tina Dupart) Fatfree Digest [Volume 9
Issue 6] June 27, 1994 Formatted by Sue Smith, S.Smith34,
TXFT40A@Prodigy.com using MMCONV

