Title: Rabbit with Chives
Categories: Game, Herbs/spice, Italian, Main dish
Yield: 2 servings
1/2 c  Dry white wine
1/2 c  Sliced zucchini
2 lb Rabbit
1/2 c  Olive oil
1/2 c  Chopped fresh chives
Bone the rabbit and cut the meat in small pieces.  Place in a bowl
with the oil and 1/4 cup of the chives and refrigerate for at least 8
hours or overnight.

When ready to cook, place the meat and the oil in which it has
marinated in a large skillet.  Cook over medium heat, turning and
basting, for 30 minutes; do not brown.  Add the wine, cover, and cook
for 15 minutes longer.  Uncover, add the zucchini and 1 tb. chives,
and cook 3 to 4 minutes, until zucchini is tender and sauce is
slightly reduced. Serve very hot, garnished with remaining chives.

The authors write: "Dania Luccharini has a passion for food, a
passion she has been sharing for the past eight years with those who
dine at the delightful restaurant she and her husband, Umberto, run
in the Tuscan country.  A former lawyer, Dania originally moved to
the country with Umberto to restore an old family farm.  Once the
farmhouse was done, the couple found themselves with free time and
energy and a desire to start something new.  They bought a sprawling
old stone farmhouse on a hill overlooking a Tuscan valley and opened
La Chiusa.

"Dania has taken charge of the kitchen, and although she has no formal
training as a chef, she does have an innate sense of good food,
gleaned perhaps from time spent with friends like Roger Verge.  Under
her direction, La Chiusa's menu emphasizes local produce and
authentic fare that has been updated but still reflects the flavors
of Tuscany. 'The traditional way of cooking uses too much fat,' she
says. 'I've lightened it up.'

"The olive oil that dresses salads is made in the old olive press the
Luccharinis found in the basement, and overnight guests are offered La
Chiusa's own honey and marmalade for breakfast.  The herbs used in the
kitchen come from a hillside garden below the terrace, supplemented by
nepetela, the wild mint that grows throughout the region.  Its subtle
taste, a combination of mint and marjoram, is a traditional
complement to porcini and artichokes.  'I use sage and rosemary more
than any other herbs,' says Dania.  'I" can't cook without herbs, and
I mix them. I pick a few fresh ones every morning.  When you get them
at the market they are not really fresh and their aroma is not as
good.'"

From Dania Luccharini of La Chiusa restaurant/Tuscany, Italy in
"Cooking with Herbs" by Emelie Tolley and Chris Mead.  New York:
Clarkson N. Potter, Inc., 1989.  Pg. 249.  Posted by Cathy Harned.
Submitted By CATHY HARNED   On   10-08-94

