Title: Rabbit En Gelee
Categories: Appetizer, French, Game, Herbs/spice
Yield: 6 servings
1    Onion; halved
1    Head garlic; peeled
24 sm Onions
6    Whole French green beans
-- (up to 8)
1/4 c  White Madeira wine
1 pn Ground cinnamon
12    Pickled onions
2 tb Chopped fresh chives
1/4 c  Fresh chervil leaves
2 tb Chopped fresh fennel leaves
Salt; to taste
1    Young hare or
2    Fleshy rabbits
-- (about 4 lbs. total)
2    Envelopes unflavored gelatin
1/4 c  ;Water
6    Carrots; peeled
1    Bottle dry white wine
1 tb White wine vinegar
1/2    Lemon; zest of
Freshly ground black pepper
2    Bay leaves
3    Sprigs fresh thyme
6    Sprigs fresh Italian parsley
MMMMM-------------------------GARNISHES------------------------------
Black currants
Fresh Italian parsley
Poppyseed, kiwi or
Cut the legs from each rabbit, then split the body into 2 pieces.  In
a small bowl, soften the gelatin in the water.  Slice 2 of the
carrots. Place the rabbit, gelatin, wine, vinegar, lemon zest, a few
grinds of pepper, bay leaves, thyme, parsley, sliced carrots, onion
and garlic in a large pot. Bring to a boil over high heat, then
reduce the heat to medium-low and simmer until the meat falls from
the bones, about 1 1/2 to 2 hours.

While the rabbit is stewing, in separate saucepans cook the remaining
whole carrots and the small onions in boiling water until just
tender, about 15 minutes.  In another pot, cook the beans for 5
minutes. Drain the vegetables, rinse under cold running water, and
set aside.

When done, remove the rabbit and vegetables from the pot with a
slotted spoon.  Strain the cooking liquid into a bowl, stir in the
Madeira, and set aside.

Remove the rabbit meat from the bones and cut any large chunks into
bite-size pieces.  Sprinkle with a little cinnamon.  Slice the
crisp-tender carrots and small onions and reserve separately.  Let
all ingredients cool to room temperature.

Coat the inside of a shallow round 2-quart mold with a layer of the
cooking liquid and let it set.  Arrange crisp-tender carrot slices
over the bottom and around the sides of the mold.  Then layer the
rabbit pieces, remaining carrots, cooked onions, garlic cloves,
pickled onions, beans and herbs in the mold, arranging them so they
will appealing when it is cut. Season with salt and pepper, and pour
the remaining cooking liquid into the mold to cover the meat and
vegetables. Place in the refrigerator to set, 4 to 6 hours.

Carefully turn the mold out onto a platter and gently press Italian
parsley leaves into the aspic before serving.  You can decorate it
further with poppyseeds or the other garnishes.

Note: The liquid in which the rabbit cooks becomes a delicious aspic
in this terrine.

The authors write: "'I like meals to be a feast,' says Aude Clement,
owner of one of Paris's most intriguing houseware stores, Au Bain
Marie. Aude's love of good food goes back to her childhood, when
birthdays were occasions for a splendid meal at Fernand Point's
celebrated restaurant. 'My father always drank good wine,' she adds,
'and he always gave me a taste.'

"Aude has pursued her love of food in her work as well, developing
articles on cooking for leading French magazines, then styling them
for photography. While searching for interesting props, she became
intrigued with the beautiful but useful antiques related to preparing
and serving food. Eventually she amassed enough of them to open a
shop devoted to the table.

"As busy as she is, Aude still manages to find time to cook.  Every
Saturday morning she searches the weekly market in Lac d'Enghien, the
small spa town near Paris where she lives, for the best produce,
fish, and meats. 'I like everything that's good,' she says. Arriving
home, the morning's purchases are unpacked on the long counter to
inspire her. Any fish is washed, dried, then lightly salted. 'It's a
trick I learned from the Japanese,' says Aude.  'The fish keeps
better and the flesh is firmer.'"

"'I cook by smell,' she notes.  'When you can smell pasta, it's too
late. It will already be overcooked.'  The fragrance of herbs is
always an important consideration in her cooking.  Basil is a
favorite, 'but I never cook it,' she notes."

From Aude Clement of Lac d'Enghien, France in "Cooking with Herbs" by
Emelie Tolley and Chris Mead.  New York: Clarkson N. Potter, Inc.,
1989. Pg. 231.  Posted by Cathy Harned.
Submitted By CATHY HARNED   On   10-08-94

