Title: Rosemary-Scented Sweet Italian Flat Bread
Categories: Bread, Italian
Yield: 8 servings
1/2 c  Granulated sugar
3 tb Fresh rosemary leaves
3 tb Light Tuscan olive oil
1 tb Vegetable shortening
1/2 c  Warm water
1 tb Granulated sugar
1 1/2 tb Active dry yeast
3/4 c  Raisins (preferably golden)
1 lg Egg; beaten
In the workbowl of a food processor, combine the water with 1
tablespoon sugar.  Sprinkle the yeast over the mixture and let stand
for 10 minutes, or until the yeast foams.

Sprinkle 1 cup flour over the yeast mixture and process for 5 seconds.
Scrape down the sides and process for 20 seconds more, or until
smooth and thoroughly combined.  Leave the top of the processor on
and let the batter sit until doubled in volume, 30 minutes to 1-1/2
hours.

Meanwhile, soak the raisins in warm water to cover for 20 minutes,
drain, pat dry, and set aside.

When the dough has risen, add the egg, raisins, 1/2 cup sugar, 1
teaspoon rosemary, 1 tablespoon olive oil, the vegetable shortening,
and salt. Process for 20 seconds, or until the batter is smooth.  Add
the remaining flour to the batter and process for 20 seconds more, or
until a soft, sticky dough ball starts to form and pull away from the
sides of the bowl. Turn the dough onto a floured work surface and
knead it for 10 minutes, or until it is smooth and elastic.

Oil a jelly roll pan approximately 10 x 15 inches and set aside. Roll
out the dough with a heavy rolling pin until it is roughly the size
of the pan. Transfer the dough to the pan and with your fingers,
spread it until it fits the pan.  Sprinke the top of the schiacciata
(bread) evenly with the remaining and olive oil, cover with a dish
towel, and place it in a warm spot for 1-1/2 hours, until it has
risen.

Twenty minutes before you wish to bake the schiacciata, preheat the
oven to 375 F.  Bake the schiacciata in the center of the oven for 20
minutes, or until the crust is golden.  Serve warm or at room
temperature.

NOTE: Some cooks like to sprinkle the top of the schiacciata with a
tablespoon or two of sugar along with the rosemary and olive oil.  If
you like an even sweeter flat bread, by all means follow their lead.
This bread is also delicious made with chopped fresh basil (in double
the amount of rosemary).

Source: Desserts with a Difference - by Sally and Martin Stone Typos
by: Karen Mintzias
Submitted By KAREN MINTZIAS   On   09-26-94

