Title: Spiced Quince and Cranberry Compote
Categories: Condiment, Fruit, Holiday, Relish
Yield: 3 pints
18    Allspice berries
1    3" piece of stick cinnamon
2 pk Fresh cranberries
Balsamic vinegar
5    Or 6 medium-sized quinces
1 1/2 qt ;Water
2 1/2 c  Sugar
12    Cloves
Choose fragrant quinces, the deepest yellow color you can find. Cut
each one into quarters; then cut each quarter into slices about 1/2"
thick. Cut out the cores and slice off the peels. If you are
unfamiliar with quinces, you will find they have an off chalky
texture that is a little difficult to work with.  When all the fruits
have been cored and peeled, cut each piece into small chunky pieces
or slices about 1/3" thick.

Combine the water, sugar and spices in a saucepan.  Bring to a boil,
stir to dissolve the sugar, and add the quinces. Lower the heat,
cover the pan, and cook slowly until the quinces have turned a deep
pink color. You don't need to worry about overcooking the fruit, for
it will hold its texture well; it may take about 2 hours for the
color to really deepen.

Sort through the cranberries, remove those that are not in good
shape, and rinse the rest.  Add them to the pan. If the whole mixture
seems too dry, add a little more water or some cranberry juice. Raise
the heat a little and cook the cranberries until many of them have
begun to pop open, about 12 to 15 minutes.  Use a rubber scraper to
mix them gently with the quinces.  When done, set aside in the
refrigerator to cool, then stir in vinegar to taste, starting with a
couple of teaspoons. Keep refrigerated until needed and serve chilled
or at room temperature.

This is a nice sweet-tart relish that goes very well with winter
vegetables as well as turkey, chicken, and pork.

Note:  If desired, wrap the cloves and allspice berries in a piece of
cheesecloth, then remove them after the fruits are cooked if you
prefer not to have them mixed into the relish.

Variations:  Use pomegranate seeds as a fresh garnish, or the tart
juice of the pomegranate used in place of the vinegar. Fresh ginger
could also be included, finely chopped and added to the water with
the other spices.

From THE SAVORY WAY by Deborah Madison.  New York: Bantam Books, 1990.
From: howard_w@iat.holonet.net (Howard E. Wittenberg) in
rec.food.cooking. Formatted by Cathy Harned.
Submitted By CATHY HARNED   On   10-16-94

