Title: Squirrel Pot Pie
Categories: Game, Pie/tart, Vegetable, Main dish, Bbq/grill
Yield: 1 servings
1 t  Salt
1/2 t  Freshly ground black pepper
1 ea Onion
1 t  Cornstarch or 1 tsp flour
-and 1 tsp butter
6-8 biscuits or 1 1/2 c.
-coarse dry breadcrumbs
3 ea Squirrels; substitute
-rabbit or other small game
-or fowl
Marinade (recipe below)
2 sl Bacon or salt pork, about
-1/2" thick
2 T  Flour
MARINADE:)For very dry game meats such as mature deer or antelope; for
commercial meats such as lamb. Also for small game, upland birds.)
1/2 c. peanut oil 1 c. dry vermouth 1/2 c. brandy 1 lemon, or 3 Tbsp
fresh lemon juice 1 crushed and crumbled bay leaf 2 cups cool water
Blend the liquids for the marinade in blender thoroughly; if whole
lemon is used, roll it under your hand on a firm, flat surface, then
slice very thinly and add with bay leaf. Stir this marinade often as
it is being used as it tends to separate. Marinate thin cuts at least
2 hours, turning occasionally. Thick cuts such as roasts require at
least 6 hours or overnight. If marinating overnight, be sure there is
enough marinade to cover the roast completely. DIRECTIONS: Cut
squirrels into serving sized pieces and marinate 1 to 1 1/2 hours.
Drain and blot dry. Chop bacon or salt pork coarsely and saute it in
skillet until it begins to brown. Mix flour, salt and pepper and
dredge meat in mixture, coating each piece thoroughly. Brown meat in
skillet with the bacon. Pour hot water over the meat, covering it
completely. Cover and simmer over slow heat 45 min. or until tender.
Remove meat to a hot platter, draining pan juices back into skillet.
Bring liquid to a boil. Chop onions to a fine dice or grate it and
add to pan liquids. Cook 5 minutes until omnion is tender. Test and
adjust seasonings. Add cornstarch to cold water and stir into a thin
paste. Blend it into the liquid or blend flour and butter into smooth
paste and flake into pan, stirring to a smooth gravy. Return the
pieces of meat to the pan for a few minutes. Remove from heat, splt
the biscuits and top the dish with them. Alternatively, you may
sprinkle a thick coating of coars dry bread crumbs over the top.
Yield: 4-6 servings Source:_ Cooking Over Coals_, 1971. ISBN#
0-8289-0570-3 Shared by Allison Cozzi

Submitted By FRED TOWNER   On   10-13-94

