Title: Steamed Vegetables with Chive-Cardamom Butter
Categories: Side dish, European, Vegetable
Yield: 6 servings
-- middle
2 c  Frozen peas
12 sm Carrots; peeled
6 sm Scallions; with their tops
1    Head cauliflower
1 sm Rutabaga; peeled & diced
12    New potatoes; w/a strip of
-- skin removed around the
MMMMM-------------------CHIVE-CARDAMOM BUTTER------------------------
1/4 c  Chopped fresh chives
1/2 lb Clarified butter
1/4 ts Ground cardamom
Each of the vegetables should be steamed separately.  Remove the outer
leaves from the cauliflower and steam the whole head for 8 to 10
minutes, or until just crisp-tender.  The potatoes will need 15 to 18
minutes; the rutabaga 12 to 15 minutes; the peas 2 minutes; the
carrots 10 to 12 minutes; and the scallions 8 to 10 minutes.

While the vegetables are steaming, melt the butter and stir in the
cardamom and chives.

To serve, place the cauliflower in the middle of a round platter and
arrange the remaining vegetables around it.  Spoon the herb butter
over the vegetables just before serving.

Note: Cauliflower and root vegetables are popular with Scandinavians
because they can be easily stored for use during the cold northern
winters.

The authors write: "Twelve years ago Martha Geffen, who had found
herself becoming more and more interested in cooking, finally decided
to trade in her career in social work for a catering business.  When
the opportunity to work in one of the first wave of women-owned
restaurants came along, Martha leapt at the chance to enlarge her
knowledge of cooking, because the chef-owner was serving a menu
filled with culinary innovations.

"Now Martha and her partners, Samantha Peterson and Anne Buchanan,
run the restaurants at the Minneapolis Institute of Art and the
Walker Art Center. 'We try to serve very good food at reasonable
prices,' she says, 'so we even make all our breads and desserts.'  In
addition, the trio caters private and corporate parties and special
openings at the museums. 'People here want basic food with a creative
touch,' she notes. Herbs often provide that extra distinction.  'Ten
years ago, when pesto first struck my fancy I had to grow the basil
myself,' says Martha. These days fresh herbs are available at the
local farmer's market.

"Like many Minnesotans, Martha has a Swedish heritage, but she seldom
serves traditional Swedish dishes to clients.  'They tend to be very
basic,' she says, 'very brown and white looking.  Although we might
offer a casserole of Swedish brown beans among many other dishes in a
smorgasbord, we generally adapt the traditional recipes to make them
lighter, and to give them more color and flavor to appeal to American
tastes.'"

From Martha Geffen/Minneapolis, MN in "Cooking with Herbs" by Emelie
Tolley and Chris Mead.  New York: Clarkson N. Potter, Inc., 1989.
Pg. 119. Posted by Cathy Harned.
Submitted By CATHY HARNED   On   10-08-94

