Title: Stracotto Di Cremona
Categories: Italian, Beef
Yield: 8 servings
3 T  Olive oil, or enough to
-cover the bottom of the
-pot
Flour
1 t  Salt
1/2 t  Ground pepper
2 T  Tomato paste diluted in...
1 c  Water
3 lb Boneless chuck or bottom
-round
4    Slices lean salt pork
6    Whole cloves
1 md Onion
1 md Carrot
1    Celery stalk
1 qt Dry red wine
1    2 1/2" stick of cinnamon
If your meat is very streaked with fat, use only 2 slices of salt
pork. If it fairly lean, use 4 slices.  Cut the salt pork slices
crosswise into little strips.  Make a whole series of slits in the
roast on all sides, and stuff them with the strips of pork.  Stick in
the cloves at random. Then tie the piece of meat with butcher string
as you would a sausage or a neat parcel.  Put the roast in a bowl
just wide enough to fit it snugly and deep enough to hold the
marinade. Mince the onion, carrot and celery as finely as possibly,
and sprinkle over the meat. Add the wine and the cinnamon, and
marinate at least 8 hours. Remove the meat from the marinade and
drain it well.  Put the olive oil in a stewpot that has a good cover.
Flour the meat, patting it well to get it evenly covered. Add the
meat to the oil, and brown slowly over medium heat. Once browned,
salt and pepper the meat. Scoop the minced vegetables out of the
marinade and add them to the pot. When these are browned, add the
marinade. Add the tomato paste diluted in warm water and, if
necessary, enough more warm water to cover. Bring the pot to a boil,
reduce the heat to a very low simmer, and cover. Put a piece of heavy
brown paper between the pot and its cover to seal it well. Cook very,
very slowly for at least 4 hours. Uncover the pot, stir the sauce
gently, and continue cooking uncovered until the sauce has reduced
and thickened.  The sauce should be smooth, like a fine gravy. The
meat should be tender enough to cut with a spoon. Use half the sauce
with pasta as a first course, and the rest with the meat for a second
course. Serve with whipped potatoes or slices of hot Italian bread in
order to take full advantage of the sauce.  From The Romagnolis'
Table by Margaret & G. Franco Romagnoli.
Submitted By TERRI WOLTMON   On   10-01-94

