Title: Stuffed Grape Leaves (Dolmas)
Categories: Vegetable, Greek, Appetizer, Lamb, Main dish
Yield: 1 servings
2 t  Dried Oregano, Crumbled
1 t  Ground Nutmeg
Salt And Freshly Ground
-Black Pepper, To Taste
4 oz Chevre, Crumbled
1/4 c  Cooked Rice
1/2 c  Chopped Fresh Italian
-Parsley
1/2 c  Chopped Walnuts
16 oz Preserved Grape Leaves, 1
-Jar
1/4 c  Fresh Lemon Juice
1/2 c  Water
Lemon Slices For Garnish
This is a new version of
-the Greek Classic.  We
-have cinnamon,
Nutmeg, and oregano, but
-we've combined these
-spices with ground
Lamb, chevre and chopped
-walnuts for extra texture.
- Squeeze lots of
Lemon juice on top.
8 T  Olive Oil
1 sm Onion, Finely Chopped
2 ea Cloves Garlic, Minced
8 oz Ground Lamb
1 T  Ground Cinnamon
Heat 2 Tbls of the oil in a medium skillet over medium heat.  Add the
onion and garlic and saute for 5 minutes. Add the lamb and crumble
with a fork. Cook until the lamb is no longer pink, about 15 minutes.
Season with cinnamon, oregano, nutmeg and salt and pepper to taste.
Stir in the chevre and cook until the cheese melts.  Remove from the
heat and stir in the rice, parsley and walnuts. Rinse the grape
leaves under cold running water and pat dry.  Place one leaf, vein
side up, on a clean flat surface. Shape about 1 Tsp of the filling,
with your hands, into a compact log, about 1-inch long, and center
over the stem end of the leaf. Roll up the leaf to enclose the
filling, folding the sides into the center.  Repeat with the
remaining grape leaves and filling. Line th bottom of a medium
saucepan with any torn grape leaves to prevent burning and sticking
during the cooking.  Pack the stuffed grape leaves in the pan in
concentric circles, making as many layers as necessary. Pour the
remaining 6 Tbls of oil, the lemon juice, and water over the grape
leaves. Place a small heat-proof plate on top of the stuffed leaves
and place a large can, such as tomatoes, on top of the plate to weigh
down the grape leaves and to keep them from unrolling.  Simmer over
low heat for about 1 hour. Serve war, garnished with lemon slices, or
with a fresh mint flavored Hollandaise Sauce. Makes About 48 Stuffed
Grape Leaves. From The Silver Palate Good Times Cookbook Julee Rosso
& Sheila Lukins Copyright 1985

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   10-11-94

