Title: Tilapia Information
Categories: Fish, Information
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM----------------SOURCE: THE NATIONAL CULINAR---------------------
Written by Suzanne B. Hall
More and more chefs and their customers caught in the culinary
Catch-22 of healthful eating versus food safety are turning to
aquaculture. Farm-raised fish provides the lean and healthful entree
customers demand without the fear of toxins, pollutants and other
contaminants. Catfish is the best known and most popular farm-raised
fish, If you're looking for a little variety in your aquaculture
offerings, though, consider adding tilapia (pronounced ta-LAH-pee-a)
to your menu. Keith Keogh, CEC, AAC, executive chef of Walt Disney
World's EPCOT Center, did so more than a decade ago. His customers
not only enjoy tilapia in EPCOT's Garden Grill, they also can see it
in its created habitat while touring an exhibit in The Land Pavilion
sponsored by The Nestle Company. Although relatively unfamiliar to
many Americans, tilapia has a long and distinguished history. Native
to Africa, it has been cultured widely there and in the Middle East
since before King Tut's time. Hieroglyphics show tilapia being pond
raised, making it the world's original aquaculture fish. And,
Biblical scholars believe tilapia was the fish Jesus served to the
multitudes and the species gathered by the Apostle Peter.  Hence, it
is also known as St Peter's fish. Farm-raised tilapia are fed high
protein, grain-based feeds formulated to produce a sweet, lean,
white, flaky meat that has as mild a flavor as flounder, sole or
orange roughy.  Because it has little inherent flavor, it can be
served with highly spiced sauces and herbs. Ideal for steaming,
frying, broiling, sauteing and adding to soups and stews, its flesh
is still firm enough to be grilled. "It's really a beautiful
white-fleshed fish," says Keogh. "Its only drawback is its name.
Unfortunately, our other farm-raised fish outsell it 3-to-1, because
people just aren't familiar with tilapia. But when they try it, they
always like it." Keogh usually offers tilapia as a chef's special,
serving it with either a cucumber dill or champagne sauce. Colapia
USA, which markets 4- and 6-ounce skinless, boneless tilapia fillets
raised in the Andes , mountains of Colombia, South America, provided
these other preparation suggestions. (To follow).

Submitted By SHERREE JOHANSSON   On   10-14-94

