Title: Toasted Almond Cake
Categories: Dessert, Cake/cookie, Nuts/grains
Yield: 24 servings
3 c  Less 1 T unsifted cake flour    2 3/4 c  Sugar
5    Extra-large eggs
2 ts Vanilla extract
1 ts Almond extract
1 c  Milk
1 c  Chopped almonds, lightly
-toasted
2 tb Almond flour
1/2 ts Baking powder
1/2 ts Salt
1 ts Freshly grated nutmeg
12 tb Unsalted butter, softened
4 tb Solid shortening
MMMMM------------------TO FINISH THE CAKE (OPT-----------------------
2 tb Confectioners' sugar
Preheat oven to 350xF. Lightly butter and flour a swirled 10" (12-cup)
bundt pan. Sift together two times the cake flour, almond flour,
baking powder, salt and nutmeg.

Cream the butter and shortening in the large bowl of an electric
mixer on moderate speed for 4 minutes. Increase the speed to
moderately high, add one-third of the sugar, and cream for 3 minutes.
Add half of the remaining sugar, cream for 3 minutes; add the
remaining sugar, beat for 2 minutes longer. Add the eggs, one at a
time, beating well after each addition. Scrape down the sides of the
mixing bowl frequently to keep the batter even-textured. Beat in the
vanilla and almond extracts.

On low speed, alternately add the sifted mixture in 3 additions with
the milk in 2 additions, beginning and ending with the sifted
mixture. Stir in the chopped almonds. Pour and scrape the batter into
the pan. Bake the cake for about 1 hour and 10 minutes, until a
wooden pick inserted in the cake withdraws clean and dry. The top of
the fully baked cake will be golden brown.

Let the cake stand in the pan on a rack for 4-5 minutes. Invert the
cake onto another cooling rack, then invert again to cool
right-side-up. Cool completely. Sift the cake with confectioners'
sugar, if you wish.

NOTE: Almond flour, simply very finely ground almonds, replaces a
little of the cake flour in this recipe and builds on the almond
flavor.

Per serving: 326 calories, 5 g protein, 44 g carbohydrates, 15 g fat,
6 g saturated fat, 74 mg cholesterol, 84 mg sodium.

Source: Lisa Yockelson, "Nuts to Crack," The Washington Post FOOD
Section, 9/14/94. Typed by Linda Howard.
Date: 09-16-94
From: Linda Howard

