Title: Turbot Information
Categories: Fish, Seafood, Information
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM----------------SOURCE: THE NATIONAL CULINAR---------------------
-Assistant Editor.
Written by Steve Beal,
Chef's have been singing the praises of the turbot for centuries.  A
turbot is a large, round flatfish with both of its eyes on the
topside of its body, a rough, knobby skin on the upper surface with
chameleon-like abilities and a soft cream-colored underbelly. Turbot,
from the Scandinavian word for "thorn" (due its sharp, wart-like top
skin), range from the Mediterranean to Bergen, Norway Market turbot
weigh between 4.5 to 9 pounds, though they can reach a maximum size
of about 30 pounds. Small turbot (2-3 pounds), though just as good as
the regular-sized turbot, are called chicken turbot. Fillet yield
from a fish is often rather small, with up to 50 percent being
wasted, though large fish have less waste than small ones. A great
debate rages in culinary circles over whether turbot is as good as,
inferior to, or even superior to sole.  Regardless of how you feel
about the issue, turbot deserves high esteem for its influence on the
cuisines and culinarians of the Atlantic coastline. Many famous chefs
have invented turbot presentations for their often equally famous
patrons: Laguipiere created turbot a l'imperiale (sliced, poached in
milk, served with a truffle sauce and garnished with crayfish tails)
for Napoleon; La Planche deep-fried a whole turbot for
Brillat-Savarin; Prosper Montagne prepared turbot a la pelerine
(sprinkled with melted butter, baked on a bed of sauteed onions,
coated with the cooking juices mixed with white wine, cream and
butter, glazed in the oven, and garnished with fried scallops);
Fernand Point braised turbot in vermouth; Roger Verge created blanc
de turbotin with sorrel fondue; Andre Guillot served blanquette of
turbot; Alain Senderens served chicken turbot with grapes and tea;
and Michel Guerard created chicken turbot studded with anchovies and
steamed with saffron. All of these chefs had to contend with
availability and the seasonal flux of turbot, but today's culinarians
just have to pick up a phone and they will get the fish within 48
hours. In the last three years, a company in Chile has been offering
the only commercial- sized farm-raised North Atlantic turbot in the
world.  The company, Granjamar, incubates the eggs in a hatchery and
then transfers the hatchlings to land-based grow tanks.  The grow
tanks have cold, oxygen-rich fresh sea water constantly pumped in 24
hours a day and utilize special coverings to prevent exposure to
direct sunlight Granjamar farm-raises Psetta maxima, also known as
Scopthalmus maximus. The turbot are fed a mixture of fresh fish and
fish meal five times a day. The hatchlings grow fast under these ideal
conditions and reach a harvesting weight of 4 to 4.5 pounds in 21 to
24 months.  The carefully controlled conditions under which the fish
are raised, processed and shipped ensures that a quality product
reaches the chef.  "The flavor, texture and quality are much the same
as turbot from Europe," says Hartmut Handke, CMC, AAC, chef/ owner of
the 160-seat Handke's Cuisine in Columbus, Ohio, "but the fish seem
to be much fresher, and the extremely cold water that they are grown
in improves the texture." Handke says he sells about 30 turbot covers
a night when he features the fish as a weekend special.  "Customers
say that it doesn't even taste like fish because the flavor is so
clean and fresh." At this time only whole fish can be obtained, which
is unfortunate, says Handke, because the fish are difficult to
fillet. "You have to be a good culinarian to fillet a turbot
properly," Handke says. "The bone structure is very solid and the
skin is very tough, but they plan to begin shipping the fish in
fillets soon." The Solomon Company is the exclusive U. S. importer of
Granjamar's farm-raised turbot.  The fish can be obtained by calling
David Solomon at (203) 431-9432 or the following distributors: Steve
Connolly Seafood (nationwide deliveries),at (617) 427-7700, North
Landing Corporation (Manhattan and New Jersey) at (201) 344- 5896 and
Inland Seafood Corporation (Southeast) at (404) 350-5850.

Submitted By SHERREE JOHANSSON   On   10-14-94

