Title: Two Kinds of Mushrooms, Pickled
Categories: Appetizer, Condiment, Can/preserv
Yield: 1 batch
1 1/2 c  Distilled white vinegar
3 lg Garlic cloves
-- peeled and halved
24    Black or white peppercorns
6 md Bay leaves
9    Whole cloves
3 lg Blades of mace
2 lb Small, firm white button
-- mushrooms
1 oz Dried porcini, cepes or
-- other dried boletus
-- (about 2/3 cup)
4 c  ;Water
3 ts Salt
1 1/2 c  Red wine vinegar
Wipe button mushrooms clean with a damp cloth and trim the bases of
the stems; try to avoid washing them.  If washing is necessary, do it
quickly and roll the mushrooms in a towel to blot them.  If the
mushrooms aren't uniform in size, cut any overlarge specimens in
halves or quarters.

Combine the mushrooms, dried boletes, water and 1 1/2 tsp. of the
salt in a large saucepan.  Bring the liquid slowly to a boil and
simmer the mushrooms, uncovered, until buttons are tender, 10 to 15
minutes. Pour the whole business into a bowl, let the mushrooms cool,
then cover them and refrigerate overnight.

Drain the mushrooms in a colander set over a bowl (be sure to save the
delicious liquid).  Either remove the pieces of boletus and add them
to the reserved liquid (puree this for a superb soup), or leave them
mixed with the buttons; although not comely, the pieces are delicious.

Combine the remaining salt with the two vinegars, garlic,
peppercorns, bay leaves, cloves and mace in a saucepan; bring the
mixture to a boil. Cover the pan and simmer for 5 minutes.

Meanwhile, divide the drained mushrooms among heatproof storage jars
that have snug lids.  Divide the seasonings from the boiling-hot
pickling liquid equally among the jars, then pour the spiced vinegar
over the mushrooms. The liquid should cover them well; if not, add a
little more vinegar (either kind) or water as required.  Let the
mushrooms cool, cover the jars, and refrigerate them to mellow for at
least 3 days before serving. At serving time, you may want to drain
the mushrooms and toss them with a little good olive oil.  Keeps for
up to six months in the refrigerator.

Yield: About 3 pints.

Witty writes: "Little button mushrooms make a pretty pickle, but their
flavor is not in the same league with that of boletus mushrooms, dried
specimens of which are used here to lend their fine, dark taste and
deep, earthy color to a delicious preparation that's fit to grace any
antipasto.

"For the flavoring element, look for dried mushrooms labeled cepes,
porcini, boletus, boletes, and so on; sometimes they are to be found
in bags marked 'dried European mushrooms,' and those imported from
Chile can be quite good, too.

"There is a bonus from this pickling job: the flavorful cooking
liquid (and the pieces of dried mushroom, too, if you don't choose to
pickle them) makes a fine base for a soup or a sauce."

From "Fancy Pantry" by Helen Witty.  New York: Workman Publishing
Company, Inc., 1986.  ISBN 0-89480-037-X.  Pp. 34-35.  Posted by
Date: 09-25-94
Cathy Harned. From: Cathy Harned

