Title: CSIRKE PAPRIKAS (CHICKEN IN PAPRIKA SAUCE)
Categories: Poultry
Yield: 1 Servings
1 ea Frying chicken, cut into
-pieces (or you can use all
-thighs, quarter
Breasts,
Etc.)
8 sl Bacon
1/4 c  Finely chopped onion
3/4 c  + 2 Tb flour
1 1/2 ts Salt
1 1/2 ts + 11/2 Tb paprika
1 ea Uecikn bouillon
2/3 c  Milk
1 1/2 c  Thick sour cream
Clean, rinse and pat dry the chicken, and cut into pieces. Dice bacon
and place into Dutch oven.  Cook slowly, stirring and turning
frequently, until bacon is slightly crisped. Add the chopped onion
and cook until transparant stirig ocsoally. Meanwhile, coat chicken
evenly by shaking 2 or 3 pieces at a time in a plastic bag containing
3/4 cup flour, 1 1/2 tsp salt, and 1 1/2 tsp paprika. With slotted
spoon, remove bacon and onion from pan, leaving bacon fat in pan and
set aside. Save 2 Tb bacon fat and set aside. Slightly increase the
heat under the pan. Lightly and evenly brown the chicken, starting
with meatier pieces, and browning skin sides first. When chicken is
browned, reduce heat. Cover pan tightly and cook chicken slowly for
about 25 to 40 minutes until thick pieces are tender when pierced
with a fork. Meanwhile, dissolve chicken bouillon in 1 cup hot water
and set aside. Melt saved bacon fat again in a small saucepan over
low heat. Blen into the fat 2 Tb flour. Heat until the mixture
bubbles, stirring constantly. Remove from heat and gradually add
chicken broth, stirring all the while. Return o heat and bring to
rapid boil. Keep stirring! Cook 1 to 2 minutes longer.  Gradually add
(still stirring of course) milk and 1 1/2 Tb paprika. When thoroughly
heated, remove saucepan from heat. Stirring vigorously with a whisk
or fork, add the sour cream to the sauce in small amounts.  Mix in
the bacon and onion. Pour the sauce into the skillet over each piece
of chicken. Cook over low heat, stirring sauce and turning chicken
frequently for 3 to 5 minutes or until thoroughly heated; do not
boil.  Cover pan tightly; turn off heat under chicken and let s
Csirke Paprikas (Chicken in Paprika Sauce)

