Title: CURRANT-WALNUT BAGUETTES
Categories: Breads
Yield: 2 Servings
Karen Mintzias
1 pk Yeast
1 1/2 tb Honey
1 1/4 c  Warm water
1 1/2 c  Bread flour
1 1/2 c  Whole wheat flour
1 ts Salt
3/4 c  Walnut halves
3/4 c  Currants
1/4 c  Golden raisins
Butter; for coating bowl
1    Egg; beaten, for glaze
This earty brown bread, shaped into long thin baguettes and densely
packed with raisins and walnuts, is virtually impossible to stop
eating. Renee first tasted a similar bread at the two-starred Michel
Rostang in Paris. She likes to serve it with hearty soups, such as
cream of pumpkin or squash, with curried chicken salad or cream
cheese spreads, and, of course, with fruit and cheese.  Bread as good
as this is worth the work.

Directions: =========== Dissolve the yeast and honey in 1/4 cup warm
water and let stand until foamy, about
10    minutes.

In a food processor fitted with a plastic dough blade, combine the
flours and salt.  Process about 30 seconds. Add the walnuts and
process an additional 15 seconds. With the machine running, pour the
yeast mixture through the feed tube.

With the machine running, slowly add 1 cup water through feed tube.
Process until the dough clears the sides of the bowl and is no longer
dry, about 1 minute additional.

Turn out onto a lightly floured board and knead in the currants and
raisins for about 5 minutes.

Coat a large bowl with butter.  Transfer the dough to the bowl,
turning to coat the top with butter.  Cover with plastic wrap and a
towel and set aside to rise in a warm place, until the dough is
doubled in bulk, about 1 to 1-1/2 hours.

Turn the dough out onto a lightly floured board. Punch down to remove
air bubbles and divide the dough into two equal parts. Roll each part
into a 6 x 15-inch sheet. Roll the sheets into long cylinders,
pinching the edges to seal.  Transfer the cylinders, seam side down,
to a buttered baking sheet or two baguette pans. Cover with plastic
wrap and a towel and set aside to rise until the dough is almost
doubled, about 45 minutes.

Preheat oven to 425.

Brush the loaves with the beaten egg and slash each with a sharp knife
several times along the diagonal. Bake for 30 to 40 minutes, until
loaves are well browned.

Yields 2 loaves

Source: Renee Carisio of Ma Cuisine
The Ma Cuisine Cooking School Cookbook
by Linda Lloyd, Toni Mindling Schulman, Patrick Terrail and
Helene Siegel
:
:
:

Typed for you by Karen Mintzias

