Title: CURRIED SHELLFISH POT PIE
Categories: Seafood, Main dish
Yield: 8 Servings
6 tb Unsalted butter
1/2 c  Unbleached all-purpose flour
1 c  Clam broth
3/4 c  Dry sherry
1 c  Light cream or milk
1 tb Lemon juice
3 tb Freshly grated ginger
3 lg Garlic cloves
- peeled and crushed
2 tb Curry powder (hot or mild)
1/8 ts Ground red pepper
Salt
Freshly ground black pepper
1/2 c  Chopped flat-leaf parsley
1/2    Meat from a 1 1/4 lb lobster
- steamed or boiled
- 5 minutes to loosen,
- then removed and chopped
1 1/2 lb Large shrimp
- peeled and deveined
3/4 lb Young carrots; scraped,
- trimmed, cut into
- 2-in lengths, blanched
- for 2 minutes
4 oz Shiitake mushrooms
- stems removed
- and cut into thick slices
1 c  Slivered almonds; toasted
10 oz Frozen "petite" peas
- defrosted
16 oz Frozen pearl onions
- defrosted
1 lb All-butter puff pastry
- defrosted in the
- refrigerator if frozen
1    Egg; mixed with
1 tb -Water, for egg wash
PREHEAT OVEN TO 425F. Invert a 3-quart oval or rectangular casserole,
preferably earthenware or porcelain, onto a piece of parchment or
waxed paper. Trace the shape, adding a 1-inch border all around, then
cut it out. In a large heavy skillet, heat the butter over medium
high heat until it foams. Whisk in the flour, adjust the heat to
medium low, and continue cooking until the flour is light-cream
colored, about 2 minutes. Stir in the clam broth, sherry, cream and
lemon juice. Adjust the heat to medium high, and slowly bring the
mixture to a boil, stirring constantly. Cook 30 seconds longer. It
will be quite thick. Remove the pan from the heat. Stir in the
ginger, garlic, curry powder, red pepper, salt and black pepper. Let
the mixture cook slightly, then fold in the parsley, lobster, shrimp,
carrots, mushrooms, almonds, peas and onions. Scrape the filling into
the casserole. On a slightly floured work space, roll the puff pastry
to a thickness of 1/4 inch. Cut it out, using the paper template. In
the center of the pastry, cut out an air hole about 1/2 inch in
diameter. Place the pastry over the casserole, pressing it down on
the sides to seal. Cut the remaining pastry into strips or shapes and
decorate the top of the pot pie. (This dish may be prepared ahead to
this point, covered and refrigerated up to 1 day.) Brush the top with
the egg wash. To help prevent the liquid from boiling over onto the
crust, make a steam vent by rolling a 3-inch strip of heavy aluminum
foil width-wise around a wooden spoon handle. Insert it gently into
the hole. Remove spoon, leaving foil in place. Place the casserole on
a cookie sheet and transfer it to the middle of the oven. Bake for 20
minutes, then reduce heat to 375F and continue baking for 20-to-25
minutes longer, or until the pastry is puffed and rich golden brown.
Remove the pan, let it rest with the vent inside for 15-to-20 minutes
to keep the crust from becoming soggy.

