Title: CUSCUS DOLCE (DESSERT COUSCOUS)
Categories: Desserts, Italian
Yield: 8 Servings
MMMMM-----------------------CUSTARD CREAM----------------------------
60    Pistachio nuts
Coarse-grained salt
5    Extra-large eggs
8 tb Sugar
1 c  Heavy cream; cold
1/2 c  Milk; lukewarm
2 tb Rosewater
MMMMM--------------------------COUSCOUS-------------------------------
1 lb Couscous (not instant)
1 c  Water; cold
1/2 ts Salt
MMMMM----------------------FOR THE STEAMER---------------------------
3 1/2 c  Flour
1 c  Water; cold
MMMMM-------------------TO FLAVOR THE COUSCOUS------------------------
2 tb Sugar
1 ts Confectioners' sugar
5 dr Vanilla extract
2 oz Semisweet chocolate
3 oz Almonds; toasted
2 oz Candied citron
2 oz Candied orange peel
In Sicily, couscous is even a dessert, incorporating the age-old
Mediterranean almonds, rosewater, pistachio nuts, candied citron, and
orange peel as well as chocolate and custard cream, which most likely
were added in later centuries.

Prepare the custard cream. Blanch the pistachio nuts in a pan of
boiling water with coarse salt added (otherwise the nuts will turn
yellow). Dry the nuts with paper towels, then finely chop them on a
board or grind them in a food processor. Place the egg yolks in a
medium-sized crockery or glass bowl, add the sugar, and use a wooden
spoon to mix the sugar into the yolks until they turn a lighter
color. Slowly add the cream, then the lukewarm milk, mixing steadily.
Add the chopped nuts and the rosewater, and mix very well. Place in
the top of a double boiler.

Bring water to a boil in the bottom of the double boiler. When the
water begins to boil, insert the top, making sure the water does not
touch it, and stir constantly with a wooden spoon, always in the same
direction. When the cream coats the spoon, just before it boils
(absolutely do not allow the cream to boil), remove the top of the
double boiler from the heat and continue to stir the contents for 1
minute more. Transfer the custard to an empty wine bottle (to keep
skin from forming), cork it, and refrigerate until needed.

Prepare the couscous: Spread out the grain on a large serving platter
or cookie sheet. Dissolve the salt in a small bowl with 1 cup of the
water. Sprinkle 2 teaspoons of the salted water on the grain, then
use the fingers of one hand to rub some grains against the palm
itself, using a rotating motion to incorporate the water evenly into
the grain. Keep repeating this with additinal teaspoons of salted
water and grains until you have used up 1/4 cup of water and the
couscous is evenly wet all over. Spread the grain evenly over a
cotton dish towel and let rest for 1 hour.

Put 8 cups of water in stockpot. Put a strainer or steamer which fits
snuggly over stockpot. Using the flour and a cup of cold water,
prepare a thcik dough to seal the area connecting the two halves of
the steamer. Roll this dough into a thick rope long enough to fit
around the perimeter of the pot. Using the rope of dough, cover the
circle where the top and bottom parts of the steam meet to seal it.
Place the steamer over medium heat, and when the water reaches a boil
and the steam begins to rise through the holes of the strainer, add
the couscous grain. (It is also convenient to spread a cheesecloth
over the strainer holes to facilitate removing the steamed grains.)
Cover tightly with a lid and steam for 30 minutes.

Spoon out the couscous onto a large platter and start rubbing the
grains between the palms of your hands, incorporating the remaining
3/4 cup of salted water, little by little to separate any that have
stuck together and to retain an even and uniform consistency of
individual grains. Let the couscous rest for 1 hour until cool.

Mix the granulated and confectioners' sugar with the vanilla in a
large bowl. Cut the chocolate into pieces the size of half an almond.
Cut the toasted almonds in half and the candied fruit into pieces the
same size. Add the couscous, chocolate, and almonds to the bowl with
the sugar and mix very well. Transfer the couscous to a large serving
platter and arrange it in one thick layer. Pour the cooled custard
cream over the couscous and serve, spooning out the sweet grain
topped with custard sauce.

Source: "Bugialli on Pasta" by Giuliano Bugialli

