Title: DAKOTA BREAD
Categories: Breads
Yield: 1 Servings
1 pk Active dry yeast
1/4 c  Honey
1/2 c  Warm water (105-115F)
2 1/2 c  Bread flour
1/2 c  Whole wheat flour
1/4 c  Wheat germ
1/4 c  Rye flour
1/4 c  Rolled oats
1 ts Salt
1/2 c  Cottage cheese
1 lg Egg
2 tb Vegetable oil
Oil and cornmeal for pan
1    Egg white; frothed with fork
- for glaze
Additional wheat germ
-=OR=- Oats, for top of loaf
STIR YEAST AND HONEY into water; let stand until foamy, about 5
minutes. For food processor fitted with metal blade or mixer with
dough hook, put remaining bread ingredients into bowl. Turn machine
on and combine mixture. With machine running, slowly add yeast
mixture. Mix until dough cleans sides of bowl. If dough is too
sticky, add more flour by the tablespoon, working it in before adding
more. If dough is crumbly and dry, add more water by the teaspoon,
working it in before adding more. Once desired consistency is
reached, (moist but not sticky), mix dough until well kneaded,
uniformly supple and elastic, about 40 seconds in food processor,
about 6 minutes in mixer. Or by hand, put ingredients in large bowl.
Mix well. Make well in center. Pour yeast mixture into well. Work
yeast mixture into ingredients, then knead on floured board until
smooth and elastic, about 10 minutes. Transfer dough to large plastic
bag, squeeze out air and seal at top. Place dough in bowl. Let rise
in warm spot until doubled, about 1 1/2 hours. Oil a heat-proof glass
pie plate. Sprinkle lightly with cornmeal. Punch dough down and shape
into smooth ball. Place smooth side up in prepared plate. Cover
loosely with oiled plastic. Let rise in warm spot until doubled,
about 1 hour. Fifteen minutes before baking, put rack in center of
oven; set oven at 375F. When loaf has doubled, brush top with egg
white. Sprinkle with wheat germ and(or) rolled oats. Bake until loaf
is deep brown (cover with foil last 5 minutes if too dark) and sounds
hollow when rapped on bottom, about 35 minutes. Place loaf on rack to
cool. Yield: 1 round loaf.

