Title: DAUBE DE BOEUFS AUX CHAMPIGNONS ET A L'ORANGE
Categories: Stews
Yield: 8 Servings
2 1/4 kg Stewing beef
- into large pieces, each
- about 4 ounces
4    Carrots; peeled and cut
Into rounds
3 md Onions; coarsely chopped
2    Garlic cloves
1    Sprig of parsley
1    Celery rib; thickly sliced
3    Bay leaves
1 tb Thyme; fresh
- OR
1 ts Thyme; dried
6 cl Marc de Provence
- or Cognac
7 1/2 dl Red wine; sturdy, such as
- Cotes de Provence
1 tb Olive oil; (1) extra virgine
6 cl Olive oil; (2) extra virgine
1 ts Peppercorns; whole black
3    Cloves; whole
3 tb Butter; unsalted
500 g  Mushrooms
1 tb Tomato paste
Salt
Pepper
1    Orange; grated zest and
- juice
One day before serving the stew: In a large nonreactive bowl, combine
the meat with the carrots, onions, garlic, parsley, celery, bay
leaves, thyme, marc, red wine, and the olive oil (1). Tie the
peppercorns and cloves in a piece of cheesecloth; add to the bowl and
toss well. Cover and refrigerate for 24 hours, stirring once or
twice. Let the meat and vegetables return to room temperature. With a
slotted spoon, remove the meat from the marinade. Drain well; pat dry
on paper towels. Set the vegetables aside. Transfer the liquid and
the cheesecloth bag to a nonreactive large heatproof casserole. Bring
to a boil over medium-high heat. Boil for 5 minutes to reduce
slightly. Remove from the heat. In a large skillet, melt the butter
in the olive oil (2) over high heat. When the foam subsides, add half
of the meat. Saute, tossing, until browned all over, about 5 minutes.
With a slotted spoon, transfer the meat to the liquid in the
casserole. Repeat with the remaining meat. In the same skillet, saute
the reserved vegetables until browned, about 7 minutes. Transfer the
vegetables to the casserole. Add the mushrooms to the skillet. Saute
until lightly browned, about 5 minutes; set aside. Stir the tomato
paste into the casserole. Bring to a simmer over medium-low heat.
Reduce the heat to very low and simmer, skimming occasionally, until
the meat is very tender, 3 1/2 to 4 hours. Stir in salt and pepper to
taste, the mushrooms, and the orange zest and juice. Discard the
cheesecloth bag of cloves and peppercorns. (The recipe can be
prepated 2 to 3 days ahead and refrigerated. Reheat before serving.)
Serve with potatoes, rice, or pasta, and with the same wine used in
cooking, a sturdy red wine.

