Title: DAVE'S COLD-PACKED POLISH DILLS
Categories: Pickles, Vegetables
Yield: 36 Servings
MMMMM----------------------ORIGINAL RECIPE---------------------------
4 lb Pickling cucumbers
8 ea Dill heads
6 ea Cloves of garlic (or more)
8 c  Water
2 c  White vinegar
1/2 c  Pickling salt
1/2 ts Crushed Red Pepper
4 ts Whole mustard seed
MMMMM------------------OPTIONS (PERSONAL TASTES-----------------------
1 ts Alum (option)
3 ts Crushed Red Pepper (option)
2 ts Whole mustard seed (change)
ORIGINAL RECIPE

Wash and dry the cucumbers;  prick a few holes in each with a fork, or
quarter them lengthwise.  Peel and break the garlic cloves. It is
easiest to cut the cloves with a sharp knife into thin slices or
small chunks.

Place half of the dill heads in the bottom of a clean 1-gallon jar.
Add the garlic, crushed red pepper, and mustard seed. Pack loosely
with cucumbers and top with the remaining dill. Refrigerate while
preparing brine.

Combine water, vinegar, and salt in a saucepan.  Heat to boiling,
then cool to room temperature.  Pour the cooled brine over the
cucumbers, making sure they are covered. Screw a lid on the jar and
store in the fridge for about 4 - 6 weeks before serving. If you've
quartered the cucumbers instead of leaving them whole, they will be
ready somewhat sooner (two or three weeks instead).

Ingredients can also be divided between four 1-quart widemouth jars.
It is it more convenient to make a gallon jar batch (takes less of a
footprint in the refrigerator) and then divide up the pickles later
into separate jars when they're ready to eat.  (That frees up the jar
for the next batch, too)
OPTIONS, PERSONAL TASTES AND MODIFICATIONS

A great garlic pickle results from deletion of the dill heads. The
dill heads are not necessary for an excellent pickle.

The addition of a small amount of alum (1 tsp.) makes a marked
improvement in the flavor of the pickles.  I recommend the addition
highly.

For hot dill pickles, increase the pepper flakes to 2 or 2 1/2 tsp.
Cut the cucumbers in 1 inch slices instead of length wise for
identification purposes.

This pickle has a pronounced mustard flavor when pickling is complete.
Reduce the mustard seed to 2 tsp if desired . This produces a pickle
closer to those found in the stores.

The following can be added. 6 to 8 whole pepper corns, 3 to 4 mace
heads and 1/2 tsp. whole corriander. Other spices can be used. Do not
use pickling spice mixes bought in stores. These are meant for sweet
pickles.

