Title: DAVE'S RIBS
Categories: Main
Yield: 1 Servings
2    7 pound racks of pork ribs
1/2 c  Ground black pepper
1/2 c  Paprika
1/2 c  Sugar
2 tb Kosher or sea salt
4 ts Dry mustard
2 ts Cayenne pepper
The night before...

The ribs should be trimmed of all hard fat and the membrane removed
from the underside. To remove it, poke a hole and run your finger
under the membrane, then rip it away.

Rub both sides of the ribs with a thick coat of the following mixture:

*  1/2 cup ground black pepper * 1/2 cup paprika * 1/2 cup sugar (run
this through the coffee grinder to make TURBINADO sugar) * 2
tablespoons Kosher or sea salt (run this through the coffee grinder
with the sugar) * 4 teaspoons dry mustard * 2 teaspoons cayenne pepper

Place the ribs in a plastic bag and refrigerate overnight.

(Thanks to Smoke & Spice by Cheryl and Bill Jamison, published by The
Harvard Common Press, Boston, Massachusetts, $14.95, for the
inspiration for this rub. If you are only planning to buy ONE
barbecue book, this is it!) More barbecue books at the end of this
page.

The next day. Remove the ribs from the refrigerator and let them come
to room temperature.

Start a fire in your Webber Grill or smoker with charcoal. As the
coals turn gray add hard wood chunks or water soaked wood chips.
Bring the smoker temperature to between 210 and 225 degrees by
adjusting the vents. Hold this temperature throughout the smoking (90
minutes) by adding more wood or charcoal.

Place the ribs on the rack and smoke cook them, in heavy smoke, for at
least two hours. Add wood or chips every 30 minutes or so. The ribs
should have a dark "crust" formed by the smoke clinging to the rub.
Try not to knock it off when handling them, that is where the flavor
is!

Preheat the oven to 225 degrees. Place the ribs on racks over cookie
sheets and place in oven. Cook for three hours, or until the rib
bones are easily removed when you twist them. These are called "dry
ribs". No extra spices or MOP was used in the cooking process.

To make juicier ribs, brush them with barbecue sauce (the recipe
follows) and cover with aluminum foil to bake for the last hour.

Ribs can be made a day or two ahead and reheated in a warm oven (the
way restaurants do!)

Serve with barbecue beans, coleslaw, potato salad, and plenty of cold
beer. Enjoy!

: Dave Frary
Recipe By

