Title: DE-GASSING BEANS
Categories: Digest, Mar95, Text
Yield: 1 Servings
1 ea Text file
Here's a method for de-gassing dried beans that seems to work. It's
from the new book Fat Free, Flavor Full by Dr. Gabe Mirkin and Diana
Rich.

"Put the beans in a large pot and cover them with water. Bring them
to a boil and take them off the heat. This breaks the capsules
surrounding the beans and allows stachyose, verbascose and raffinose,
the gas-causing sugars, to escape into the water.  Stir a couple of
tablespoons of baking soda into the water and let the beans soak
overnight. Drain the soaking water off the beans and rinse them
several times. (If you eat the soaking liquid, you will cause
unbelievable discomfort for yourself and those around you.)" Then you
cook 'em and eat 'em. End of story, so to speak. I've used this
method with pinto beans, but rarely soak them for more than 4 hours
(because when I'm hungry for beans I want them today, not tomorrow).
I've found it better than Beano, but of course your mileage may vary.

Source: Summarized from _Fat Free, Flavor Full_, Dr. Gabe Mirkin &
Diana Rich.

Posted by paul.barker@tcs.wap.org (Paul Barker) to the Fatfree Digest
[Volume 16 Issue 19] Mar. 23, 1995.

~ - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

From:    mvaldez@ccmail.gc.cc.fl.us Subject: Re: Socially unacceptable
beans

My aunt gave me a very helpful hint in regards to reducing the
odiferous properties of beans.  She did this with pinto beans, but I
am guessing that it would work with any type. Cut up about three or
four carrots into good size chunks, and put them in the beans, and
leave them there the whole time you cook them and stuff. They
supposedly absorbed the gas. It seemed to really work.  Just DON'T
eat the carrots; throw them away. If you even have a nibble, it'll be
dangerous!

Posted by mvaldez@ccmail.gc.cc.fl.us to the Fatfree Digest [Volume 16
Issue 21] Mar. 25, 1995. Individual recipes copyrighted by
originator. FATFREE Recipe collections copyrighted by Michelle Dick
1995. Formatted by Sue Smith, SueSmith9@aol.com using MMCONV.
Archived through kindness of Karen Mintzias, km@salata.com.

1.80รก

