Title: DEANNE'S HERBED LENTIL LOAF
Categories: Vegetarian, Main dish, Vegan
Yield: 8 Servings
4 1/2 c  Water
2 c  Lentils, cleaned/rinsed
1/2 lb Firm tofu, crumbled
1/4 c  Rolled oats
1/4 c  Soy sauce
1/4 ts Freshly ground black pepper
1 c  Fresh parsley, minced
1/2 c  Fresh basil, finely chopped
-OR-
2 ts Dried basil
1 ts Rubbed sage
1 tb Olive oil
3    Celery ribs with leaves
-finely chopped
1 md Onion, finely chopped
1 md Onion, finely chopped
3    Garlic cloves, minced
MMMMM--------------------------TOPPING-------------------------------
1 c  Raw almonds
2 tb Nutritional yeast flakes
1 tb Soy sauce
MMMMM--------------------MUSHROOM MISO SAUCE-------------------------
1/4 c  Whole wheat pastry flour
1/3 c  Nutritional yeast flakes
1/4 c  Brown rice miso
1 tb Olive oil
1 sm Onion, finely chopped
1 c  Mushrooms, thinly sliced
2 c  Water
Preheat the oven to 350F degrees. Lightly oil an 8 x 8 baking pan.

Put 3 1/2 cups of the water and the lentils in a large saucepan.
Cover and bring to a boil over medium-high heat, then immediately
reduce the heat and simmer until the water is absorbed, 50 to 60
minutes.

Meanwhile, put the tofu, the remaining 1 cup water, the oats, soy
sauce and pepper in a blender and blend until smooth. Add the
parsley, basil, thyme, and sage and pulse just to mix. Transfer to a
large bowl.

Heat the olive oil in a large frying pan over medium-high heat. Add
the celery, onion, and garlic and cook until softened, about 6
minutes. Add to the tofu mixture.

Add cooked lentils to tofu-vegetable mixure, and stir to mix. Press
the mixture firmly into the prepared pan, and bake for 15 minutes.

Meanwhile, put the almonds, yeast flakes and soy sauce in a food
processor fitted with the metal blade, and pulse to coarsely chop.

Sprinkle the topping over the top of the lentil loaf and bake for 15
minutes more. Let the loaf cool for 10 minutes before cutting into
squares. Serve with the Mushroom Miso Sauce on the side.

Mushroom Miso Sauce:

Put flour in a small dry frying pan over medium heat and toast,
stirring often, until it has darkened evenly to a light brown.
Transfer the browned flour into a medium bowl.

In a small bowl, stir the nutritonal yeast, miso and hot water
together.

In a medium saucepan, heat the olive oil over medium heat. Sautee
onion until softened, about 5 mins. Add mushrooms and saute until
lightly brown, about 5 mins.

Meanwhile, add 2 cups water to the browned flour. Whisk until well
combined.

Spoon flour mixture into the mushrooms, and simmer, whisking often,
until the mixture is thickened, 1 to 2 mins. Stir in the nutritional
yeast and miso mixture. Bring just to a simmer, and remove from the
heat. Serve hot.

Source:  From DEEANNE's recipe files

