Title: DEATH BY CHOCOLATE  *  PART 3
Categories: Desserts, Chocolate
Yield: 12 Servings
MMMMM-----------------PART 3 DIRECTIONS CONTINUE----------------------
To prepare the chocolate brownie layer, coat a 9 x 1 1/2" cake pan
with 1 t butter.  Flour the pan with 1 t flour, shaking out the
excess. Pour the Simply The Best Brownie batter into the prepared
cake pan, spreading evenly.  Place the pan in the pre-heated oven and
bake the brownie until a toothpick inserted in the center comes out
clean, about 30 minutes. Remove the brownie from the ovrn and allow
to cool in the pan at room temperature for 5 minutes.  Turn out onto
a cake circle and refrigerate for 15 to 20 minutes.  Remove the
brownie from the brownie from the refrigerature ans cut in half
horizontally.  Koop the brownie at room temperature until needed. To
prepare the ganache, heat 1 1/2 c heavy cream and 3 T butter in a 2
1/2-quart saucepan over medium-high heat. Bring to a boil. Place 22
oz of semi-sweet chocolate in a stainless steel bowl. Pour the
boiling cream over the chocolate and allow to stand for 5 minutes.
Stir until smooth. Keep at room temperature until needed. To prepare
the mocha mousse, heat 1 inch of water in the bottom half of the
double boiler over medium-high heat. Place 14 oz semi-sweet
chocolate, 4 oz unsweetened chocolate, the water, instant coffee, and
2 T cocoa in the top half of the double boiler. Tightly cover the top
with film wrap. Heat for 6 to 7 minutes, remove the film wrap, and
stir the mixture until smooth. Keep at room temperature until needed.
Place 5 egg whites in the bowl of an electric mixer with a balloon
whip. Whisk on high until soft peaks form, about 1 minute. Continue
to whisk while gradually adding 2 tablespoons sugar. Whisk until
stiff, about 30 seconds. Whip 3/4 c heavy cream in a well-chilled
stainless steel bowl until stiff. Fold 1/4 of the egg whites into the
melted chocolate mixture, then fold in the whipped cream. Now fold in
the remaining egg whites. Keep the mocha mousse at room temperature.
TO ASSEMBLE DEATH BY CHOCOLATE: Place a closed 9 x 3" springform pan
on a baking sheet. Set the top half of the chocolate brownie inside
the pan, top side up. Ladle 1 1/2 c of ganache into the pan over the
chocolate brownie. Trim the cocoa meringue with a serrated knife so
that it will fit tightly into the pan. Place the trimmed cocoa
meringue, top side up, inside the pan on top of the ganache, pressing
down gently on the cocoa meringue, spreading evenly. Place the
remaining chocolate brownie half, bottom side up, on top of the mocha
mousse. Chill the cake in the freezer for 30 minutes or refrigerate
for 1 hour. See Part 4.

