Title: DEATH BY CHOCOLATE HELP PART # 3 OF 3
Categories: Desserts, Cakes
Yield: 1 Servings
45 oz Semisweet chocolate
2 1/2 oz Unsweetened chocolate
1 1/8 c  Heavy cream
3/4 c  Granulated sugar
2 ts Pure vanilla extract
15    Eggs
15 tb Plus 1 ts unsalted butter
10 tb Cocoa
8 tb Plus 1 ts all-purpose flour
1/2 c  Water
5 tb Instant coffee
2 tb Sour cream
1 tb Cornstarch
2 ts Pure vanilla extract
2 ts Dark rum
3/4 ts Salt
1/2 ts Baking powder
1/8 ts Cream of tartar
Total weight of ingredients: about 10 pounds, 2.1/2oz. Total cost of
ingredients: it may be less expensive to visit the Trellis!

For organizational & shopping convenience the above is a compilation
of all the ingredients needed to produce Death By Chocolate The Chefs
Touch! You will not find the recipe for Death by Chocolate in a
culinary lexicon. It is a contemporary concoction, an amalgam of
cocoa meringue, chocolate mousse, chocolate ganache, chocolate
brownie & mocha mousse, structured in an extraordinary, albeit sound
manner. A fair warning must be issued that this is a time & money
consuming recipe. It is best to start work on this cake very early in
the day if it is to be served that evening. Death by Chocolate may be
held for two to three days under refrigeration, but it is at its best
when served within 24 hours of completion. The preparation in one day
of all the chocolate components of this cake might seem overwhelming.
To prepare in advance, spread the production out over a period of
three days.

Day 1: Prepare the chocolate brownie & keep refrigerated until cake
assembly.

Day 2:  Bake the cocoa meringue & store in a dry place at room
temperature (between 68 & 78 degrees). Prepare the chocolate rum
sauce, refrigerate until two hours before service, then bring to room
temperature.

Day 3: Prepare the chocolate mousse, mocha mousse & ganache. Assemble
cake. Use the 9" bottom of the springform pan to trace the circle
onto parchment paper. Be certain that the meringue completely fills
the traced circle. If the meringue is not large enough, the sides of
the cake will be uneven. Do not be concerned if the meringue slightly
overlaps the circle.; any excess may be trimmed off after the
meringue has been baked. Baked meringues are very brittle; handle
with care. Use a very sharp serrated knife to trim the meringue;
otherwise the meringue will break apart.

If the mocha mousse is prepared several hours in advance of the
assembly of the cake, it should be refrigerated  until 1 to 1.1/2
hours before assembly, at which time it should be allowed to temper
at room temperature (if it is too cold it will be too difficult to
spread evenly over the delicate mocha meringue). If the ganache
solidifies, place the bowl containing the ganache in a pan of water &
stir until the texture is correct for pouring. Use several toothpicks
inserted in the sides of the chocolate brownie as guides to
accurately halve the brownie horizontally. The preparations may also
be completed using a hand held mixer, but preparation time may
increase slightly.

