Title: OMELET ARNOLD BENNETT
Categories: Breakfast
Yield: 2 Servings
6 lg Eggs (the fresher
-the better)
6 oz Smoked haddock
-(or other smoked large-
-flaked white fish)
2/3 c  Cream, heavy
Butter
2 oz Cheddar (sharp),
-finely grated (the
-light yellow New York/
-Vermont style is best)
1 pn Dill
1 pn Salt and pepper
Prepare the fish by poaching it lightly (5 minutes) and then breaking
it up into nice large flakes.

Whip the cream and fold in the grated cheese.  Add the fish and set
aside. (The remaining steps are a basic omelet recipe and can be used
with any filling.  Crack the eggs, beat them up with the dill, salt
and pepper.)

Meanwhile heat a frying pan.  Add a knob of butter and let it melt.
When it has stopped frothing and is just beginning to go brown...

Slop in half the egg mixture and immediately return to the heat and
stir the eggs two or three times; then with a fork draw the edges
into the middle and allow the un-solidified egg to run onto the
exposed pan.

While it is still a mixture of fluffy and runny, add the haddock and
cream mixture.  Continue to cook until underside begins to turn
golden brown. Fold over and serve on a hot plate with bread and
butter immediately. (You can't leave it in the oven for ten minutes
while you do another!)

NOTES:

*  Omelet with cream and smoked fish filling -- In the vein of artery
cloggers, this recipe must be one of the highest-cholesterol dishes
I've come across in years. It may sound unconventional, but delicious
it most certainly is. I came upon it in the Bistro under the Everyman
Theatre in Liverpool, circa 1978. The following is my reconstruction
of the dish I had there.

*  My guess, although I haven't yet tried, is that the smoked haddock
could be substituted with any large-flaked smoked white fish, like
cod perhaps. The important point is that it should not have an
overpowering flavour. I bought mine in a Scottish specialty shop in
Kearny, NJ. Also, you should grate the cheese as finely as possible
so that it blends smoothly with the cream.

*  Now a diatribe on omelet pans.  I have always been most successful
with a small thin tinned-copper omelet pan (which loses its heat and
reheats very quickly), and a heavy cast iron skillet, which maintains
an even hot temperature (and doesn't need to be reheated after adding
the egg mixture). Aluminum and stainless steel pans tend to cool down
too much and then take too long to reheat which results in a dry
leathery omelet. (But, there again, you may like 'em like that.)

: Difficulty:  easy to moderate.
: Time:  15 minutes.
: Precision:  measuring spoils the fun.

: Marcus G Hand
: AT&T Information Systems, Holmdel, New Jersey
: ihnp4!mtunh!mgh
: The way to a man's heart-attack is through his stomach...

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

