Title: ORANGE TRIFLE
Categories: Desserts
Yield: 10 Servings
4    Egg yolks
1/2 c  Sugar
1/4 c  Flour
1 tb Cornstarch
2 1/2 c  Milk
1 tb Packed finely grated
Orange peel
5    Large navel oranges
54    Almond meringues
1 c  Chopped walnuts
1    Sponge cake or
18 3-inch ladyfingers
1/2 c  Seedless raspberry jam
6 tb Medium-dry sherry
2 c  Heavy cream, chilled
1 tb Confectioner's sugar
2 ts Vanilla extract
In a medium heatproof bowl, whisk the egg yolks with the granulated
sugar, flour and cornstarch until thoroughly blended. In a heavy
medium saucepan, combine the milk and the orage zest and bring to a
boil over moderate heat. Gradually whisk the boiling milk into the
egg mixture. Clean the saucepan and strain the custard into it. Bring
to a boil over moderate heat, whisking constantly, about 3 minutes.
Reduce the heat to moderately low and cook, whisking constantly, for
2 minutes longer. Pour the custard into a clean bowl and whisk until
slightly cooled, about 1 minute. Let cool to room temp, whisking
occasionally to prevent a skin forming. Cover and refrigerate for at
least 2 hours. (The custard can be made up to 2 days in advance)
Using a small sharp knife, peel the oranges, making sure to remove
all of the bitter white pith. Working over a bowl, cut between the
membranes to release the segments. You should have 3 cups of orange
sections and juice. (The oranges can be prepared up to 2 days ahead;
cover and refrigerate) Set aside 12 of the Almond Meringues and 1/4
cup of the walnuts for garnish. Cut the cake into 18 3-2-inch pieces.
Spread 1 side of each piece of sponge cake or each ladyfinger with
the raspberry jam. In a deep 4-quart nonreactive serving bowl,
preferably glass, arrange 1/3 of the sponge cake pieces or
ladyfingers in a single layer, jam side up. Sprinkle 2 tb of the
sherry over the cake. Scatter 1/3 of the orange section, with their
juice, on top. Scatter 1/3 of the remaining meringues between the
sponge cake pieces and sprinkle with 1/3 of the remaining walnuts.
Spread 1/3 of the custard evenly on top. Repeat the layering of
sponge cake, sherry, orange sections, meringues, walnuts and custard
2 more times. Cover the trifle and refrigerate overnight. In a large
bowl, whip the cream with the confectioner's sugar and vanilla until
stiff. Spread or pipe the whipped cream over the top of the trifle.
Refrigerate until serving time. (The trifle can be prepared to this
point up to 4 hours ahead.) Just before serving, arrange the reserved
meringues over the top of the trifle and sprinkle the remaining 1/4 c
walnuts on top. Source: Food and Wine November 1992

