Title: ORANGE PINEAPPLE PRALINE CAKE
Categories: Cakes
Yield: 10 Servings
1 pk Yellow cake mix w/pudding
2    Eggs
Orange juice
2 tb Grated orange peel
1 cn 20 oz well drained canned
-crushed pineapple-reserve
-juice
1 cn 3 1/2 oz sweetened coconut
1/2 c  Light brown sugar, packed
1/2 c  Chopped pecans or walnuts
1/4 c  Butter, melted
2 c  Heavy cream
6    Maraschino cherries w/stems
1. Preheat oven to 350F. Grease and flour 2 9" round cake pans. Set
aside.

2. Prepare the yellow cake mix as the package directs using the 2
eggs and substituting orange juice for water listed in the
directions. Stir in grated orange peel into the cake batter; turn
one-fourth of the cake batter into each pan; using a spoon, spread
each half with half of the pineapple. Spoon the remaining batter over
the pineapple and place cake pans on the center rack in the oven and
bake for 30- 35 minutes or until surface sprinkgs back when gently
pressed with fingertip.

3. Prepare the praline topping: In a small bowl, toss coconut, brown
sugar and nuts with melted butter. At the end of the baking time,
remove the layers from the oven. Spoon the praline mixture onto the
surface of one layer; return to the oven to bake for 10 minutes
longer. Let the second layer cool slightly in pan and then transfer
to a wire rack to cool completely.

4. Remove praline layer from oven. Cool slighly. Place a piece of foil
about 12 inches square on the wire rack. Carefully transfer to foil
on the rack to cool completely. If praline mixture falls off cake,
sprinkle back on. Put heavy cream in a small bowl.

5. Beat cream on high until stiff peaks hold when beaters are lifted.
Place plain layer on platter; spread with half the cream. Add the
praline-topped layer. Frost sides with remaining whipped cream; pipe
rosettes on top and place cherries in the center of each rosette.
Refrigerate until ready to serve.

Serves: 10-12

Source: McCalls Cooking School Typed for you by: Linda Fields,
Cyberealm BBS Watertown, NY 1993 315-786-1120

