Title: ORANGE-ALMOND SOUR CREAM CAKE WITH CHOCOLATE
Categories: Chocolate, Cakes
Yield: 8 Servings
1/3 c  Chocolate mini-morsels OR 2
-ounces semisweet
Chocolate cut into small
-pieces
1/2 ts Orange-flavored liqueur
1 ts PLUS 1 2/3 cups sifted cake
-flour
2    Eggs
2/3 c  Sour cream
1 ts Orange flower water * OR
-vanilla extract
2/3 c  Sugar
1 ts Baking powder
1/2 ts Baking soda
1/2 ts Salt
1/3 c  Unblanched sliced almonds,
-toasted, cooled
And ground fine (1 1/4
-ounces)
1 tb Grated zest from 1 medium
-orange
11 tb Unsalted butter, softened
* NOTE: The orange flower
-water, which is used to
-flavor
The batter, is distilled
-fromn orange blossoms
And can be purchased at
-liquor stores, pharmacies
And Middle Eastern or Indian
-food narkets.
ORANGE SYRUP
1/3 c  Sugar
3 tb Orange juice
1/4 c  Orange-flavored liqueur
For the cake:  Grease and flour a 6-cup fluted tube pan and set
aside. Mix the chocolate chips and liqueur in a small bowl. Add 1
tablespoon of flour and toss to coat the chips. Set aside. Beat the
eggs, 3 tablespoons of the sour cream, and the orange flower water in
a medium bowl; set aside. Mix the next six ingredients plus the
remaining 1 2/3 cups of flour in a large bowl at very low speed. Add
the butter and remaining sour cream; beat at low speed until the dry
ingredients are moistened. Beat a t medium speed for 1 1/2 minutes to
aerate and develop the cake's structure. Gradually beat in the egg
mixture, one-third at a time, scraping down the sides of the bowl as
it becomes necessary. Stir in the chocolate chip mixture. Adjust the
oven rack to middle position and heat the oven to 350F. Pour the
batter into the prepared pan and smooth the surface with a spatula.
Bake until a cake tester inserted in the center comes out clean and
the center springs back when touched, 40 to 45 minutes. Transfer the
cake in its pan to a wire rack. Prick the entire cake top with a
toothpick. For the syrup: Put the sugar, orange juice, and
orange-flavored liqueur in a small saucepan.  Bring to a boil and
simmer until the sugar dissolves, about 1 minute. Brush the top of
the cake with half the syrup. Cool the cake in the pan for 10
minutes. Remove the cake from the pan and place, rounded side up, on
a cake plate. Brush cake surface with the remaining syrup; cool
completely.  (Can wrap and store at room temperature up to 3 days,
refrigerate up to 7 days, or freeze up to 2 months.) To serve: (Bring
the cake to room temperature.) Cut cake in slices and serve.

Makes 8 servings.

[ COOKS Magazine; October 1989 ]

