Title: ORECCHIETTE DELL'ORTOLANO (GARDERNER'S SYTLE
Categories: Side dishes
Yield: 6 Servings
1 lb Eggplant; * see note
2    Red bell peppers; ** see not
1/2 lb Asparagus; *** see note
2 lb Fava beans; peeled
1 lb Orecchiette pasta
Salt; to taste
Black pepper; to taste
4 tb Extra virgin olive oil
3    Cl Garlic; peeled & chopped
Recipe by: Tess Mercer <tess@NANOTHINC.COM> * washed and sliced 1/2
inch thinck, unpeeled ** fire-roasted, peeled and seeded *** cleaned,
boiled and cut into 1-inch pieces

Orecchiette Dell'Ortolano (Garderner's Sytle Little Ear Pasta)

Brush the sliced eggplant with some of the olive oil and sprinkle
with salt and peper to taste.  Broil the eggplant on both sides,
turning it once, until it is soft and nicely brown. Cut into large
cubes and set aside. Pu the bell peppers on an open flame to scorch
them and remove the skin, seeds and core (or seedn and core the
ppers, cut them into quarters and place the under the broiler to
loosen the skin).  Cut the pepper into medium strips and set aside.

Cook the asparagus spears in lightly saled water for about 4 minutes.
Drai and let them cool.  Do not put them into cold water. Cut the
aspargus into 1 inch pieces and set aside. Peel off the rough outer
skin of the fava bans.  Remove the tender little bain in the inside
pods. Discard all but the little bean.

Drop the pasta into rapidly boiling, lightly salted water. Stir well,
and often, for about 8 minutes or a little less (the pasta must be al
dente). Meanwhile, heat the olive oil in a large skillet and when it
is hot add the garlic.  Saute the garlic for about 1 minute or until
it is just golden. Add the eggplant, bell pepper, asparagus, fava
beans and some salt and pepp to taste.  Let the mixture cook for
about 3 minutes on medium heat.

When the pasta is done, drain off all but a tiny bit of cooking
water. Add pasta to the skillet with the other ingredients and toss
well. Serve very hot in heated pasta bowls.

Serves 6.

(c) Carlo Middione - Vivande Ristorante, as printed in SF Examiner
Epicure, 4/26/95)

