Title: OSSO BUCO WITH SAFFRON RISOTTO FENNEL~ RED ON
Categories: New, Text, Import
Yield: 6 Servings
Prepare the osso buco:
3 tb Olive oil
2 tb Unsalted butter
3    1 1/2 inch cut veal shanks
Salt and pepper to taste
2 c  Flour (to coat)
Peel and cut the following
-vegetables into
2    Carrots
2    Onions
1    Zucchini
1    Yellow squash
1    Sachet (1/2 head of garlic,
-6 sprigs parsley, 3 s
3 c  White wine
1/2 c  Tomato sauce
2 c  Veal stock
Pre-heat oven to 325 degrees. Using a small, thick-bottomed rondeau,
heat the olive oil and butter over medium high. Season the veal shanks
thoroughly with salt and pepper. Coat the veal shanks with flour,
shake to remove any excess, and brown well. Remove veal shanks from
rondeau. Make the sachet: Add the vegetables and the sachet to the
pan. Stir to coat and place the veal shanks on top. Add the wine,
tomato sauce and stock, adjust the seasoning, and bring the mixture
to a boil. Cover and cook the veal shanks in the oven for 1 1/2
hours, or until the meat is very tender Start the risotto: 1/3 cup
diced onion 1/4 cup diced shallots 1 tablespoons minced garlic 1 1/2
tablespoons olive oil 1 1/2 cups Arborio rice 1/4 teaspoon saffron
Salt and pepper to taste 1 cup white wine 4 cups chicken stock 1
tablespoons butter 1/4 cup Parmesan cheese In a large sauce pot over
medium heat, sweat the onion, shallots and garlic in the olive oil.
When vegetables are soft, add the rice and saffron, and salt and
pepper to taste. Stir and continue cooking to toast the rice. When
the rice is slightly browned, add the wine, stirring constantly. In a
separate sauce pot, bring the chicken stock to a boil. Add the hot
stock to the rice in three batches, stirring constantly until the
liquid is fully absorbed. Continue the osso buco: Remove the shanks
from the rondeau and reduce the jus to your taste. Make the tomato
fondu: 1/4 cup olive oil 1 medium red onion, peeled and finely diced
Kosher salt and freshly ground pepper to taste 4 cloves garlic,
peeled and chopped 16-ounce can Italian plum tomatoes, crushed by
hand Warm olive oil in a stainless sauce pot over medium heat. Add
the onions and simmer for 5-10 minutes until the onions are soft.
Season with salt and pepper. Add the chopped garlic and simmer for
1-2 minutes, carefully cooking but not browning the garlic (the oil
should stew the vegetables). Add the tomatoes, and continue cooking
another 10 minutes, or until the liquid is reduced and slightly
thickened. Make the gremolata 1/2 cup chopped Italian parsley 1
tablespoon chopped garlic 1 tablespoons chopped lemon zest Combine
and reserve. Make the salad 1 orange 1 fennel bulb, trimmed 1 red
onion, peeled 1/2 lemon Salt and pepper to taste 1/4 cup extra virgin
olive oil 3 tablespoons chopped chives Peel an orange down to the
flesh. Using a knife, separate each segment from the surrounding
membrane and remove. Place segments in a bowl. Squeeze orange halves
over bowl to release any remaining juice. Using a sturdy Japanese
mandolin, shave the fennel, white bulb down at an angle. Place fennel
in a mixing bowl, and then shave the onion. Add onion to bowl, and
toss. Add the juice of 1/2 lemon, the juice from the orange, salt and
pepper to taste, and the olive oil. Toss again. Add the orange
segments and chives, tossing once more, and serve. Fold the butter
and cheese into the risotto, reserve over low heat. Pour jus over the
shanks, top with gremolata, and serve with saffron risotto. Yield: 6
servings. Posted to MC-Recipe Digest V1 #1

Recipe by: CHEF DU JOUR RICK MOONEN SHOW #DJ9324; TVFN

From: "Ed Bauman" <BIRCHCREEK@msn.com>

Date: Thu, 5 Dec 96 19:56:03 UT

