Title: OSSO BUCO (PRODIGY)
Categories: Meats, Italian, Main dish
Yield: 6 Servings
2 oz Butter
1/2 c  Thinly sliced onion
2 lg Veal shanks (5 1/2-to-6 lb)
- cut in 3 pieces each
Flour for dredging
Salt
Freshly ground black pepper
1/2 c  White wine
1 tb Tomato paste; dissolved in
1/2 c  Water
1 lg Clove garlic; minced
1 tb Minced parsley
1/2    Lemon; Grated peel only
The garlic-parsley-lemon peel finish is called "gremolata" and is
classic. The hollow bone (osso buco) of the veal shanks gives this
dish its name.

MELT THE BUTTER in a large casserole. Add the sliced onion and saute
over medium heat until soft and just beginning to color (about 10
minutes). With a slotted spoon, remove the onion to a plate and press
it against the plate to extract its juices and let them run back into
the pan. Discard the onion. Dry the veal pieces with paper towels.
Flour them lightly and brown them over medium heat in the
onion-flavored butter. Salt and pepper the pieces, raise heat to
medium-high and pour on half the wine. After a moment, turn the
pieces of veal over, salt and pepper the other sides. Pour on the
rest of the wine when the first half has evaporated. When all the
wine has evaporated, arrange the veal pieces so that the wide marrow
opening is up. Add the diluted tomato paste, cover, and cook over low
heat about 1 1/2 hours, or until the veal is tender. During that
time, move the pieces around to prevent them from sticking, and baste
them occasionally with their cooking juices, using a bulb baster, but
don't turn them over lest the marrow dissolve and run out. (You can
add a tablespoon or 2 of warm water if the sauce seems to be drying
out--but the veal will probably exude plenty of its own juices after
the first half hour of cooking.) While the veal is cooking, finely
chop together the garlic, parsley and lemon. Five minutes before
serving, stir it into the casserole. Classically, this dish is served
with risotto Milanese, made with saffron and Parmesan cheese, but any
simple rice or pasta preparation will do.

TOM MARESCA AND DIANE DARROW - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK

