Title: OUTLAW CHILE RELLENOS
Categories: Southwest, Chile, Cheese
Yield: 48 Servings
8    Fresh anaheim chiles(may
-usecanned
2    Eggs
1/2 ts Dried mexican oregano
1 tb Powdered garlic
1 tb Water
4 c  Bread crumbs, fresh or
-store bought
1/4    Grated parmesan cheese
1/4 lb Monterey jack or jalapeño
-cheese, sliced 3/4 inch
-thick
1/2 c  Flour seasoned with a
-little salt and pepper
Chef Roberto Garcia: In my family we had no such laws governing the
consumption or use of chiles, but perhaps we should have. My
grandmother's remedy for a sty was to rub it with the tip of a fresh
jalapeño pepper. Ouch! My brothers and I learned quickly to look down
at our shoes while walking near our grandmother. The following recipe
for chile rellenos is not hot, but it is very delicious and easy to
prepare. However, don't get caught eating them in Cloud, California.
You may be charged with "willful negligence," for eating chiles
during a worship service. Just to be sure, you'd better check with
your local municipality for any "unruly chile laws" in your
community. If using fresh chiles, first blister them in the oven or
use your favorite method. Remove the skins. Cut a small slit in the
chile's base and scoop out the seeds with a tablespoon and discard
them (canned chiles are already peeled and seeded). In a medium-sized
mixing bowl, mix the eggs, oregano, garlic and water until
well-blended. On a large plate or piece of wax paper, thoroughly mix
the bread crumbs and Parmesan cheese. Place the flour on a smaller
plate or use a piece of wax paper. Butter or grease a cookie sheet.
Put a stick of cheese into each chile. One at a time, dust each chile
with flour, dip them into the egg batter, and place the chile on top
of the bread crumbs. Pat the chiles with the bread crumbs, making
sure the entire chile has been covered. Preheat the oven to 375
degrees. Place the chiles on the greased cookie sheet. Drizzle the
butter the chiles and bake for 20 minutes. Serve with rice and beans.
¡PROVECHO!

