Title: OVEN ROASTED APPLES WITH CIDER SABAYON
Categories: Desserts, Fruits, Martha stew
4    Mutsu Or Any Firm, Crisp
Apples,Such
As Granny Smith, Or Golden
Delicious
Peeled And Cut In Half
Lengthwise
And Cored
Yield: 4 Servings
:
:
:
:
:
:
1/3 c  Plus 1 Tablespoon Sugar
1/4 c  Maple Syrup
Zest Of One Orange, Cut Into
Julienne
Zest Of One Lemon, Cut Into
Julienne
:
:
:
:
3 TB Lemon Juice
2    Fresh Or Dried Bay Leaves
1/2    Vanilla Bean, Split In Half
Lengthwise
:
1/4 ts Cinnamon
1/4 ts Mace
pn Nutmeg
:
1    Whole Star Anise
4 TB Unsalted Butter
Apple Cider Sabayon (Recipe
Follows)
:
:

Heat the oven to 250F.  Place the cut apples, 1 tbls. sugar, maple
syrup, orange zest, lemon zest, lemon juice, bay leaves, vanilla
bean, cinnamon, mace, nutmeg, and star anise ina medium mixing bowl.
Toss the mixture well to combine. Melt te remaining 1/3 cup sugar in
a 12 inch cast iron skillet over medium high heat until the sugar has
caramelized, about 4 minutes. If the sugar starts to brown unevenly,
stir occasionally, with a wooden spoon. Add the butter, and cook
until melted. Reduce the heat to medium. Carefully placethe apple
halves, cut side down, into the skillet, and pour the rest of the
ingredients from the mixing bowl over the apples. Cook for 4 to 6
minutes, until the apples begin to caramelize and the sauce starts to
thicken slightly. Transfer the skillet to the oven, and bake for
about 40 minutes. Remove the skillet from the oven and using a
spatula or tongs, carefully turn the apples over. Bake 20 minutes
more, until the apples are very tender. Se! rve immediately with
Apple Cider Sabayon.

Apple Cider Sabayon Makes 3 cups

For best results, when setting sabayon over simmering water in step 2
choose a bowl that just fits inside the pot.

1/4    cup sugar 4 large egg yolks
1/2    cup sparkling apple cider 2 tbls. Calvados, ( a french
apple brandy- regular brandy can be substituted) 1/4 cup heavy cream
(1/2 cup whipped)

Fill a medium stockpot a quarter of the way full with water. Bring to
a boil, then reduce heat and let simmer. Fill a large bowl with ice
water; set aside. Combine sugar and egg yolks in bowl of an electric
mixer fitted with paddle attachment, and beat until mixture is pale
and has a thick consistency, about 2 to 3 minutes. Scrape down sides
of bowl with rubber spatula one time while beating. Add cider and
Calvados,and beat for 2 more minutes Transfer the yolk mixture to a
large metal bowk, and set over simmering water. Whisk together for 6
to 8 minutes, until the sabayon thickens and is fluffy and slightly
stiff. The sabayon should begin to look satiny and start sticking to
the bowl slightly. The air bubles will become very fine, instead of
large and loose. Set bowl in ice water bath. Continue whisking
sabayon untl chilled, about 3 minutes. Whip the cream to medium stiff
peaks, and fold into chilled sabayon. The sabayon can be stored in
refrigerator for up to 24 hours.

: Martha Stewart Oct. 1996
Recipe By

Date: 09/26/96

