Title: PAD THAI.
Categories: Main dish, Thai
Yield: 6 Servings
1/2 lb Dried Rice Noodles (1/8" w).
1/2 lb Shrimp, chicken, or pork. *
1/4 c  Fish Sauce.
6 tb Sugar.
6 tb White Vinegar.
1 tb Tomato Paste.
4    Scallions.
1/2 c  Vegetable Oil (Approx.).
2    Cloves Garlic, chopped fine
2    Eggs.
1/4 lb Bean Sprouts.
2 tb Ground Roasted Chilies.
1/4 c  Ground Roasted Peanuts.
Lime Wedges.
* The meat used may be either fresh shrimps, chicken, pork, or
combinations.  The traditional uses dried shrimps and hard tofu pieces
rather than fresh meat.

Soak the noodles for 20 to 25 minutes in enough warm water to cover.
They should be soft, but not so soft that they can be mashed easily
with the fingers. Later cooking will soften them more. Drain the
noodles thoroughly in a colander while preparing the other
ingredients. Traditionally, they are left in full length strands, but
you may cut them into shorter lengths (about 8-9 inches, say) to
facilitate easier stir frying. Peel and devein the shrimps, leaving
the tails intact, OR slice the chicken/pork across the grain into
strips not more than 1/8 inch thick and 1-2 inches long. Mix the fish
sauce, sugar, vinegar, and tomato paste in a bowl. Stir until the
sugar is dissolved.  Set the mixture aside. Slice the scallions, both
white and green parts, diagonally into pieces 1-1/2 inches long. Set
aside. Heat a wok, and add the vegetable oil to the hot wok. Swirl
the oil to coat the surface of the wok.  Add garlic and fry till
golden. Add shrimp and fry till they turn pink, or if chicken/pork is
used, fry till the pink color disappears completely.  Add the noodles
and toss lightly to coat them with oil and to distribute the garlic
and meat. Add the liquid mixed earlier and bring to a boil rapidly,
gently folding the noodle, being careful not to break them.  Reduce
the heat to medium and boil the mixture, folding frequently, until
the noodles have absorbed the liquid. Using a wok scoop, or a stiff
spatula, lift the noodles gently from one side of the wok. Pour a
little oil along the side of the wok, then break one egg and slip it
into the oil.  Break the yolk, and cover the egg with the noodles
immediately. Repeat this on the opposite side of the wok with the
remaining egg. Allow the eggs to cook undisturbed, over moderate
heat, until they are set and almost dry.  Additional oil may be added
if the eggs or the noodles begin to stick to the wok. When the eggs
are set and almost dry, fold them gently but rapidly into the
noodles.  Try not to break the noodles, which will be soft and
fragile at this point. An effective way is to insert the scoop under
the eggs, lift it through, and fold the mixture over. Continue the
lifting and folding motion until the eggs are broken up and well
distributed. Add the bean sprouts and sliced scallions, and toss the
mixture quickly and gently, still avoiding breaking the noodles. Cook
for about 2 minutes, or until the bean sprouts and scallions are
crisp-tender. Place the mixture on a large, warm serving platter.
Sprinkle ground chilies and peanuts over the top, and squeeze lime
juice over that. Alternately, these garnishes may be served on the
side for each diner to add according to tastes. NOTES: 1. Pad Thai is
traditionally served accompanied with fresh vegetables, in particular
whole scallion, a small pile of fresh raw bean sprouts (to be mixed
into the noodles), and if available, a wedge of banana blossom. 2.
For the traditional recipe, omit the shrimps, pork/chicken, and all
references to them. Substitute 1/2 pound very firm tofu and 1/4 pound
dried shrimps. Put the tofu on a triple layers of paper towels, cover
it with another triple layer, put a plate on top of that, and put a
two pound weight (cans of vegetables for an example) on top of the
plate.  Let stand for 20 to 30 minutes to press out the excess water.
Put the dried shrimp in a sieve, rinse them quickly under hot running
water, and set aside to drain.  After the tofu has been pressed,
slice it into strips about 1/4 inch thick, 1/2 inch wide and 1 inch
long. ~--

