Title: PAN-SEARED SALMON W/ ROASTED CUMIN-CORIANDER
Categories: Mexican
Yield: 6 Servings
MMMMM---------------------------SALMON--------------------------------
6    8 oz salmon fillets
-skin intact
1 c  Fresh oregano leaves
-stemmed & finely minced
1 c  Fresh basil leaves
-stemmed & finely minced
1 c  Fresh parsley leaves
-stemmed & finely minced
1/2 c  Olive oil
MMMMM-------------------CUMIN-CORIANDER CREMA------------------------
1 1/2 tb Cumin seed
1 tb Coriander seed
1 c  Plain yogurt
2 tb Heavy cream
1/2    Bunch fresh cilantro
-stemmed and chopped
2    Cloves garlic
Juice of 1 lemon
MMMMM-----------------------CHIPOTLE SALSA----------------------------
1    Egg
1 ts Ground red chile
-preferably Chimayo
1    Chipotle chile in adobo
Juice of 1/2 lemon
1    Clove garlic
1 1/4 c  Olive oil
Chef Jason Aufrichtig created this light treatment for rich salmon.
When purchasing the salmon, ask for fillets not steaks. The chipotle
chile in adobo that is called for in the salsa is a canned product,
sold at Latino groceries. The chiles keep for weeks in the
refrigerator if they are first transferred to a nonreactive
container. They are packed in a red chile sauce, to which vinegar has
been added, and are very piquant. There is no substitution for the
zippy taste they add to sauces and fillings. Rinse and dry each
salmon fillet. It is not necessary to remove the skin from the
fillets. Check for pinbones by running your fingertips over the flesh
side of the fillet. Use pliers or tweezers to remove any bones. In a
small bowl stir together the oregano, basil, and parsley. Pat the
herbs onto the flesh side of each fillet, covering well. Refrigerate
until ready to cook. To prepare the crema, combine the cumin and
coriander seeds in a small, dry saute pan over medium heat. Roast the
seeds, shaking the pan frequently, until the aromas are released,
about 2 minutes. Remove from the heat and let cool. Place the spices
in a spice mill or coffee grinder and grind to pulverize the seeds.
Alternatively, pulverize in a mortar using a pestle. In a small bowl,
combine the ground seeds with all the remaining crema ingredients.
Let sit for 30 minutes so the flavors can develop and blend. Pour
through a fine-mesh strainer into a bowl to remove the cilantro
leaves. You will have about 1 cup. (The crema will keep for up to 1
week in the refrigerator.) To prepare the salsa, place all the
ingredients, except the olive oil, in a food processor fitted with
the metal blade or in a blender. Blend thoroughly. With the motor
running, slowly pour in the olive oil in a thin, steady stream,
continuing to process until a mayonnaiselike sauce is achieved.
Transfer to a bowl, cover, and refrigerate until serving. You will
have about 1 1/4 cups. (The salsa will keep for up to 2 days in the
refrigerator.) About 15 minutes before serving, place a saute' pan
large enough to hold the salmon, with room to spare, over medium
heat. Add the olive oil. When the oil is just smoking, put the
fillets in the pan, herb sides down. Cook 4 to 5 minutes, then turn
and cook on the second side until done, 4 to 5 minutes longer.
Cooking times vary according to taste and the thickness of the
fillet. At Cafe Pasqual's fish is considered done when the middle is
still moist and a bit darker than the surrounding light pink flesh.
To serve, spoon the crema onto individual plates, dividing it equally
among them. Place 1 salmon fillet on each plate, herbed sides up, to
cover half the crema. Drizzle the salsa decoratively onto the fillet
and then onto the visible half of the crema.

~--

