Title: PAN-SIZED LEMON-BLACKBERRY PANCAKES WITH CITR
Categories: Breakfast, Fruits
Yield: 5 Pancakes
1 3/4 c  Milk
1/4 c  Fresh lemon juice
2 1/4 c  Flour
2 ts Baking powder
1/2 ts Baking soda
3 tb Sugar
1/2 ts Salt
1 tb Finely minced lemon zest
2 lg Eggs- separated
1/4 c  Butter- melted
2 c  8oz. frozen blackberries
Individual berries not block
Frozen with no sugar
Partially defrosted but firm
Or fresh blackberries
Citrus Syrup, warmed
Mix together milk and lemon juice in small nonreactive bowl and let
stand 10 minutes. Meanwhile, mix together flour, baking powder,
baking soda, sugar, salt and lemon zest in large nonreactive bowl.
After the 10 minutes, whisk egg yolks into mixture. Add liquid
mixture all at once to flour mixture and stir along with melted
butter until just incorporated. Do not overmix - small lumps will
remain.
In a clean bowl, whip egg whites until stiff but not dry. Fold
half of egg whites into batter to lighten it. Then gently fold in
remaining half. Gently fold in berries.
Preheat 10in nonstick skillet over medium heat, depending upon
stove. When water drops splatter pan is ready. Ladle 1C batter into
pan being sure to get even amount of berries in each pancake and move
berries around to evenly distribute. Pancake should be pan sized.
Turn pancake when puffed and golden brown and multiple bubbles
have appeared. Be sure pancake has had enough time to set before
turning, since larger pancakes take longer to cook through in center.
Cook on the other side until golden and cooked through in center.
Serve immediately with a drizzle of warmed Citrus Syrup.

Citrus Syrup 1C water, 2C sugar, 1/3C fresh lemon juice and 2 Tb
grated lemon zest.

Heat water and sugar in heavy bottom nonreactive saucepan over medium
heat and stir to dissolve sugar. When completely dissolved, increase
heat to high. When syrup comes to a boil, cover pan and start timing
immediately. Boil syrup for about 3 minutes. Uncover and add lemon
juice and zest. Continue boiling, uncovered for about 3 minutes
longer or until syrupy. If syrup is too thick when reaheating thin
with a little water. If too thin boil 1 to 2 minutes to reduce. Makes
1 1/2    Cups.

From Ft. Lauderdale Sun-Sentinel Feb. 6, 1997 Typed for you by Kim
Reese

