Title: PANEER COOKING HINTS
Categories: Indian, Info/tips, Ceideburg 2
Yield: 1 Servings
1    Text Only
Freshly made paneer is delicious and may be eaten immediately, without
further preparation or adornment. However, in most recipes, paneer
must be cooked before it is added to the other ingredients.

Broiling, which is discussed in the story, is the method I prefer
because very little oil is used.

If you don't wish to broil the cheese, here are a few alternatives:

TOASTER OVEN:  Grease a small baking tray with vegetable oil. Place
paneer cubes on the tray and brush with oil. Bake at 400F until
golden brown, about 6 to 8 minutes.  Remove and use in any cooked
paneer recipe.

For a quick paneer curry, place cooked cheese cubes on a heated
serving platter and pour your favorite curry sauce over them. Garnish
with minced cilantro and serve.

BARBECUE GRILL:  Prepare a charcoal fire to the gray-ash stage.
Gently blow away the ash, leaving coals that glow cherry red. Cut
paneer into 2-inch cubes.  Brush skewers and paneer cubes with
vegetable oil. Thread evenly on skewers leaving 1/2-inch space any
cooked paneer recipe.

For, an exotic appetizer, sprinkle grilled paneer cubes with. lemon
juice and ground cumin.  Place on a warmed platter and served
immediately.

SAUTE:  Heat 3 tablespoons oil in a heavy nonstick pan or wok over
medium-high heat.  When oil is hot, add paneer cubes and saute until
light brown, turning once. Carefully transfer to paper towels to
drain. Tent with foil to keep warm until ready to use.  Use in any
recipe calling for cooked paneer.

NOTE:  A nonstick pan is essential; the paneer will break and crumble
in any other pan.

DEEP FRY:  Heat 6 tablespoons of vegetable or canola oil to 350F in a
nonstick wok until hot but not smoking. Gently add Paneer cubes. Do
not crowd. Fry, turning occasionally, until golden brown, about 5
minutes.

Remove with slotted spoon and drain on paper towels. Tent with foil
to keep warm until ready to use.  Use in any recipe calling for
cooked paneer.

From an article by Laxmi Hiremath in the San Francisco Chronicle,
9/1/93.

Posted by Stephen Ceideberg; September 3 1993.

