Title: PARGO RELLENO (STUFFED RED SNAPPER)
Categories: Fish, Cuba, Update
Yield: 4 Servings
5 lb Red snapper
-cleaned and prepared
-for baking, with
-backbone removed
-and head and tail left on
-(or substitute sea bass
-striped bass, or pike )
Juice of 4 limes
2    Cloves garlic, minced
Salt
Black pepper to taste
MMMMM----------------------FOR THE STUFFING---------------------------
4 sl White bread, torn into
-small pieces
1/2 c  Milk
2 tb Spanish olive oil
2 tb Salted butter
1 sm Onion, finely chopped
1/2 sm Green bell pepper,
-seeded and finely chopped
1 sm Tomato, seeded and
-finely chopped
1    Clove garlic, minced
1/2 c  Minced baked ham
3 tb Dry sherry
1 ts Worcestershire sauce
1 tb Finely chopped parsley
Salt
Black pepper to taste
1/2 lb Small raw shrimp,
-shelled and deveined
1    Lobster tail simmered
-in salted water to
-cover over medium heat
-until
-cooked, about 5 minutes,
-and sliced into 4 pieces
Rinse the fish, pat it dry with paper towels, and place it on a
nonreactive platter. Squeeze the lime juice over the skin, and rub
the fish inside and out with garlic, salt, and pepper. Cover and
refrigerate at least 1 hour.
To prepare the stuffing, soak the bread in the milk in a small bowl.
In a medium-size skillet over low heat, heat the oil and butter until
fragrant, then cook the onion, bell pepper, tomato, garlic, and ham,
stirring, until the onion is tender but not brown, 6 to 8 minutes.
Add the sherry, Worcestershire, and parsley, mix thoroughly, remove
from the heat, and allow to cool slightly. Squeeze the bread to
remove the excess milk, stir into the mixture, and add salt and
pepper.
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees. Drain the fish and reserve the
marinade (there will be a small amount). Stuff the fish with the
stuffing mixture, arrange the shrimp and lobster slices on top of the
stuffing, and sew up the pocket with needle and thread or secure with
toothpicks or skewers. Transfer the fish to a shallow baking pan
lined with well-oiled aluminum foil, allowing for enough overlap to
pick up the fish. If the tail does not fit in the pan, wrap it in
foil. Pour the reserved marinade over the fish, drizzle with a bit of
oil, place in the oven, and bake, uncovered, until the fish flakes
easily when pierced with a fork, about 1 hour. For an even crisper
skin, place in a preheated broiler for the last 3 to 4 minutes of
cooking time. Transfer the fish carefully to a serving platter,
remove the thread, toothpicks, or skewers, and serve hot. Makes 4 to
6 servings

