Title: PARISIENNE FRUIT TART
Categories: Desserts
Yield: 6 Servings
1 pk (10 oz) frozen patty shells
Sugar
1 c  Milk
1 c  Heavy cream
1 pk (4 oz) vanilla-flavor soft
-dessert mix
2    Medium-size bananas
2 tb Lemon juice
1/3 c  Apricot preserves
2 c  Seedless green grapes,
-washed (3/4 lb.)
1 cn (8-1/4 oz) sliced pineapple,
-drained.
Family Circle, 9/72.
FROM:

A stunning pastry creation, beautiful to look at, divine to eat and
easy to put together.

Remove patty shells from package.  Thaw at room temperature one half
hour.

Place rounds of pastry, overlapping slightly, lengthwise on a lightly
floured surface. Roll to a 16x4 inch rectangle. (If patties separate,
moisten with a few drops of water.) Place on an ungreased large cookie
sheet; trim edges evenly; prick well with fork; chill 30 minutes.

Reroll trimmings thinly; cut into 1/3-inch wide strips about 4 inches
long; brush with water; press ends together to make rings. Brush
rings with water, then dip in sugar; place on cookie sheet along with
rectangle of pastry. Bake pastry and pastry rings in oven at 400~ for
10 minutes. remove rings t wire rack; reserve for decoration. Bake
pastry rectangle 10 minutes longer, or until golden-brown. Remove to
wire rack; cool.

Combine milk, 1/4 cup of the cream and dessert mix in a small deep
bowl; beat, following label directions. Chill 15 minutes. Peel and
cut bananas into 1/4 inch thick slices. Sprinkle with half the lemon
juice.

Split pastry into two layers.  Place bottom layer on long serving
dish or board; spread with about 2/3 of soft dessert; arrange banana
slices on long side edges; spread with remaining dessert mix. Top
with second pastry layer. Heat apricot preserves with remaining lemon
juice until melted in small saucepan; cool slightly. Brush all over
tart.

Beat remaining cream until stiff in a small bowl. Pope or spread
whipped cream over top of pastry. Arange neat rows of grapes in
cream, starting at outer edges. Cut pineapple slices in half and
place in center. Garnish with reserved pastry rings.

