Title: PASSOVER FORGOTTEN TORTE WITH RASPBERRY SAUCE
Categories: Desserts, Sauces, Passover
Yield: 12 Servings
3/4 c  Egg whites (about 6) at room
-temp
2 ts Lemon juice
3/4 ts Vanilla
1/4 ts Almond extract
1 1/4 c  Sugar
1 c  Whipping cream
2 ts Sugar
1 ts Vanilla
3 c  Red raspberries or one 12 oz
-pkg frozen, thawed
1 tb Sugar
Fresh mint leaves (opt)
Servings: 12 Notes: You can make both the billowy white torte and its
sauce ahead of time. That's convenient for serving during the seder.

DIRECTIONS: Preheat oven to 450-F. Grease the bottom of a 10" tube
pan or a 9" springform pan. Set aside.

For torte, in a mixer bowl, beat egg whites, lemon juice, 3/4 tsp
vanilla and almond extract with an electric mixer on medium speed.
Beat for about 3 to 4 minutes or till soft peaks form (tips curl).

Gradually beat in the 1 1/4 cups sugar, 1 Tbsp at a time, beating on
high speed till stiff peaks form (tips stand straight) and sugar is
almost dissolved (about 10 minutes).

Using a rubber scraper, transfer mixture to prepared pan and smooth
the top. Scrape around the sides and center post (if using a tube
pan), leaving a small trench between the meringue and the pan.

Place in preheated oven. Turn off the oven. Let torte dry in oven
with door closed for at least 8 hours or overnight. If using a tube
pan, loosen edges and center with a sharp knife. Lift out tube. (Or
remove sides of springform pan.) Slide knife under meringue. Invert
onto a serving plate. Cover with plastic wrap and foil; freeze, if
desired.

About 4 to 8 hours before serving, in a small mixer bowl, beat
whipping cream till soft peaks form. Add the 2 tsp sugar and 1 tsp
vanilla; beat till stiff peaks form. Frost the top and sides of the
torte. Cover and chill till serving time.

For raspberry sauce, in a food processor bowl or blender container,
combine the raspberries and 1 Tbsp sugar. Cover; process or blend
till smooth. Strain sauce, if desired.

Source: Midwest Living Magazine, April 1991

From: Sallie Austin

