Title: PASTEL DE CHOCOLATE BLANCO DEL CASTILLO
Categories: Cakes, Desserts, Mexican, Mexico
Yield: 12 Servings
For the batter--------------
10    Egg yolks
1 1/2 c  Sugar
1 1/4 c  Melted butter; still warm
2 c  Pecans; ground
2 c  Raw almonds; skinned and
-ground
1/3 c  Flour
1/4 ts (To 1/2) almond extract
3/4 ts Vanilla extract
10    Egg whites
For the syrup---------------
1 1/2 c  Water
3/4 c  Sugar
3/4 c  Kirsch or rum
For the frosting------------
8    Egg yolks
1 2/3 c  Sugar
2/3 c  Water
2 1/4 c  Butter; room temperature
9 oz White chocolate; grated
1/4 ts Almond extract
1/2 c  Kirsch
For the garnish-------------
11 oz White chocolate; curls
Recipe by: The Taste of Mexico Preheat oven to 350F degrees. Grease
and flour two 9-inch round cake pans.

Prepare the batter:  Beat egg yolks until foamy and lemon colored.
Gradually add sugar, and beat until mixture forms a ribbon when
poured from a spoon.  Add butter, a little at a time, until mixture
form a thick paste. Add pecans and almonds.  Stir.  Fold flour,
almond and vanila extracts into the mixture, being careful not to
overmix. Beat egg whites until they form stiff peaks, and fold into
batter.

Fill cake pans equally with the batter and bake for 45 minutes or
until done.  Remove from oven, cool for 10 minutes, and remove from
pans. Cool completely,  and set on plate(s) with a high rim.

Meanwhile prepare the syrup: Heat the water and sugar in a saucepan,
and boil over medium heat for 20 minutes. Remove from heat and stir
in liqueur. Pour syrup over the cooled cakes, allowing the cakes to
absorb the syrup totally.

Prepare the frosting:  Beat the egg yolks until foamy and
lemon-colored. Set aside.  Heat sugar and water in a saucepan,
stirring until the sugar dissolves. Stop stirring, and heat until the
mixture reaches hard ball stage (260F on a candy thermometer).  Add
sugar to eggs in a slow steady stream, beating constantly with an
electric mixer. Continue beating until mixture is cool.  Gradually
mix in butter and chocolate, alternating. Add almond extract and
kirsch and continue beating until thick and smooth.

Place 1 Tablespoon of frosting on a 12-inch serving plate in order to
stabilize cake layers.  Place one cake layer on plate, and frost. Top
with second layer, and frost top and sides of cake. Swirl frosting
with a spatula.  Spinkle with white chocolate curls.

