Title: PASTA FRITTATA
Categories: Appetizers, Breads, Cheese, Eggs, Pasta
Yield: 4 Servings
4    Egg
2 c  Cooked Spaghetti -- cut 1 in
Lengths
1/4 ts Black Pepper
1/4 c  Parmesan Cheese -- grated
2 tb Olive Oil
1/2 c  Mozzarella Cheese -- diced
2 lg Roma Tomatoes -- diced
2    Green Onions -- chopped
2 oz Prosciutto -- sliced
2 tb Italian Parsley -- chopped
1. In a large mixing bowl, beat the eggs. Mix in the spaghetti,
pepper and grated Parmesan.

2. In a medium non-stick skillet, heat the oil over medium flame. Add
half of the pasta mixture, spreading it out to the edges like a
pancake. Spread the diced mozzarella in a single layer on top, then
layer on the tomatoes, green onions and prosciutto. Finish by
spreading the remaining pasta on top and pouring any egg left in the
bowl over it. Cook on low until the bottom is browned and crisp,
about 5 minutes.

3. When the bottom has set and is golden brown, flip the frittata
over, using either a large spatula or sliding it onto a plate and
then inverting it back into the pan. Cook, uncovered, another 5
minutes, or until the bottom is crisp and golden.

4. To serve, slide the frittata out of the pan. Cut into 4 wedges and
sprinkle with chopped parsley. Serve warm or at room temperature.
NOTES:

The Italian omelette, known as a frittata, varies from the traditional
French omelette in 3 ways. First, the frittata fillings are beaten in
with the eggs, instead of being folded inside. Second, the frittata
may be finished by either flipping over the whole omelette in the
pan, or running it under the broiler. Third, as described above,
whereas the French omelette is folded, the Italian frittata is cooked
in one, round piece. Both types have their attributes, and preference
is merely a matter of taste.

I am, however, partial to this particular frittata recipe. Pasta,
which can be leftover from a previous meal, is cooked in the eggs
with layers of tomatoes, cheese, seasonings and prosciutto. This is a
wonderfully simple yet absolutely delectable omelette, and it can
even be made in advance. The recipe makes 4 small to medium-size
portions, enough for a light breakfast or first course. If desired,
add 2 more eggs and increase the other ingredients accordingly for a
heartier, more substantial meal.

:
Recipe By

