Title: PASTA ROLLS
Categories: Appetizers, Cheese/eggs, Main dish, Entertain
Yield: 1 Batch
1 lb Ricotta Cheese (skim milk is
-good)
4 oz Mozzarella, grated
4 oz Romano, grated
1 1/2 c  Parmesan, grated
3    Eggs, whole or whites only
2 lb Pasta, homemade & fresh is
-best. In STRIPS!!!!!!!
1 qt Chicken broth, VERY strong!
Salt & Pepper to taste.
Parmesan Cheese for topping
Tomatoe sauce, spaghetti
-sauce in a pinch. Should be
-smooth.
Yards of string
Yards of CHEESECLOTH !!!!
Make the cheese filling. Simply mix all the cheeses and then add the
BEATEN eggs or egg whites. Make sure the harder cheeses are grated.
They mix better that way. This is a relatively bland mixture as is
but don't worry. Make the pasta. Use your favorite recipe. Green
pasta is really neat for the effect. God knows the taste is great
too. Cut the pasta into ABOUT 6" wide stips. The length is according
to what it's for. If your serving this for dinner make the strips
about 18" long. For appetizers or side dishes then only make them 6"
to 10" long. Now simply lay out a piece of pasta. Smear filling on
it. Like frosting a cake. EXCEPT leave about «" free of filliing on
the EDGES. The begining END can be covered. The last few inches of
the strip should be left bare too. Now simply roll it up! Try to keep
it as stright as possible, but don't stroke out if it's a little off.
Keep repeating until you have one or two rolls per person. Set aside
until all of them are made. Cut a piece of cheesecloth long enough to
fully wrap around a roll with several inches of overlap. Repeat until
you have all the cloth pieces cut. Simply wrap each pasta roll in one
piece of cheesecloth. Tie the cloth closed. MAKE SURE IT'S LOOSE. The
pasta will swell quite a bit. Make your sauce and heat. Smooth sauce
I think works for a nicer visual effect. Keep it hot, but on the
side. Now POACH the pasta rolls in your chicken broth. Until they're
done, about 15 minutes should take care of it. But make sure it's
really only a simmer. If the broth is boiling it can cause the cheese
to push out of the pasta and/or the pasta to simply break-up (it's
not pretty!) Here's the fun part. Take the pasta rolls out of the
broth. Cut the string and unwrap each one. Slice them like sausages,
into rounds, except about 2" thick. Place several slices onto each
plate, cut side up, according to appetite. Pour sauce onto plate.
Swirl on plate. I do not like covering the swirling of the green
pasta and the white of the cheese with the sauce. I think it shows up
better with the sauce as a background color. Also having to "dip" the
pices of the roll in the sauce makes for a nice taste. Sprinkle a
little parmesan cheese and/or chopped parsley. This is a really good
recipe. You might try using the filling from Tony's Manicotti with
four cheeses in place of my bland one.

