Title: PASTA FRITTATA WITH WATERCRESS & SAUSAGE
Categories: Eggs, Italian
Yield: 4 Servings
1 1/2 c  Russet Rose White potatoes
1/4    " dice
1 qt Boiling water
4 oz Eggless linguini -- see
Note
Olive oil cooking spray
4 oz Turkey-Pork Sausage -- note
2    Scallions with stalk --
Chopped
1 c  Egg substitute -- or
4 md Eggs -- whipped
1/2 ts Virgin olive oil -- light
Freshly ground pepper -- to
Taste
2 tb Chopped cilantro
2 oz Watercress sprigs -- note
1/4 c  Grated Parmesan cheese
1 c  Fresh fruit
Ingredient notes: *Pasta: We used PastaZesta (r) eggless Linguini.
This brand is mildly flavored. We like the garlic and parsley.
Optional: shorten the pasta by breaking it in two. *Sausage: Low-fat
option: buy a spicy pork sausage, that pairs poultry with the pork,
or uses all poultry. (e.g.,Jimmy Dean, Turkey-Store, etc.)
*Watercress: Cut off and discard the toughest stems leaving sprigs.
Wash in a pan of cold water. Rinse well. Drain in collander. Coarsely
chop watercress leaves and stems separately *Eggs: add the 1/2
teaspoon of oilive oil to the eggs. Beat the eggs with whisk or
rotary beater to lighten with air. Bring the water to a boil; add the
potato dice and cook 5 to 7 minutes, till al dente. Meanwhile, add
the fast-cooking pasta to the boiling potatoes at the appropriate
time. Drain, keep warm. Meanwhile, position oven rack so that pan is
about 4 to 6 inches below element. Preheat the broiler. Meanwhile:
start browning the sausage in an oven/broiler proof saute pan or
casserole (1-1/2 qt capacity). Apply spray to prevent sticking and
drying. Crumble the sausage as it cooks as finely as possible. Add
the chopped onion to the pan, and saute till warmed, about 2 minutes
maximum. Add the chopped cilantro and watercress STEMS. Toss for 1-2
minutes. Add drained potato and pasta. Toss well. Pour in whipped
eggs. Reduce heat to medium-low; cover, and cook to set all but the
very top. Place under the broiler, remove immediately when it has
turned a golden brown, 2 to 4 minutes.  Garnish with Parmesan cheese
and watercress LEAVES. Serve with fresh fruit.

: Pat Hanneman, Riverside, 1996
Recipe By

