Title: PASTA WITH MEATBALLS
Categories: Pasta, Ceideburg 2
Yield: 4 Servings
2 c  Peeled fresh plum tomatoes
-or canned Italian plum
-tomatoes.
4 tb Butter
2 sm Onions, chopped fine
1    Clove garlic, chopped fine
4 sl Bacon, cooked and crumbled
Salt and black pepper
1/2 c  Marsala
1/2 ts Dried oregano
1/2 lb Vermicelli
1 c  Fresh grated Parmesan or
-Romano cheese
MMMMM-------------------------MEATBALLS------------------------------
1/2 lb Ground chuck
2 sl French bread, moistened
-with 1/2 cup milk and
-squeezed dry
1 tb Minced parsley
2    Eggs, lightly beaten
1/4 c  Grated Parmesan cheese
Salt and ground pepper
3 tb Vegetable oil
Here's the recipe I made the other night with the nice pasta sauce.
The meatballs were mediocre, mainly because I'd never made meatballs
before that I can remember. The sauce, on the other hand, was very
tasty. For the pasta I used rigatoni++the first type of pasta I made
with the new machine.

Serves 4 to 6.

1.  Put the tomatoes trough a food mill to puree pulp and remove
seeds.

2.  In a large skillet or medium saucepan, melt half the butter and
cook the onions9on until soft.  Add the garlic, tomato puree, and
crumbled bacon.  Then add salt and pepper to taste and boil this
sauce hard for five minutes.

3.  Add the marsala and oregano, and cook for another
5    minutes. Set aside.

4.  Put all the meatball ingredients except the vegetable oil in a
bowl, and mix with your hands. Shape the mixture into 12 balls, and
in the skillet brown them on all sides in the vegetable oil. Do not
overcook, they will cook further in the sauce.  Add the meatballs to
the tomato sauce and keep warm.  (You can brown the meatballs ahead
of time and add them to the sauce when you are ready.)

5.  Cook the pasta until al dente, drain well and return to the pot in
which it cooked.  Add remaining butter and toss well. Add several
large spoonfuls of the tomato sauce and toss well again. Transfer
pasta to a large serving platter or bowl.  Pour sauce and meatballs
overall, serve and pass the cheese.

Wine:  A chianti classico

From "The Joy of Pasta", Joe Famularo and Louise Imperiale. Baron's
Educational Series, Inc., N.Y. 1983. ISBN 0-8120-5510-1.

Posted by Stephen Ceideberg; May 2 1991.

