Title: PASTA PINWHEEL ROLLS W/CREAMY TOMATO SAUCE **
Categories: Pasta, Main dish, Italian
Yield: 8 Servings
2 ea Pasta ; fresh 9 x 12 (appro
6 oz Prosciuttos; thinly slices
1 lb Spinach; leaves only, steam
4 oz Ricotta cheese
2 oz Mozzarella cheese,
4 tb Reggiano parmesan cheese; g
1 x  Salt
1 x  Pepper
1 x  Nutmeg
1 x  Creamy tomato sauce
35 oz Plum tomato; drained
3 tb Sweet butter
2 ea Med Onion; finely chopped
1 c  Dry white wine
2 c  Chicken stock
1 c  Heavy cream
Bring a huge pot of salted water to a boil. Drop pasta in and cook for
about 2 minutes. The cooking time is going to differ due to the
varying thicknesses of pasta sheets. Test yours several times to
allow it to cook--AL DENTE! Remove sheets from water and rinse
off--handle carefully--then place on sheets of plastic wrap. Blot top
of sheet w/paper towel and cover the pasta w/ prosciuttos in 1 layer.
Spread the spinach/cheese mixture over the prosciuttos and roll up
with the 6" side. Use the plastic wrap to assist you in rolling it
tightly and then wrap the roll in the plastic wrap and refrigerate
until you are ready to use. This sauce is made by combining liquids &
reducing them in different stages. It is delicious and worth the
time. It's also very easy to do. Melt butter in large skillet and
saute onions until they begin to brown (don't let them burn) Add wine
to skillet, bring mixture to a boil and reduce liquid to about 1/4
cup. Add chicken stock and return mixture to a boil. Reduce this
mixture until there is about 1/2 cup. Squeeze the drained tomatoes
through your fingers to break them up and add them to the reduced
liquids in the skillet, bring to a boil and reduce to low heat and
simmer for about 30 minutes, watching carefully and stirring
frequently. Add heavy cream, continue cooking slowly for 10 minutes.
Taste, adjust seasoning with salt and pepper. ASSEMBLY: Remove pasta
rolls from plastic wrap and---> put in to skillet with the sauce.
REMEMBER: The pasta is completely cooked. You only want to heat it
thoroughly in the sauce. When it is heated, cut off each end of the
roll to make it even.
Then cut roll into 3 equal pcs. To serve, place pool of sauce on
bottom of plate & put 2 or 3 pcs of pasta roll on each plate, with
the pinwheel side up.
Sprinkle w/grated cheese if you like it &enjoy
SUSAN AARONSON   (PSTT79C)

