Title: PAUL NEWMAN'S CHOCOLATE CAKE
Categories: Cakes
Yield: 12 Servings
1 pk Dark choc cake mix
Or
1    Recipe 9 x 13 chocolate
Cake( I used this as I dont
Care for mixes )
Or yellow or butter cake
1    14 oz can sweetened
Condensed milk ( not
Evaporated )
( I use about 1/2 can )
1    16 0z jar butterscotch ice
Cream topping
1    8 0z cool whip
I use 12 oz whipped topping
3    Heath  candy bars ( crushed
In the wrappers )
1.4 oz each ( English toffee
And milk chocolate )
Chocolate jimmies(sprinkles)
Comment: I have no idea why the cake is called a Paul Newman Chocolate
cake.My family knows it as a heath bar cake. Call it what you wish.
It's a splendid cake. I use a favorite chocolate cake scratch recipe.
My daughter uses the mixes.  Prepare cake for 9 x 13 pan and bake and
completely cool. If using mix follow pkg directions. Or prepare your
favorite scratch yellow, butter or chocolate cake recipe. I place the
batter into 2, 9 or 10 inch round cake pans since I vary the recipe
for a layer cake and not a
9 x  13 pan kind.

When completely cool: Using large blunt end of a chop stick, poke
holes all over cake and pour the condensed milk over cake ( 1 can was
just to much for the layer cake and 1/2 can was sufficient) . But try
the entire jar if you wish for the 9 x 13 pan. Then spread over the
caramel topping ( used whole jar ) and spread evely with the Cool
Whip. For the layers, use whipped topping to frost entire cake and
not in between layers. Sprinkle top of cake with the crushed candy (
helps to chill bars first then crush ). I sprinkled top of each layer
with the crushed candy bars plus reserved some extra to sprinkle over
the whipped topping. Chill cake for several hours ( I prepared mine a
day ahead ) before slicing. This is an extremely moist cake from all
that milk and caramel. I also used some chocolate jimmies to decorate
the cake. If you love chocolate this is probably one of the most
delicious cakes to try. It also came out extremely delicious with the
yellow or butter cake recipes. But the chocolate is extra special.

Note: with layer cake:  some of the caramel will ooze out of the
layers as you spread it on layers and this is just fine.It adds to
the attractiveness of the cake. Work quickly to frost and cover the
entire cake with the whipped topping and throw on jimmies and crushed
heath bars all over the cake including sides. Then immediately chill
to set the caramel etc. The cake tastes best when allowed to chill
over night.

