Title: PEAR PECAN NAPOLEON
Categories: New, Text, Import
Pears:
Yield: 6 Servings  :
6    pears, peeled, cored, and
sliced -- 1/4"
thick
:
:
2/3 c  granulated sugar
1 TB freshly squeezed lemon
juice
pn salt
:
:
1 ts ground cinnamon
Pecan Paste
:
2 c  (8 ounces) pecans --
toasted
:
2 TB granulated sugar
2 TB water
1 1/2 ts finely chopped orange zest
pn salt
:
1 lb Puff Pastry

Pears: Place the pears, sugar, lemon juice, salt, and cinnamon in a
large saute pan. Cook over medium-high heat, stirring occasionally,
until the pears are soft and most of the liquid has evaporated, 10 to

15    minutes. Let cool.

Pecan Paste: In a food processor, finely grind the pecans and
granulated sugar. Place the pecan mixture in a small bowl and add the
water, orange zest, and salt. Mix just until combined.

Puff Pastry: On a lightly floured work surface, roll the piece of puff
pastry into a 16-inch square. Cut into 4 rectangles, each 4 inches
wide by 16 inches long. With a fork, pierce small holes all over the
pastry. Place the rectangles on two baking sheets. Freeze or
refrigerate until firm.

Preheat the oven to 375 degrees.

Place a second baking sheet or an inverted wire mesh rack on top of
the puff pastry to prevent it from rising as it bakes. Bake until
golden brown, 10-15 minutes. Cool to room temperature.

Assembly: Spread 1/3 of the pecan paste on one of the rectangles of
puff pastry. Carefully layer 1/3 of the pears over the pecan paste.
Layer two more pieces of pastry with the remaining pecan paste and
pears in the same manner. Using a wide metal spatula, carefully stack
these three pieces of pastry.

In a small bowl mix together the sugar and the cinnamon. Dust the
fourth piece of puff pastry with the cinnamon sugar and place it on
top of the stacked layers of pastry.

Using a serrated knife and a gentle sawing motion, trim the edges of
the napoleon so that they are even. In the same manner, cut the
napoleon into 8 pieces and serve a portion on each of 8 plates.

: COOKING LIVE SHOW #CL8743
Recipe By

From: "Jon And Angele Freeman" <jfreemadate: Fri, 25 Oct 1996 09:05:52
~0500

