Title: PEKING DUCK
Categories: Chinese, Poultry, Loo
Yield: 1 Duck  Someone asked about Peking Duck. I've got two recipes in my
collection - one is too simple, the other too long to post.

So I'll just describe what to do, very briefly. If you want a good
detailed recipe, check out Ken Hom's Chinese Technique (Simon &
Schuster, 1981).

1. Loosen the skin from the duck by massaging it, pulling the skin
away where possible.

2. Blanch the duck for a couple of minutes.

3. Hang it up to dry for 4 hours, then baste it with sherry or with
honey-water 1/2 and 1/2 mixture. Hang it up again to dry for 4 hours.

the other says
15 min at 450
55 min at 350
20 min at 450
4. Roast duck - one recipe says
30 min. at 375
1 hour at 250
30 min at 400

The rationale for this I'm not sure of, but all recipes claim that
changing the oven temperature makes a vast difference.

5. To serve - slice off skin and cut it into 1"x2" pieces. Cut meat
into similar-sized pieces. Provide 2" scallion lengths (green and
white part), hoisin sauce (canned or bottled), pancakes (below). Each
diner rolls a bit of meat, a bit of skin, and a scallion length into
a pancake that has been spread with about a teaspoon of hoisin sauce
and eats the mess with fingers.

Pancakes (adapted from Grace Zia Chu, Pleasures of Chinese Cooking):

2 c flour, 1 c boiling water, 2 T dark sesame oil

Add water to flour in a bowl and work with a wooden spoon into a
dough. Knead 10 min. and let rest for 10 min.

Form into a long roll about 2" in diameter. Cut into 1/2" pieces and
flatten to 1/4". Brush a little oil over a piece of dough and lay
another piece over it. Roll out with rolling pin, slowly and from the
center out, until the piece is 4" or more in diameter. Proceed until
all dough is rolled out.

Heat ungreased griddle over low flame and add dough circle. When it
bubbles slightly, turn it over and heat the other side. While it is
still warm, pull apart the two halves and fold at the center with the
greased side inside. Repeat with remaining dough circles.

Steam for 10 min. before using as above.

From:    Michael Loo

