Title: PENNE SAUCED WITH LEEKS & LEMON
Categories: Entree
5    trimmed medium leeks -- (4
to 6)
Yield: 4 Servings
:
1 TB lemon juice
6 qt water -- (5 to 6)
2 c  water -- (1 to 2)
2 TB salt
1 ts lemon zest -- minced
1 TB chopped flat-leaf parsley
1/4 c  extra-virgin olive oil
Sea salt
Freshly ground black pepper
:
:
16 oz penne or other short pasta
1/2 c  grated Parmesan cheese

This is a basic recipe that demonstrate the cook's desire to use as
much of the nutritients and flavors that leech to the water when
cooking vegetables and pasta.

Clean the leeks: Remove roots and any tough, bruised outer leek
leaves. Split each leek in half lengthwise and rinse carefully to
eliminate all dirt between leaves.

Relish: Slice some leek, a small section of the white part, into the
thinnest possible half-rings, stop when you make 1/4 cup. Toss this
measure with the lemon juice and set aside. Cook to puree: Bring the
5 to 6 quarts water to a rolling boil; add salt and cook remaining
leeks (cut into chunks that fit in the pot) for 6 to 8 minutes until
soft, and totally tender. Remove leeks from pot with slotted spoon,
refresh in cold water; drain and squeeze lightly to remove excess
water. Reserve leek cooking water.

Puree leeks in food processor with lemon zest, parsley, extra virgin
olive oil, 1/2 cup leek cooking water, salt and pepper. Transfer
sauce to 3-quart pot.

Cook pasta: Add 1 to 2 cups fresh water to leek cooking water and
return to rolling boil. Add pasta and cook until it al dente (about
three-quarters of the recommended cooking time).

Drain, *reserving 2 cups cooking water.*

Add pasta, 1/2 cup pasta water and (lemon) marinated leek rings,
drained, to leek puree in pot and cook over highest heat for 3 to 5
minutes until pasta is almost cooked and saucecoats pasta. Add more
pasta water, 1/4 cup at a time if sauce gets too dry. Sauce should
surround pasta but be slightly liquid.  We still have cheese to add
and the cheese will thicken the sauce.

Add grated Parrnesan cheese, heat for an additional minute to melt
cheese, and serve immediately.

1996 by Faith Willinger: Red, White, and Greens: The Italian Way with
Vegetables (Harper-Collins). Willinger has lived in Florence, Italy
for more than 20 years. Reprinted 3 Oc 96in the Riverside
Press-Enterprise (McRecipe via PATh)

: Faith Willinger, Red, White and Greens
Recipe By

Date: Sun, 20 Oct 1996 21:35:17
~0700 (

