Title: PEPPER & CORN SOUP WITH BASIL
Categories: Soups
Yield: 4 Servings
Stephen Ceideburg
5 c  Chicken stock
1 tb Unsalted butter
1 tb Light olive oil
1 lg Leek *
Salt and cayenne pepper
7    Ears of corn, shaved, about
-7 cups
3    Medium-size red bell
-peppers, 1/2 cup diced and
-about 2 cups
Coarsely chopped
4    Garlic cloves, finely
-chopped
2 tb Chopped fresh basil
* white part only, cut in half lengthwise, thinly sliced, and washed,
about 2 cups

Adapted from Annie Somerville's "Fields of Greens. " The flavor of
sweet peppers is essential combine red and yellow peppers if you
like, but don't use green peppers, because their strong flavor works
against the sweetness, of the corn.

Warm the stock over low heat,

Heat the butter and 1/2 tablespoon olive oil in a soup pot. Add the
leek, 1/2 teaspoon salt and a few pinches of cayenne. Saute over
medium heat until the leek is heated through, about 2 minutes. Cover
the pot and steam the leek for 5 to 6 minutes, until tender.

Set aside 1 cup corn, along with the diced peppers, to be sauteed
separately and added to the soup later, Add the remaining corn and the
chopped peppers to the leek along with the garlic, 1/4 teaspoon salt,
and a pinch of cayenne. Saute for 2 to 3 minutes.

Add 2 cups stock, cover, and cook over medium heat for 25 to 30
minutes, until the corn and peppers are tender. Add I cup stock,
puree in a blender or food processor, then pass the puree through a
food mill. Return the puree to the pot and cook over low heat.

Heat 1/2 tablespoon olive oil in a saute pan. Add the remaining corn,
the diced peppers, 1/2 teaspoon salt and a pinch of cayenne; saute
until tender, 5 to 7 minutes. Add to the puree along with about 2
cups stock, to reach the desired consistency. Season to taste with
salt and cayenne and cook over low heat for 10 to 15 minutes. Add the
basil just before serving.

PER CUP: 180 calories, 7 g protein, 32 g carbohydrate, 5 g fat (1 g
saturated), 4 mg cholesterol, 27 mg sodium, 7 g fiber.

Sibella Kraus writing in the San Francisco Chronicle, 10/27/93.

Posted by Stephen Ceideburg

