Title: PEPPERED SEAFOOD SAUSAGE
Categories: Appetizers, Seafood, Meats
Yield: 1 Servings
1 lb Fish Fillets
Such As Sole, Flounder,
Salmon Or Whitefish
All One Kind Or Mixed
1/2 lb Shrimp And/Or Scallops,
Raw, Cleaned
1/2 c  Packed Cilantro Leaves
4 lg Egg Whites
1 tb Fresh Lemon Juice
2 ts Ground Cumin
2 ts Salt
1/4 ts Ground Black Pepper
5    Feet Hog Casing
In A Continuous Length,
Soaked In Cold Water For
A Few Minutes *
*Note: If hog casing is unavailable, seven 5- by 10-inch pieces of
kitchen parchment may be used instead. See end of recipe for related
info. ~------------------------------------------------------
~----------------- Cut the fish into long strips; the shrimp and
scallops can remain whole. Put the seafood, jalapenos and cilantro
through a coarse blade of a meat grinder.  Combine the ground seafood
with the egg whites, lemon juice, cumin, salt and pepper in a large
bowl. Rinse the hog casing in cold water by letting the water run
from the tap directly through it. (The casing should not have any
holes.)  Gather the casing up onto the sauce stuffing funnel
attachment on your meat grinder. Put the seafood mixture back in the
grinder and begin to grind it through. When it begins to emerge from
the funnel, tie the end of the casing in a knot, leaving 3 inches of
it unfilled for expansion room. Grind the mixture out, taking care
not to overstuff the length of sausage; it should be about 1 inch
wide. If necessary, squeeze it gently with your hands to make this
width as you work. Continue with the entire length; you will have
about 4 feet of sausage. Remove the funnel and use your finger to
press out the last remaining seafood mixture. Leave 3 inches for
expansion and tie the end in a knot. Shape to make it even. Coil it
into a spiral and set it aside. Bring 1 inch of water to a boil in a
large heavy skillet with a lid. Reduce the heat so that the water
barely quivers. Prick the sausage with a sharp knife pint at 3-inch
intervals.  Place it in the barely moving water, cover the pan and
cook for 10 minutes. Turn off the heat and let the sausage rest for
10 minutes before serving. NOTE: If you use kitchen parchment, butter
the paper and place 1/2 cup of the mixture on each piece. Roll it up,
twist the ends and tie them securely with string. Poach as directed.
Source: Chef Michael Roberts of Trumps in Los Angeles American Bistro
0-8092-5047-0

