Title: PEPPERMINT STICK COOKIES
Categories: Cookies and, Holidays, Sent to lis
Yield: 45 Servings
1 c  Stick Margarine, Softened
1 1/2 c  Confectioner's Sugar
1    Egg
1 ts Vanilla
1 ts Peppermint Extract
2 1/2 c  All-Purpose Flour
1 ts Baking Soda
1 ts Cream Of Tartar
1 ts Red Food Coloring
1/4 ts Yellow Food Coloring
Confectioners Sugar For
-Sprinkling
In large mixer bowl mix margarine, sugar, egg, vanilla, and peppermint
extract. In a small bowl combine the flour, baking soda and cream of
tartar. Blrnd into creamed mixture on low speed, scraping sides of
bowl, until a soft dough is formed.

Divide dough in half, removing one half to a small bowl. To the
remaining hald add the red and yellow food colorings. Blend in to
color all of that portion of the dough completely.

Preheat oven to 375°f.

Working first with the plain uncolored dough, or having another
person or child work with half of the dough, roll pieces of dough on
counter or other flat surface to form "worm" or pencil shapes or
various lengths. Begining in one corner and alternating the colors,
place them diagonally in a jelly roll pan. The stripes should be
close enough that when they are pressed down lightly they will touch.
The dough is very forgiving and short "worms" can bw pinced together
to form long ones in the pan. When the pan is full, press lightly to
push strips together. Bake about 15 minutes at 375° until lightly
golden brown.

Cut immediately into sticks aproximately 1"x3". (depends on the pan!)
Sprinkle with confectioner's sugar and store air tight.

Cookies may be "crisped" in a warm oven if needed to freshen them.
Sprinkle with fresh sugar after reheating.

This dough may also be formed into cane shapes. Make pencil sized
"worms" and twist together. Bend one end for cane shape. Bake and
dust with confectioners sugar. Store as bar cookies.

NOTES : The original version of this recipe  came from a Gold Medal
Flour insert from the early 1970's.  It is a great "get the kids
involved" recipe.  Dave and Juli both began helping for the "worms"
for them at a very young age. It remains a favorite cookie for us
all. I adapted the original recipe in flavoring and technique. The
"worm" technique makes a more attractive cookie and makes it a fun
project for the kids.

Posted to MC-Recipe Digest V1 #

Recipe by: Gold Medal Flour and Dianne Ward

From: Dianne Larson Ward <dianne@paccom.com>

Date: Wed, 11 Dec 1996 10:21:42 +0000

