Title: PERFECT SAFFRON PASTA
Categories: Pasta, Italy, Herb/spices
Yield: 4 Servings
PERFECT SAFFRON PASTA
Makes about 2/3 pound, 4 to 6 servings.

The rich flavor and aroma of this pasta are wonderful with fish and
shellfish in a broth, wine, or cream sauce, or with sauteed chicken.
It stands up well to sauces that have the strong flavor of olives and
acid ingredients such as wine and tomatoes. Try Saffron Pasta with
sweet peppers, garlic, and onions or leeks. Here, we shape it into
bow ties, called farfalle (''butterflies") in Italian.

2 teaspoons saffron threads, firmly packed 1 tablespoon hot water 2
cups unbleached flour 2 extra-large eggs

In a small bowl, combine the saffron and the watcr and let stand 10
minutes. If you are making the pasta by hand, add the saffron and
water to the eggs after you have beaten them lightly with a fork. If
you are making the pasta in a food processor, add the saffron water
to the work bowl aftcr you have added the eggs. Proceed according to
the directions for Egg Pasta (please see the recipe "Perfect Pasta").

After rolling the dough through the next-to-last setting on the pasta
machine, cut it into 1-by-2-inch rectangles with a fluted ravioli
cutter or knife. With your thumb and forefinger, pinch the centers of
the rectangles together to make bow ties and set them on tea towels
or a lightly floured surface.

FETA, CHIVES & PISTACHIOS W/ SAFFRON PASTA

Serves 4 to 6.

Bright and beautiful, golden bow ties are dressed with chopped chives
and pistachios. Serve them as a side dish or a light but satisfying
main course.

Water 6 ounces feta cheese, crumbled 1/3 cup roasted, shelled, and
peeled pistachios, coarsely chopped 1/3 cup chopped Chives 3
tablespoons currants, softened in hot water and drained 2 tablespoons
extra-virgin olive oil Salt 1 batch Saffron Pasta Freshly ground
black pepper

In a large pot, bring several guarts of water to a boil. Meanwhile,
place the cheese, pistachios, chives, currants, and olive oil in a
large saute pan.

When the water comes to a boil, salt it well, add the pasta, and cook
it al dente. Drain it, reserving about 1/2 cup of the cooking water.
Add the drained pasta to the saute pan along with enough of the
reservcd cooking water to make a sauce that just coats the noodles.
Season with salt and pepper and toss well. If desired, you may
drizzle the top lightly with olive oil. Serve hot.

Source:  "Pasta & Herbs: A Natural Noodle Connection" by Carolyn
Dille & Susan Belsinger ** The Herb Companion -- April/May 1996 **

Scanned and formatted for you by  The WEE Scot  -- paul macGregor
From: Paul Macgregor
Date: 05-01-96

