Title: PERFECT PIE CRUST
Categories: Pies
Yield: 1 Servings
4 3/4 dl All-purpose flour
1/2 ts Salt
170 g  Unsalted butter; chilled
40 g  Margarine or veg. shortening
1/2 dl Ice water (or as needed)
*Note: If using vegetable shortening, it should be chilled.

In a large bowl, sift the flour and salt.  Cut the chilled butter and
margarine into 1 tablespoon bits and add to the flour. With a pastry
cutter, work flour and shortening together until mixture resembles
coarse meal.  Add the ice water little by little, pressing the pastry
together into a ball.  Wrap and chill for at least 1 hour.

(It is important to work the pastry as little as possible. Don't
overhandle.  A secret to light, flaky pastry is to keep the mixture
cool, add as little water as possible, and mix only as much as
necessary.)

If pastry has been chilled for a long time, let it sit at room
temperature for at least 15 minutes before rolling.

Lightly flour a pastry board, marble counter, or kitchen counter.
Divide the pastry in half.  Pat each piece of pastry into a flat
round. Lightly flour rolling pin. Roll pastry in one direction only,
turning pastry continually to prevent it from sticking to the surface.

Using pie plate as a guide, measure rolled-out pastry ~ it should be
slightly larger than the pie plate and 1/8-inch (2 mm) thick. Fold
rolled pastry circle in half so you can lift it more easily. Unfold,
gently fitting the pastry into the pie plate, allowing pastry to hang
evenly over the edges.  Do not trim the pastry yet.

Fill the pie with filling.  The roll out the second crust in the same
manner as for bottom.  Fold circle in half and with a sharp, pointed
knife cut little vents in a decorative pattern. Place folded pastry
on one half the pie.  Unfold, pressing top and bottom pastry
together. Trim edges with scissors, leaving a 1/2-inch (1 cm)
overhang. Fold bottom pastry overhang over top and press firmly to
seal.  Crimp rim, using fingers or the tines of a fork.

Source: "Entertaining" by Martha Stewart - ISBN: 0-517-544199

