Title: PERSIAN QUINCE STEW (KHORESH-E BEH)
Categories: Stews, Lamb/mutton, Persian
Yield: 6 Servings
2    Onion; finely sliced
1/3 c  Oil or butter
1 lb Stewing meat (lamb or beef);
-cut in 1 inch cubes
1 ts Salt
1/4 ts Pepper
1/2 ts Ground cinnamon
3 c  ;Water
2 lg Quinces
3 tb Sugar
1/4 c  Vinegar or lemon juice
1/4 ts Ground saffron; dissolved in
1 tb ;Water, hot
1/3 c  Yellow split peas
MMMMM---------------------------CHELO--------------------------------
3 c  Basmati rice
8 c  ;Water
2 tb Salt
3/4 c  Butter; melted
1/2 ts Saffron; dissolved in
2 tb ;Water, hot
2 tb Yogurt (opt)
In large pot, brown onions in 3 Tbsp. of oil or butter. Add meat and
brown. Add salt, pepper, and cinnamon. Add water, cover and simmer
over low heat for 1 hr, stirring occasionally.

Wash, but don't peel quinces.  Use apple corer to remove seeds. Slice
as for apple pie.  In skillet, saute in 2 Tbsp. oil or butter and set
aside.

To the meat, add sugar, vinegar or lemon juice, saffron, split peas,
and quince.  Cover and simmer 35 minutes. Check to see that meat and
fruit are cooked. Taste and correct seasoning. Transfer to deep
casserole dish and keep in warm oven until ready to serve. Serve hot
with chelo (recipe below.)

(Note: I am giving the detailed instructions for chelo. I don't use
the yogurt and I drizzle the remaining saffron over *all* the rice. I
also serve the tah dig(crust) with the rest of the rice.)

Chelo:  Wash rice 5 times in cold water.  Bring water and salt to
boil in a large non-stick pan.  Add washed and drained rice. Boil 6
minutes, stirring gently twice to loosen grains that may have stuck
to bottom. Drain rice in colander and rinse in lukewarm water.

In same pot, heat half the butter, 2 Tbsp. hot water, a drop of
dissolved saffron, and yogurt.  Taking one spatula at a time, place
rice gently in pot mounding in the shape of a pyramid.

Dissolve remaining butter in 2 Tbsp. hot water and pour over rice.
Place clean dishtowel over pot and cover firmly with lid to prevent
steam from escaping. Cook 10 minutes over medium heat and 50 minutes
over low heat. Remove from heat.

Allow to cool 5 minutes on a damp surface without removing lid. Put 2
Tbsp. of the rice in with remaining saffron and set aside for
garnish. Gently remove rice from pot without disturbing crust.
Sprinkle saffron flavored rice over top and serve. Detach crust and
serve separately.

>From _Food of Life_.
posted by: Sarah Henderson <sehender@reed.edu>
from the rec.food.recipes archives
Stephanie da Silva (arielle@taronga.com), archivist Submitted
By SAM WARING <SAM.WARING@382-91-12.IMA.INFOMAIL.COM> On WED, 01 NOV
1995 134731 GMT

