Title: PESCESPADA ALLE BRACE (WOOD FIRE GRILLED SWOR
Categories: Seafood
Yield: 6 Servings
3    Fennel bulbs, cleaned & trim
2 c  Chicken stock; (homemade is
Salt and pepper; to taste
1 lb Green beans; stems removed
2 lb Swordfish; * see note
2 tb Extra virgin olive oil
-----for the sauce (about 1
2 lg Garlic cloves; peel & choppe
1/2 c  Italian parsley; chopped fin
2 tb Fresh oregano; chopped fine
1 ts Dried oregano
Juice from 2 lemons
1/3 c  Hot water
2/3 c  Extra virgin olive oil
1/2 ts Salt
1/4 ts Fresh ground black pepper
Recipe by: Tess Mercer <tess@NANOTHINC.COM> * cut into
6    ounce slices about
3/4    inch thick

Put the fennel into a casserole.  Splash on the chicken stock and
sprinkle with salt and pepper to taste. Bake the fennel, covered, in
a 375 F oven for about 1 hour, basting often. It should be tender but
not mush. Drain and set aside.  Use the pan liquid for soups or other
dishes.

Boil the Blue Lake beans in lightly salted water for about 4 to 5
minutes. Drain and set aside.

Rub some olive oil on the slices of swordfish.  Grill them about 4
mnutes o each side, and add some salt and peppr to taste. You can
broil or barbacue the fish if you dont' have a wood fired grill.

To assemble the sauce, put the garlic, parsley, oregano, lemon juice
nad water into a crok and mix well with a spoon. Add the olive oil,
salt and pepper and mix again. (It is best to make thjis sauce
several hours ahead of using it; then mix again energetically.) You
can store it, covered, in the refrigirator for up to a week. Be sure
to bring to room temperature or even a little warmer before use.

Heat the cooked, drained fennel in a 375 oven for about 20 minutes.
Heat the beans in a skillet with a few drops of olive oil and some
lemon juice, and season with salt and pepper. When the fish is done
put it on a heated dish and garnish with vegetables. Spoon on some
sauce or pass it at the table.

Serves 6.

(all recipes (c) Carlo Middione - Vivande Ristorante, as printed in SF
Examiner Epicure, 4/26/95)

