Title: PETS DE SOEURS (SISTER'S [I.E.~ NUN'S] FARTS)
Categories: Pastry, French
Yield: 40 Fritters
6 tb Butter
2 ts Sugar
1 pn Salt
1 ts Grated lemon rind
4    Eggs
1 c  Flour
1 ts Vanilla
1 ts Rum, dark; opt
Oil; for deep-frying
Sugar, confectioners
Combine the butter, sugar, salt, and lemon rind with 1 cup water in a
saucepan and bring the mixture slowly to a boil. When the butter has
completely melted, remove the pan from the heat. While the pan is
heating, break each of the eggs into a separate custard cup or
similar small dish and have these ready. When the pan is removed from
the heat, add all the flour at once, stirring, first carefully, then,
when the flour is absorbed, vigorously with a wooden spoon.

When you have a compact, thick paste, turn the heat to medium high and
return the pan to it.  Cook this mixture for 3 to 4 minutes, stirring
constantly and scraping the sides and bottom, until the batter clings
together in a solid mass, leaving the bottom and sides of the pan
clean, and takes on a glossy look.  Turn off the heat and remove the
pan from the stove.

Beat in the vanilla, and the rum if used, giving the batter a chance
to cool a little.  When it has, make a well in its center, pour in 1
egg, and beat this into the mass. When it is incorporated, beat in
another egg and proceed until all the eggs are used.  The resulting
pastry should be flexible and soft, firm enough to hold its shape and
not at all runny. Set it aside and let it rest for about 45 minutes,
or for the duration of supper.

When ready to make the fritters, fill a deep skillet or deep-fat fryer
two-thirds full of oil and heat to 360 deg.F (not too hot, or the
exteriors will brown before the center is cooked). If you are using a
deep-fat fryer, do not use the basket, but a slotted spoon or wire
mesh skimmer instead. Drop the batter into the hot oil a teaspoonful
at a time, dipping the spoon into the oil after each scoop.  Don't
overcrowd the pan, since they puff up to about four times their
original size. Nudge them to roll over, so that they color evenly on
all sides. When golden brown, drain on paper towels and sprinkle with
confectioners' sugar. Serve hot. Pet de Breton. This recipe makes 1
large fart. Make the batter with the same ingredients the same way as
explained above, including the 45- minute rest. Preheat oven to 375
deg.F.  Pour the batter into a large greased pan (a 10-inch or so
heavy cast-iron frying pan works well for this) and set in the oven.
Bake for an hour.  Remove, sprinkle with confectioners' sugar, tear
apart, and eat as soon as it's cool enough to handle.

-- from Simple Cooking, by John Thorne

