Title: PHEASANT WITH CHAMPAGNE CABBAGE VI (ASSEMBLY)
Categories: Game, Masterchefs, New york
Yield: 4 Servings
Pheasants **
Pheasant Stock **
Mousseline Stuffing **
Pheasant Sauce **
Champagne Cabbage **
6 tb Butter, clarified **
** See recipes for Clarified Butter, Pheasant with Champagne
Cabbage I (Stock), Pheasant with Champagne Cabbage II (Stuffing),
Pheasant with Champagne Cabbage III (Sauce), Pheasant with Champagne
Cabbage IV (Pheasant), and Pheasant with Champagne Cabbage V
(Cabbage).

To Assemble:

Place the leg-thigh portions of the Pheasants, skin side down and
short ends toward yourself between 2 sheets of plastic wrap; flatten
gently with a mallet or side of a cleaver.

Spread about 1/3 cup of stuffing on each portion and fold meat
over to form a 1/2-inch border on each of the 2 long sides.

Starting with a short side, roll the stuffing and meat into a
neat cylinder.  Use kitchen twine to tie compactly, wrapping twine
around once lengthwise and 3 times crosswise.  Chill, covered, until
firm (at least 30 minutes.)

Preheat oven to 450 F.

Heat 6 tablespoons of clarified butter in a large oven-proof
skillet.

Salt and pepper the stuffed leg packages and saute, shaking pan
occasionally, until golden on all sides (about 4 minutes.) Place
skillet in oven and roast for 4 minutes.

Return skillet to the top of stove over medium-high heat.  Add
breast halves to the pan, skin side up, and sprinkle with salt and
pepper. Saute for 2 minutes, shaking pan occasionally.

Turn breasts skin side down, sprinkle with salt and pepper and
return to the oven until everything is tender (about 7 minutes.)

Transfer meat to work surface.  Cut leg-thigh portions crosswise
into 1/2-inch-thick slices.  Thinly slice breasts lengthwise on a
diagonal.

To Serve:

Mound about 1/2 cup of cabbage in the center of each of 4 warmed
serving plates.  Place leg-thigh slices around bottom of each plate,
overlapping slightly.  Place breast slices in a fan pattern at top of
each plate, overlapping slightly.  Spoon some sauce around the meat
and cabbage; serve the rest of the sauce separately.

Source:  New York's Master Chefs, Bon Appetit Magazine
:  Written by Richard Sax, Photographs by Nancy McFarland
:  The Knapp Press, Los Angeles, 1985

Chef:   Andy Kisler, Vienna 79 Restaurant, New York

