Title: PHEASANT AMERIND
Categories: Game
Yield: 2 Servings
2 lb Pheasant hen, cleaned
-(up to 2 1/2 lb)
1    Onion, quartered
1    Bay leaf
6    Peppercorns
1 sm Carrot, sliced
1    Celery stalk, sliced
1 ts Salt
4 tb Butter
1 pn Thyme, powdered
1/4 ts Rosemary, dried
-and crumbled
1/4 c  Mushrooms, chopped
2 tb Flour
2 tb Black walnut meats,
-finely chopped
COOK BIRDS:  Split pheasant down the breastbone (or have your butcher
do this).  Rinse the halves, place in a deep pot and barely cover
with water. Add bay leaf, onion, carrot, celery, salt and peppercorns.

Bring to rolling boil, then turn down heat and simmer for
approximately 30 minutes, or until tender.  Remove foam and scum as
it forms. Remove bird(s) from broth, reserving the broth.

Using a heavy skillet, saute the halves in about 2 T of the butter
until golden.  Place birds into small roasting pan or casserole with
just enough water to cover the bottom of the pan. Sprinkle with thyme
and rosemary. Bake, lightly covered with foil, for 30-40 minutes at
350 degrees F.

MAKE GRAVY:  While the birds are in the oven, strain the broth and
boil rapidly down to about 2 cups.

Brown the mushrooms using the same skillet in which you browned the
pheasant. Remove the mushrooms and keep them warm.

Melt the remaining 2 T  of butter in the skillet.  Add the flour,
stirring up the browning from the pan. Cook over moderately high heat
until golden brown. Blend in the broth using a wire whisk.

Add mushrooms and continue cooking approximately 1-2 minutes. Turn
down heat, cover and keep warm until pheasant is roasted.

When the pheasants are cooked, remove them from the oven and scrape
the herbs from the skin. After placing the pheasant halves on a warm
platter (or leaving them in the casserole), pour the gravy over the
pheasant. Garnish with the chopped nutmeats and serve. This dish is
particularly good with wild rice.

NOTES:

*  Pheasant in the North American tradition -- This recipe is adapted
from the exceptionally good, controlled-circulation Recipes Only
Magazine. The original dish was created by Mary Richard for use in
her Teepee Restaurant, in Winnipeg. I found some of the ingredients
hard to locate in a hurry and used what I had available with good
results. You can substitute rock Cornish hen, guinea fowl, or chicken
for the pheasant and hazelnuts, filberts or walnuts for the black
walnuts.

: Difficulty:  easy once you have the all the ingredients ready.
: Time:  40 minutes preparation, 80 minutes cooking.
: Precision:  measure the spices.

: G.  Roderick Singleton
: Syntronics Manufacturing Inc., Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
utzoo!syntron!gerry
: gerry@syntron.uucp

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

