Title: PHYLLO-WRAPPED CHICKEN WITH LEEK & PORTOBEL
Categories: Poultry, Main dish
Yield: 4 Servings
SAUCE
3 tb Vegetable oil
1 1/2 lb Chicken wings cut at joints
1 lg Onion sliced
2 lg Fresh thyme sprigs
2 sm Fresh rosemary sprigs
1 1/2 c  Dry white wine
4 c  Chicken stock
CHICKEN
4 tb Butter
4 c  Leeks, thinly sliced
White/pale green parts only
4    3in. diameter Portabello
Mushrooms,stemmed cut in 1/2
12    Sheets phyllo - thawed
1/2 c  Butter - melted
4    6oz.chicken breasts/skinless
6 tb Chilled butter cut in pieces
SAUCE:Heat vegetable oil in heavy large saucepan over high heat. Add
chicken wings and brown well, turning occasionally, about 10 minutes.
Add onions, thyme and rosemary and saute 5 minutes. Add wine and boil
5 minutes. Add chicken stock and boil until liquid is reduced to 1
cup, about 20 minutes. Strain sauce through sieve set over small
saucepan, pressing on solids with back of spoon. Can be prepared 1
day ahead. Cover and refrigerate.

FOR CHICKEN: Melt 2 TBS butter in heavy large skillet over med-low
heat. Add sliced leeks and saute until tender, about 8 minutes.
Season to taste with salt and pepper. Transfer to medium bowl and
cool. Melt 2 TBS in same skillet over medium heat. Add mushrooms and
saute until beginning to brown, about 3 minutes. Cool completely.
Place 1 pastry sheet on work surface. Brush with melted butter; top
with second pastry sheet; brush with butter. Repeat with third sheet
of pastry. Place 1 chicken breast 5 inches in from short end of
pastry. Top chicken with 1/4 of leeks and 2 mushroom halves. Fold in
sides. Roll up, forming rectangular packet. Transfer to baking sheet
vegetable side up. Brush packet all over with melted butter. Repeat
with remaining ingredients forming 4 packets total. Can be prepared 6
hours in advance. Cover and refrigerate.
Preheat oven to 350F. Bake chicken until pastry is pale golden and
chicken is cooked through., about 30 minutes. Meanwhile, bring sauce
to simmer. Remove from heat and whisk in 6 tbsps chilled butter, just
until melted. Season to taste with salt and pepper.
Serving suggestion: Cut in half cut sides out serve on top your
favorite glazed carrot recipe and spoon sauce around. From Bon
Appetit Dec. 1996

