Title: PICKLED BABY ARTICHOKES - MARTHA STEWART LIVI
Categories: Pantry, Soup/stews, Pickles
Yield: 4 Pints
1/2 c  Lemon juice
5 1/2 lb Baby artichokes
4 c  White vinegar
7 tb Kosher salt
8    Cloves garlic, thickly
-sliced
1    Lemon, thinly sliced, seeds
-removed
1 tb Black peppercorns
1 tb White peppercorns
20    Sprigs fresh thyme
1. In a large bowl, combine lemon juice and 2 C of water. Remove tough
outer leaves from artichokes and cut across tops about 1 inch from
heart. Trim stems to remove dark tough skin. Cut away any bruises or
bad spots. Place artichokes in lemon water.

2. Wash 4 one-pint canning jars, lids, and screw bands in hot, soapy
water and rinse well. Place jars upright on a wire rack in the bottom
of a large pot. Fill pot with hot water until jars are submerged by 1
to 2 inches, and bring to a boil. Boil for 15 minutes. Turn off heat;
leave jars in water. Sterilize lids according to manufacturer's
instructions.

3. Combine vinegar, 1 1/2 C water, salt, garlic, and sliced lemon in a
large pot and bring to a boil. Drain artichokes, add to pot, and
simmer for
1    minute.

4. Using stainless-steel tongs, remove jars from water and place on a
layer of clean towels. Divide peppercorns evenly among jars. Add 5
sprigs thyme to each jar. Using a clean slotted spoon, remove
artichokes, garlic, and lemon slices from pot and pack tightly into
jars, pressing them down with the back of a clean spoon. Leave 1/4
inch of space beneath the rim of the jar. Pour hot liquid over
artichokes, covering them by 1/4 inch and leaving 1/2 inch of space
at the top of each jar. Slide a clean plastic chopstick or wooden
skewer along the side of the jar to release any air bubbles. Wipe
mouth of jar with a clean, damp cloth. Place hot lid on jar; screw on
band firmly without forcing.

5. Place a wire rack in the bottom of a large pot and fill partway
with hot water. Using a jar lifter, place the jars on the rack. Add
enough hot water to cover by 2 inches, and bring to a boil. Boil for
10 minutes. Remove jars from water bath with jar lifter; let stand on
clean dish towels for 24 hours. Check cool jars for the slight
indentation in the lids that indicates a vacuum seal. Jars that do
not seal properly or that leak during processing should be stored in
the refrigerator and pickles consumed within a week. Allow sealed
pickles to mellow in a cool, dry place for a few days before serving.
Store opened jars in the refrigerator.

Martha Stewart Living/October/94 Scanned & edited by Di Pahl & <gg>

