Title: PICKLED WATERMELON RIND - MARTHA STEWART LIVI
Categories: Pantry, Soup/stews, Pickles
Yield: 7 Pints
1 lg Watermelon (about 25 lb)
2 tb Kosher salt
3 c  Sugar
2 c  Cider vinegar
1/2    Inch length of fresh
-ginger, peeled
1/2 ts Ground mace
2 sm Cinnamon sticks
1    Lemon, thinly sliced
1. Cut watermelon in half; remove flesh and seeds. Using a metal
spoon, scrape rind to remove all traces of pink. Cut rind crosswise
into 1-inch-wide strips. Using a vegetable peeler or a small sharp
knife, peel the green skin from the rind. Cut away any bruises or bad
spots. Cut rind into 2-inch lengths.

2. In a large nonreactive bowl, combine salt and 1 gallon cold water.
Add rind; let soak in brine overnight. Rinse rind 2 or 3 times in
fresh cold water and drain well.

3. Combine sugar and vinegar in a large nonreactive pot and heat until
sugar is dissolved. Fold an 8-by-16-inch piece of cheesecloth in half
to make a square; rinse and squeeze dry. Place, ginger, spices and
lemon on the cheesecloth. Tie cloth dosed with one end of a 12-inch
piece of cotton string. Tie a loop in the other end and slip it over
the handle of a wooden spoon. Suspend spice bag in the vinegar syrup
by placing the spoon across the top of the pot. Add the rind and
return to a boil. Reduce heat, simmer for 30 minutes, and let sit
overnight. Discard spice bag.

4. Wash 7 one-pint canning jars, lids, and screw bands with hot, soapy
water and rinse well. Place jars upright on wire rack in the bottom
of a large pot. Fill pot with hot water until jars are submerged by 1
to 2 inches, and bring to a boil. Boil for 15 minutes. Turn off heat,
leaving jars in water. Sterilize lids according to manufacturers
instructions.

5. Using stainless-steel tongs, remove jars from water and place on a
layer of clean towels. With a slotted spoon, transfer rind to jars,
leaving 3/4 inch of space beneath the rim. Pour hot syrup over rind,
covering it by 1/4 inch and leaving 1/2 inch of space beneath the
rim. Slide a clean plastic chopstick or wooden skewer along inside of
each jar to release any air bubbles. Wipe mouth of jar with a clean,
damp cloth. Place hot lid on jar, turn screw band tightly without
forcing.

6. Place a wire rack in the bottom of a large pot and fill part way
with hot water. Using a jar lifter, place jars upright on rack. Add
enough hot water to cover by 2 inches, and bring to a boil. Boil for
10 minutes. Remove jars from water bath; let stand on clean dish
towels for 24 hours. Check cool jars for the slight indentation in
the lids that indicates a vacuum seal. Jars that do not seal properly
or that leak during processing should be stored in the refrigerator
and pickles con- sumed within a week. Allow sealed pickles to mellow
in a cool, dry place for 2 to 3 weeks. Store opened jars in the
refrigerator.

Martha Stewart Living/October/94 Scanned & edited by Di Pahl & <gg>

