Title: PICKLED ARTICHOKES
Categories: Condiments, Ceideburg 2
Yield: 2 Servings
2 c  Fresh lemon juice
4 c  Water
36    To 40 medium artichokes
3    Lemons, halved
4 c  Distilled white vinegar
1/2 ts Salt
2    Garlic cloves
4    Bay leaves
1/2 ts Dried basil
1 ts Dried oregano
2    To 4 small dried red chile
-peppers (optional)
2 c  Olive oil
These pickles are worth every bit of the time it takes to prepare
them. They're one of the best tasting and most beautiful preserves on
my pantry shelf.  The pale, creamy yellow leaves around the artichoke
heart glisten in the oil-herb vinegar brine, and sometimes a faint
hint of purple on the chokes is evident, too. Their rustic taste
recalls the simple antipasti of Italy's country trattorias.

Combine the lemon juice and water in a saucepan large enough to
eventually hold all the trimmed artichokes.

Prepare the artichokes, one at a time.  Cut off and discard card the
stem, then halve the artichoke from tip to stem end. Immediately rub
the cut surface with a lemon half to prevent discoloring. Scoop out
the furry choke, then gently rub the exposed surface with lemon. Cut
off the outer layers of leaves, so the only leaves remaining are the
tender, pale yellow ones.  Older or larger artichokes will have more
tough outer leaves so more will have be removed than on younger or
smaller artichokes. Immediately drop trimmed artichoke into the lemon
water.

Repeat process until all artichokes have been trimmed.

Cook the artichokes in the lemon water for 3 to 5 minutes, depending
upon size of artichoke hearts.  If mixed sizes are used, remove the
small ones after 3 minutes. Drain artichoke hearts and pack them
tightly into 2 clean, dry, pint canning jars with sealable lids. Add
cup of vinegar and 1/4 teaspoon of salt to each jar. Cover with the
lids and let stand overnight.

The next day, drain off and discard the vinegar.  Add 1 cup of
vinegar to each jar.  Let jars stand 4 to 6 hours. Drain off and
discard vinegar. Add 1 garlic clove, 2 bay leaves, 1/4 teaspoon
basil, 1/2 teaspoon oregano and 1 or 2 dried chiles (if desired) to
each jar. Fill to within 1/2 inch of the rims with olive oil. Cover
with the lids.

At this point, the artichokes will keep up to 1 month stored in the
refrigerator. alternately, they may be processed for 30 minutes in a
canning kettle using the hot water process. The sealed, canned
artichoke hearts keep up to 1 year.

Makes 2 pints.

PER ARTICHOKE HALF:  35 calories, 1 g protein, 6 g carbohydrates, 1 g
fat (0 g saturated), 0 mg cholesterol, 47 mg sodium, 3 g fiber.

From the San Francisco Chronicle, 4/21/93.

Posted by Stephen Ceideberg; May 11 1993.

