Title: PICKLED JALAPENOS-CH
Categories: Jams, Jellies
Yield: 1 Servings
Fresh chiles
(jalapenos or serranos)
Carrots
Cauliflower
Onions
Garlic -- (1/4 head per
Jar)
Spices in each jar:
1    Whole bay leaf -- up to 2
Leaves
2    Cloves garlic
2    Whole peppercorns -- up to
1    Little piece  cinnamon
1/4 ts Mustard seed
Salt
White vinegar
(1/2 gallon for 8 1-pint
Jars)
In response to the question how to preserve Jalapenos (or any other
chile). The following is the recipe I obtained originally from my
cooking class in high school in Mexico, but I made some modifications
because the chiles were allways too cooked. As to how tro dry chiles,
that is a question that can be answered only by experimenting, since
as a mexican I am use to find any kind of chiles any time in the
market very cheap, and I would think most of the mexicans wouldn't
know how to dry them.... Any way, I have a very good recipe for
chipotles (dry jalapenos) once I am able to understand how this
system works... Please note that I don't give the exact amounts
because they would vary depending on what you want to get, but keep
in mind that the important thing always would be the spices.

Slice the carrots in rounds. Brake the coliflower in small pieces and
cut the onions in chunks. I cut garlics in such a way that the teeth?
are in halfs. I like to use entire chiles but I always punch them
with a toothpick, so the flavor comes out. If you want you can slice
them in longitudinal cuts, which is the traditional way. I heat a
little bit of oil (like 3 or 4 tablespoons) and place all the
vegetables at the same time and mix everything until all the
vegetables are covered with a thin layer of oil. Then I fill the jars
with the vegetables (the jars by then already have the spices and
salt). Apart, I heat the vinegar and when it is boiling I pour it
over the vegetables.

I close the jars (following the traditional preserving instructions)
and let them boil closed for 15 minutes. I let stand the pickles for
at least a week.  Before coming to the states I preserved in this way
like 5 jars with only fresh  "piquin chiles" and I have been using
them for the last year, by adding here the vegetables, this works
wonderful, because we have had very flavorful picles for long time. I
hope you enjoy this recipe.

:
Recipe By

Date:
From:

