Title: PICKLED SALMON ("EMEL STYLE" - PAT & JOE)
Categories: Fish
Yield: 12 Servings
Ingredients for Brine:
2 c  Cider vinegar
1/2 c  Water
3/4 c  Sugar
3 tb Pickling spice
SALTING: Cut salmon pieces approx. 4" wide. Put salmon pieces in a
crock or suitable container skin side down, layering salt and fish.
Be sure to use plenty of salt. Use a weighted dish on top of the fish
to keep the salmon submerged in the brine; thirty days minimum for
curing. Keep watch for oil scum on surface - remove scum with paper
towels. Occasionally a mold will occur. If this happens it will be
necessary to rebrine. Dump out all of the old brine and clean off
fish. Rebrine by using at least a quart of rock salt to a gallon of
water. (Don't spare the salt. Be sure the brine covers all of the
fish.) During the above operation the fish can be kept at outside
temperature ~ cool place - not necessary to refrigerate. The fish in
this state can be kept for several months. FRESHENING: Put the fish
in a container of fresh cold water. Rinse thoroughly two or three
times a day for 2 days, or until salty taste is right for you. Keep
refrigerated. Skin the fish and cut into the size pieces you prefer
for eating. Remove the bones; fish is now ready for the pickling
process. PICKLING: Make enough brine to cover fish, using above
ratios. Bring brine ingredients to a boil until sugar is dissolved.
Set aside to cool. Layer salmon and sliced onions in a container. (If
you like pickled onions use plenty of them!) Pour cold brine over
fish until covered completely. Let stand for at least a couple of
days and then fish can be eaten. Note: You can put the fish in a
smaller container, not necessary to refrigerate. We use 1 gallon
containers when we pour pickling mixture on the fish. Then after a
couple of weeks we put the fish into pint jars. NOTES
: MC formatted 12/10/96 by rooby@shell.masterpiece.com

Posted to MC-Recipe Digest V1 #

Recipe by: Jane Morton

From: "Rooby" <rooby@shell.masterpiece.com>

Date: Tue, 10 Dec 1996 15:24:32 +0000

