Title: PINE APPLE INN & BAKEHOUSE'S BURGUNDY SHALLOT
Categories: Sauces, Meats
Yield: 4 Servings
4    To 6 med shallots
1    Clove garlic
Olive oil
2 tb Balsamic Vinegar
2 c  Good quality Burgundy Wine
4    Sprigs fresh Thyme
3 c  Reduced brown veal stock
Salt
Pepper
1 ts Or 2 unsalted butter
- optional
1. Peel and finely slice shallots. Peel garlic.

2. Saute shallots and garlic in a little hot oil over medium heat for
2 to
3    minutes.

3. Deglaze pan with balsamic vinegar and reduce until vinegar almost
disappears. Add wine and thyme. Bring to boil then simmer slowly until
shallots have absorbed all the wine.

4. Add veal stock, bring to boil and simmer slowly until reduced to a
third of its original volume. With a small ladle skim off any scum
that rises to the top. Remove from heat, discard garlic and thyme.

5. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Serve with grilled beef or
veal. Sauce can be enriched by whisking in 1 or 2 teaspoons ( to
taste ) of unsalted butter. Makes 2 cups sauce or 4 to 6 servings.
This dish was published by Toronto Star Starweek, Mary McGrath's
Chef's Showcase in the issue of March 12-19, 1994

The recipe was requested by Al Malinauskas of Thornhill, Ontario who
writes:

"My wife and I celebrated our 25th wedding anniversary last summer
at the Pine Apple Inn & Bakehouse. (149 Main St., Unionville, Ontario
(416) 940-6639) "The grilled Alberta steak was done to perfection and
the Burgundy Shallot Sauce with it was simply the best that I have
ever enjoyed"

Credit for the cooking goes to chef David Watt who apprenticed at
The Ritz Hotel in London, England, and then came home to work at
Sansoucci in the Sutton Place Hotel before opening The Pine Apple Inn
in Unionville in 1991 with James Horner and Allan Bell. They describe
the style of cooking here as "a mixture of old and new".

Typed into Meal Master format by Eric Decker March 19, 1994.

Editor's note: For those of you who wonder what an Aberta steak is, I
encourage you to substutite a Texas steak if you can't get the Alberta
version [ real thing
:-) ]. Both are mighty good snackin'

ps. Happy 25th Anniversary Al, I hope you and your sweetheart have
another 25 or 50 together.

Posted by Eric to Fido Cooking Echo March 19, 1994 Internet Email:
eric.decker@canrem.com or Fido NetMail 1:229/15

