Title: PINEAPPLE-APRICOT EMPANADITAS
Categories: Pies, Desserts, Fruits/nuts, Cheese, Beverages
Yield: 24 Servings
MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
1 lg Ripe pineapple
1/2 c  Good-quality apricot
-preserves
3 tb Sugar
3 tb Triple Sec
1/4 c  Fine dry bread crumbs,
(commerically prepared)
MMMMM---------------------------PASTRY--------------------------------
2 c  Unbleached a-p flour
1/2 ts Salt
8 oz Unsalted butter, slightly
-softened
6 oz Cream cheese, slightly soft
MMMMM---------------------------GLAZE--------------------------------
1    Egg, beated with 1T water
3 tb Sugar
With a serrated knife, remove the top from the pineapple. Quarter the
pineapple vertically and trim away the tough core from each quarter.
Cut the pineapple flesh away from the rind. Chop the pineapple; there
should be about 2 3/4 cups.  In a medium saucepan, combine the
pineapple, apricot jam, sugar, and Triple Sec. Set over medium heat
and bring to a simmer. Cook, uncovered, stirring often, until thick,
about 40 minutes. Cool to room temperature, and in a food processor
partially puree the pineapple mixture.  Some texture should remain.
Stir in the bread crumbs. (Filling can be prepared up to 2 days
ahead. Cover and refrigerate.)

In the work bowl of a food processor, combine the flour and salt and
pulse briefly to blend.  Add the butter and cream cheese and process
until a soft dough forms. Turn the dough out onto a lightly floured
work surface and divide it in half.  Gather each half into a ball,
kneading briefly if necessary until smooth, and flatten each ball
into a 5-inch disk. Wrap the disks of dough separately in plastic and
refrigerate for at least 5 hours. (The dough can be prepared up to
2    days ahead.)

Let the discs of dough stand at room temperature until softened
slightly. Dust one disc of dough with flour and on a well-floured
surface roll it out to about 1/8-inch thick. Using a 3 1/2-inch
circular cutter, form the dough into about 12 rounds.  Lay the rounds
in a single layer on a plate or cookie sheet, wrap in plastic, and
return them to the refrigerator. Repeat with remaining dough.  (The
rounds of dough can be prepared 1 day ahead.)

Position racks in the upper and lower thirds of the oven and preheat
the oven to 375F.  Lightly butter two large baking sheet pans.

Let the rounds of cream cheese pastry soften at room temperature just
until flexible.  Making one at a time, spread a heaping teaspoon of
pineapple filling across the center of each round, leaving a border.
Fold the round in half, then pinch the edges of the empanadita to
seal and crimp it decoratively.  Repeat with the remaining pastry
rounds and filling, transferring the completed empanaditas to the
baking sheets and spacing them well apart.  Brush each empanadita
with the egg wash and sprinkle it lightly with sugar. Bake the
emapanaditas, changing the position of the sheets on the racks from
top to bottom and from front to back at the halfway point, until they
are puffed, crisp, and golden, about 20 minutes. Cool them on a rack
before serving.  (The empanaditas can be prepared up to 1 day ahead
and stored, airtight, at room temperature.)

