Title: PINTO BEAN SOUP WITH FRESH SALSA
Categories: Cantina, Soup
Yield: 6 Servings    1 1/2 c  pinto beans -- dried
7 c  water
1/4 c  vegetable oil
2    yellow onions -- diced
1 ts salt
1/2 ts freshly ground pepper
4    cloves garlic -- minced
6 c  vegetable broth
chicken broth -- or
water
**SALSA
:
:
:
3    plum tomatoes, diced --
(ripe Romas)
:
1/2 sm red (Spanish) onion --
finely diced
:
1/4 c  fresh cilantro -- coarsely
chopped
:
1    limes -- juiced
Salt and pepper
sour cream or Crema
:
:

Sort through the beans and discard any misshapen beans or stones.
Rinse well. Place the beans in a saucepan and add the water. Bring to
a boil, reduce the heat to medium-low, cover and simmer until the
smallest bean is cooked through and creamy inside, about 1 1/2 hours.
Remove from the heat and set aside.

In a large saucepan over medium heat, warm the vegetable oil. Add the
onions, salt and pepper and saute until the onions are lightly
browned, about 10 minutes. Add the garlic and saute for 1-2 minutes
longer. Add the beans and their liquid and the stock or water. Bring
to a boil, reduce the heat to medium and simmer uncovered, stirring
occasionally, until the beans start to break apart, 20-30 minutes.
Remove the beans from the heat and let cool slightly.

Meanwhile, make the salsa: In a bowl, stir together the tomatoes,
onion, cilantro, lime juice and salt and pepper to taste. Cover and
refrigerate until you are ready to serve.

Working in batches, transfer the bean mixture to a blender and puree
until smooth. Transfer the puree to a clean saucepan and reheat over
low heat, stirring frequently, until hot.(If not serving immediately,
keep warm over very low heat, stirring often.)

Ladle the soup into warmed shallow bowls and top each serving with a
spoonful of salsa and a dollop of crema or sour cream.

Susan Feniger and Mary Sue Milliken (1996). Cantina: Best of Casual
Mexican Cooking. Sunset Books, CA. Part of a series: Casual Cuisines
of the World. [Mastercook 16 Oc 96: Submitted by PATh: 445 cals/14 g
fat]

: Feniger and Milliken: Cantina (1996)
Recipe By

Date: Thu, 17 Oct 1996 09:29:47
~0700 (

