Title: PIROZHKI
Categories: Russian, Sandwiches
Yield: 1 Servings
---For dough---
2 tb To 3 dried yeast
1 pn Sugar
5 tb Water; warm
2 1/2 oz Butter; softened
1 lb Flour
1 pn Salt
1/2 c  Milk
2    Eggs
1    Filling*
Dough: Dissolve the yeast and a pinch of sugar in the warm water.
Sprinkle in a teaspoon of flour and leave for 15 minutes in a warm
place.
Pour into a bowl, mix in the softened butter, sifted flour and salt,
the milk and the beaten eggs, and knead into a smooth dough. Leave to
rise until it has doubled in volume. Knead again and roll out.

To assemble:  Cut (the dough) out in small circles in which you can
enclose the filling in a semi-circle or canoe shape. Choose from any
or all of the fillings given (below), and seal the edges carefully
with a little milk. Either brush with egg and bake in a moderate to
hot oven for about 10 minutes until golden brown, or fry them
uncoated in deep fat.

Meat filling: Lightly fry 1 onion in 1 tbsp. oil or butter, add 1/2
pound minced beef or veal or chicken and cook for 5 minutes. Combine
in a bowl with the seasoning and herbs and allow to cool.

Mushroom filling: Chop 3/4-1 lb fresh mushrooms into quarters and cook
gently in butter with finely chopped herbs for 15 minutes. Season,
add a little chopped onion, chopped hard-boiled egg or rice or both,
and enough sour cream to make a fairly moist filling.

Fish filling: Any white fish, though preferably firm, is suitable
here. You will need 1/2 to 3/4 pounds, weighed after boning. If the
fish is cooked specially for the purpose, bring it to the boil once
in a court-bouillon, remove and bone it.
Combine with 2-3 oz rice or cooked unsweetened semolina or sago, add
seasoning and chopped herbs, especially dill, to taste, and chopped
hard- boiled egg. A little anchovy essence or jellied fish stock will
add greatly to the flavour of these pirozhki and keep the filling
moist.

Note: " Pirozhki often come out rather dry because of the small
quantity of filling which cannot...be moistened by the last-minute
addition of stock. ...A (good) solution, I think, is to use stock
either naturally or artificially jellified with gelatin. Add 2
teaspoons, finely chopped, to the mixture when it is absolutely cold
from the refrigerator, bind with egg and use straight away....These
tiny pasties (are) usually eaten with a clear meat, chicken or
mushroom broth....
Source: The Food and Cooking of Russia, by Lesley Chamberlain
Formatted by: Nancy Filbert, March 1995

