Title: PISNI HOLUBTS (MEATLESS CABBAGE ROLLS)
Categories: Vegetables, Christmas, Russian
Yield: 10 Servings
2 c  Rice; Uncooked
4 c  Water
1 md Head White Cabbage; 4 to 5
-Lbs, Without Bruised Leaves
2 lg Onions; Use 3 If You Like
-Onions, Chopped
1/4 lb Butter; 1 Stick
1 c  Mushroom Mix
1 tb Salt
1 ts Black Pepper; To Taste
16 oz Canned Tomatoes
1    Bouillon Cube; OR
1 tb Maggi Sauce
;Tomato Juice Or Water As
-Needed
Combine the rice and water in a medium saucepan. Bring to a boil, stir
gently, cover and cook for about 20 minutes. Cool in a large bowl.
Core the cabbage and place it in a large pot or Dutch oven half
filled with water, cover, and bring to a boil.  Cook about 2 minutes.
As the outer leaves become translucent and soft, pry off and remove
with a wooden spoon. Continue until the head is about 5 inches in
diameter, remove and save for Cabbage Filling, (Recipe will be
included in the next bunch). Trim the leaves by paring of the thick
part of the rib. In a large skillet, saute the chopped onions in
melted butter until lightly cooked. Add the onions and mushroom mix
to the rice, stir gently but do NOT mash. Add salt and pepper to
taste. Line the bottom of a baking dish with the outer cabage leaves.
Place a large spoonful of the filling at the stem end of each leaf,
fold over the sides and roll from the bottom to the top. Do NOT
overstuff or the results will look like hand granades. The rice will
expand when baked.  Without crowding, arrange in neat layers in the
baking dish, covering the last layer with a few cabbage leaves.
Coarsely chop the tomatoes and pour over the rolls.  Add the bouillon
cube or Maggi seasoning, cover, and bake in a preheated 325 Degree F.
oven for about 2 hours.  Add tomato juice or water as needed, there
should be 2 to 3 inches of liquid at the bottom.  Baked rolls will
keep hot for about 1 hour.

Yield: About 2 dozen.  To freeze before baking, place the rolls on an
oiled baking sheet and freeze until rigid, then store in heavy
plastic bags. Serve with mushroom gravy.

