Title: PITA OF GREENS~ HERBS & EGGS
Categories: Greek, Vegetarian
Yield: 12 Servings
Karen Mintzias
2 lb Fresh greens *
Salt (see note at end)
1/2 bn Fresh parsley; chopped
1/2 bn Fresh dill; chopped
1    Handful fresh chervil; chop.
1/4 c  Butter or margarine
1 bn Scallions; chopped
1/2 ts Ground allspice
1/2 ts Ground cinnamon
1/2 ts Nutmeg
2 ts Granulated sugar
Salt & freshly ground pepper
5    Eggs; lightly beaten
1 c  Crumbled feta cheese
1/2 c  Milk, or more
1/2 c  Butter (optional); melted
12    Commercial filo sheets
Traditional and individualistic.  Village women learn to gather
tender, young greens from their rocky surroundings, which ironically
produce the most beautiful wild flowers and delicious greens. When
greens are bought in the markets, spinach is the most frequently
substituted. Cretans combine dandelions and spinach. This recipe is
written as recipes are spoken in Greece, in the warm first-person
plural.

*Note: Suggested greens are: Spinach, dandelions, chicory, endive or
any other fresh greens.

First we wash the spinach, trim coarse ends, drain, chop, sprinkle
with salt, and squeeze until all liquid has been drained. Now we
combine the spinach in a large bowl with the parsley, dill, and
chervil and mix thoroughly.  Allowing the greens to stand while
heating the 1/4 cup butte in a large frying pan, we add the scallions
to the butter and saute them until the white parts are translucent.
Continuing to cook over medium heat, we add the greens, the spices,
sugar, and enough salt and pepper for seasoning, careful to allow for
additional salt in the feta, which will be added later.  We partially
cover the pan and simmer for 20 minutes, or until all the liquid has
been absorbed, then we remove it from the heat and cool the mixture
in a large bowl.  Now we add the eggs, feta, and enough milk to
saturate the greens, mix, and assemble the pita as follows:

Butter a 15 x 11 x 2-inch baking pan.  Spread 6 filo sheets, brushing
each with melted butter.  Pour in the filling, spreading evenly.
Cover with the remaining filo sheets, brushing each with butter.
Flute the edges and brush top with butter.  Using a sharp knife,
score the top 3 filo sheets into square or diamond shapes. Bake for
45 minutes in a moderate oven (350 F) and allow to cool slightly
before slicing and serving it warm.

Note: You may eliminate the salting of the spinach by panning it,
cooking over very low heat until the leaves wilt, and then draining
it thoroughly.

From: "The Food of Greece" by Vilma Liacouras Chantiles. Avenel
Books, New York.

Typed for you by Karen Mintzias

