Title: PIZZA DOUGH (THORP)
Categories: None
Yield: 4 Servings
1 ts Active dry yeast (I am going
To try a whole pack = 2.5
Tsp, to see if
It's more bready)
1 2/3    To 2 C unbleached or
All-purpose flour
1 c  Cake flour
1 ts Salt
In a measuring cup or small bowl, sprinkle yeast over 1/4 cup warm
water; stir until dissolved. In a mixing bowl, combine 1 2/3 cups of
the unbleached or all-purpose flour, cake flour, and salt. Make a
well in the center of the flour mixture and pour in the yeast
mixture. With a wooden spoon, gradually stir in the flour, adding 3/4
C warm water as you mix. Turn the doug out onto a lightly floured
surface and knead until very smooth, soft, and no longer sticky,
about 10 minutes, adding additional flour as needed to keep the dough
from sticking. (The dough should still be quite wet, however.)

Set the dough in [a bowl sprayed lightly with cooking spray] and turn
to coat lightly. Cover with plastic wrap and let rise until doubled,
2 to 2 1/2 hours.

About 10 minutes before baking pizza, turn the dough onto the floured
board, punch it down and knead briefly. Use a pastry cutter or a thin,
sharp knife to divide the dough in half. (If you pull the dough
apart, you risk tearing the gluten strands.) Pat each half into a
ball and flatten into a disk.

ADD TOPPINGS! =-)

The dough can be made ahead, enclosed in a plastic bag, and stored in
the refrigerator for up to 2 days or in the freezer for up to 2
months. Defrost for at least 8 hours in the refrigerator and bring to
room temperature before using.)

582 calories per pizza crust, 16 g protein, 1 g fat, 123 g
carbohydrate, 1,070 mg sodium, 0 mg cholesterol (counts for white
flour.)

What I put on this pizza:

A tomato sauce with oregano and garlic and a pinch of sugar, roasted
onions, roasted peppers, roasted garlic, plumped sun dried tomatoes,
shitake mushrooms.

I also made a "turnover/calzone" type thing by placing a bean mixture
(black beans, garlic, onion, salsa, roasted red peppers -- next time
I want to add ff soy cheese) and baking for about 20 minutes at 350.
I made the apple turnovers by taking 1/8th of the dough, rolling it
thin, placing chopped apples on one half (about 1 1/2 small apples).
The apples had been mixed with some cinnamin and a pinch of brown
sugar. Cook both of these items on a cookie sheet lined with aluminum
foil because they run all over the place.

Hope you enjoy these!

Posted by thorp@sas.upenn.edu (Patricia Thorp) to the Fatfree Digest
[Volume 14 Issue 21] Jan. 21, 1995.
:(from Eating Well Magazine, May/June '94):

Individual recipes copyrighted by originator. FATFREE Recipe
collections copyrighted by Michelle Dick 1995. Formatted by Sue Smith,
SueSmith9@aol.com using MMCONV. Archived through kindness of Karen
Mintzias, km@salata.com.

1.80รก

