Title: PLUM PUDDING WITH GRAND MARNIER HARD SAUCE
Categories: Desserts
Yield: 1 Recipe
2 c  Chopped walnuts
1 3/4 c  Dried currants
1 3/4 c  Golden raisins
3/4 c  Chopped candied orange peel
3/4 c  Chopped candied lemon peel
1/2 c  Chopped candied citron
1 c  All purpose flour
1 ts Salt
1 ts Ground allspice
1/2 ts Ground ginger
2 c  Dried fresh breadcrumbs,
-lightly toasted
1 c  Light brown sugar, firmly
-packed
3    Eggs, beaten to blend
1/3 lb Ground suet
1    Granny Smith apple, cored
-and finely chopped
1    Carrot, peeled and grated
1/4 c  Fresh orange juice
1/4 c  Grand Marnier
1/4 c  Cognac
MMMMM------------------GRAND MARNIER HARD SAUCE-----------------------
1 c  Unsalted butter, room temp
3 c  Powdered sugar, sifted
1/4 c  Grand Marnier
1    Egg yolk
Preheat oven to 400F.  Butter a 2 1/2-quart pudding mold or crock.
Line with waxed paper and butter paper. Combine first six ingredients
in large bowl.  Mix in flour, salt, allspice and ginger. Add
breadcrumbs, brown sugar, eggs, suet, apple, carrot, orange juice and
Grand Marnier and mix well.  Pack tightly into prepared mold. Cover
with sheet of parchment or waxed paper cut t fit top. Set mold in
roasting pan. Add enough boiling water to pan to reach halfway up
sides of mold. Cover roasting pan. Bake five hours, adding more
boiling water to pan as necessary to maintain water level.

Remove mold from pan and lift off paper.  Pour Cognac over pudding and

replace paper.  Cover tightly with foil.  Cool to room temperature.
Refrigerate at least three days to mellow flavors. (Can be stored in
refrigerator up to three months.)

When ready to serve:  Preheat oven to 400F.  Set mold in roasting pan;

discard foil.  Add enough boiling water to reach halfway up sides of
mold. Cover roasting pan.  Bake until hot, about 2 hours. Discard
paper. Invert pudding onto platter.  Cut into wedges to serve.  Pass
sauce separately.

Grand Marnier Hard Sauce, Makes about two cups:

Cream butter and sugar in processor until light and fluffy, about one
minute.  Add Grand Marneir and egg yolk and process until smooth.
Transfer to serving bowl. Refrigerate until firm. Bring to room
temperature before serving.

Bon Appetit, Vol. 29, No. 12, DEC 1984, P. 114, Kelly, O. Submitted By
RUFUS@MELBPC.ORG.AU  On   TUE, 28 NOV 1995 171617 +1100

