Title: POACHED EGGS OVER CHICKEN-ANDOUILLE CAKES
Categories: New, Text, Import
Yield: 4 Servings
Tomato-Mustard Coulis:
1/2 c  Tomato concassee (peeled,
-seeded and chopped
-tomatoes)
3 tb Creole mustard
2 ts Minced shallots
2 ts Minced garlic
1 ts Salt
1/2 ts White pepper
1/2 c  Chicken stock or water
1/2 c  Olive oil
Chicken-Andouille Cakes
1 ts Plus 2 tablespoons oil
2 tb Each finely-chopped green
-pepper, onion and celery
1/2 ts Minced garlic
1/2 lb Raw chicken breasts,, finely
-chopped
1/2 c  Andouille sausage, cooked,,
-drained and crumbled
1    Egg
Up to 1 cup bread crumbs
Creole spice
Salt and pepper
Poached Eggs:
1 tb Salt
1 ts Vinegar
4    Eggs
Make coulis: In a saucepan combine all ingredients except oil and
bring to a boil; reduce heat and simmer 15 minutes. Transfer to a
blender and process, slowly streaming in oil until emulsified. Adjust
seasonings. Set aside and keep warm.

Make cakes: In a cast-iron or other ovenproof skillet, saute green
pepper, onion, celery and garlic in 1 teaspoon of oil for 1 minute;
transfer to a mixing bowl and combine with chicken, sausage and egg.
Add bread crumbs, a bit at a time, until mixture binds; season. Form
into 4 cakes; dredge them in remaining bread crumbs. Heat remaining
oil in skillet and pan-fry cakes until first side is browned. Flip
cakes, transfer pan to oven and bake for
10    minutes.

Poach eggs: In a shallow saucepan or skillet bring 2 inches cold
water, vinegar and salt to a boil over medium heat. Reduce heat until
water simmers gently. Begin stirring water and crack in eggs one at a
time; they will instantly take form. Poach eggs 3 minutes for
soft-cooked, 5 minutes for medium. Using a slotted spoon, scoop out
eggs. If necessary, gently pat dry with paper towels.

To serve, on 4 dinner plates arrange cakes, top with eggs, then
drizzle with warm sauce. Garnish with chopped parsley.

Yield: 4 servings Posted to MC-Recipe Digest V1 #1

Recipe by: ESSENCE OF EMERIL SHOW#EE083

From: Meg Antczak <meginny@frontiernet.net>

Date: Wed, 4 Dec 1996 07:57:46 -0500

