Title: COCONUT RUM PUNCH
Categories: Australian, Ceideburg 2
Yield: 1 Servings
Text Only
Here, courtesy of Mark Herron in Sydney, is a series of recipes from
Downunder.  These coconut recipes are from the Sydney Morning Herald
9/29/92 from a cooking column titled "Raw Materials" by Meryl
Constance. These are in an odd format, aside from being metric. There
are no ingredient lists or amounts leading the body of the recipe. I
considered listing the ingredients first, but++since I use a
non-standard format++ maybe someone with MM or one of the other
recipe programs would rather put them into that format. And no way am
I going to try to translate the metric measurements into American
ones.  Some of you whiz-kids with recipe programs with that feature
conversions can tackle that. As you'll see, these come from all over
the world, not just from Australia. Mark++gotta couple of question on
ingredients.  The rabbit recipe below calls for both red and green
capsicums and birdseye chillies. I know what the latter are, but are
"capsicums" what we call green or red bell peppers up here? And I
*think* that what are referred to as "brown onions" are probably the
one's with brownish skins that we call "yello onions" here.

And thanks for sending the papers over!  I getting a kick out of not
only the recipes, but also the ads and articles. A nice peek into
Ozzie life.

This is a version of an old recipe from Barbados.  You can use light
or dark rum.  One of the ingredients is simple syrup which is made by
dissolving 4 parts (any measure) sugar in 3 parts of water. If you
can't find a fresh young coconut, the chilled drinks cabinet in many
Asian food stores contains young coconut juice, which has been frozen
in plastic packs.

Put into a cocktail shaker or mixing bowl 30 ml lime juice, 60 ml
simple syrup, 90 ml rum.  120 ml young coconut- nut juice. Shake or
stir with ice cubes and strain into a tall glass. Garnish with a lime
leaf.

Serves 1 (lavishly).

Posted by Stephen Ceideberg; October 29 1992.

