Title: COLD WHITE-CUT PORK SLICES WITH GARLIC SESAME
Categories: Chinese, Pork, Ceideburg 2
Yield: 8 Servings
8    To 10 cups water
1 1/2 lb Boneless leg of pork, pork
-butt or loin
2    Green onions, crushed
3 qt Slices fresh ginger, crushed
2    Garlic cloves, crushed
1/4 c  Shao-Hsing rice wine, or
-dry sherry
Fresh coriander sprigs for
-garnish
MMMMM--------------------GARLIC SESAME SAUCE-------------------------
1 ts Finely minced garlic (about
-2 small cloves)
1/2 ts Fresh minced ginger (about
-2 quarter-sized slices)
1 tb Dark soy sauce
1 tb Light soy sauce
1/2 ts Hot pepper oil, or to taste
1 ts Asian sesame oil
1 1/2 ts Sugar
2 ts Rice vinegar
2 tb Minced fresh coriander or
-green onion
Joyce Jue comes through again!  You owe it to yourself to try this
method of cooking if you like pork, Chinese food or both. It's an
absurdly simple way to produce delicious foods. If you don't like
pork, fix this using a chicken.

Fresh ham or a fairly fat cut of pork is traditionally used for this
recipe, but boneless lean pork loin makes a delicious and leaner
substitute.  For a nontraditional presentation, serve the pork with
grilled asparagus spears, Asian eggplant and/or zucchini slices. Or,
arrange the slices on a bed of watercress with strips of roasted
pepper and serve as a first course salad.  Or, simply alternate the
pork with thin rounds of chilled cucumber.

Bring the water to a boil in a large pot, then add the pork, green
onions, ginger, garlic and wine.  Bring to a boil again. Skim off the
scum that rises to surface. Cover, reduce heat low and simmer for 45
minutes.

When the meat is done, half fill a large pan with cold water and ice
cubes. Remove the meat from the pot and immediately plunge it into
the ice water; let sit for 20 minutes to firm up the meat and juices.
Remove pork, pat dry, cover and refrigerate until thoroughly chilled,
at least 2 to 3 hours, or overnight.

GARLIC SESAME SAUCE:  Mix together all ingredients.

To serve:  Cut the meat crosswise into paper-thin slices (no thicker
than 1/8 inch) and arrange in a circular pattern on a plate. Serve
sauce on the side or drizzle it over the pork. Garnish with fresh
coriander leaves.

Serves 8 to 10.

PER SERVING:  120 calories, 14 g protein, 1 g carbohydrate, 6 g fat
(2 g saturated), 41 mg cholesterol, 250 g sodium, 0 g fiber.

Joyce Jue writing in the San Francisco Chronicle, 6/9/93.

Posted by Stephen Ceideberg; October 6 1993.

