Title: COLORFUL MARZIPAN FRUITS
Categories: Candies, Christmas
Yield: 24 Candies
MMMMM-----------------------BASIC MARZIPAN----------------------------
16 oz Almond paste
2    Egg whites
1/2 ts Extract, almond
4 c  Sugar, powdered
MMMMM------------------------CANDY MAKING-----------------------------
Cloves, whole
Egg whites
Food coloring, paste
Kirsch; or vodka
1/2 c  Water
1/4 c  Syrup, corn, light
Sugar, red
TO AVOID HARMFUL BACTERIA, BE SURE EGGS ARE NOT CRACKED BEFORE USE.
There are 4 steps to making colorful marzipan fruits: making basic
marzipan, shaping fruits, coloring fruits; glazing fruits. MAKE THE
BASIC MARZIPAN. Break up almond paste in large bowl. Add egg whites
and almond extract and mix thoroughly. Add sugar 1 cup at a time,
kneading well after each addition; add enough sugar to make a solid,
heavy dough. (The mixture is quite sticky and hard to handle at
first, but as you add sugar, it dries and becomes workable.) At this
point you may store the dough for up to 7 days by wrapping in plastic
and storing in plastic bag in fridge. Bring to room temp and knead
again before using. SHAPE MARZIPAN FRUITS: break off 1" balls of
marzipan and shape to look like lemons, oranges, apples, pears, and
strawberries. too much while you are shaping balls, chill briefly in
fridge. Shaping tips: Lemons and oranges: roll on fine grated to
create pebbly texture; insert cloves, star-shaped ends up, for stem
ends. Apples: indent tops, insert cloves pointed ends up to represent
stems. Pears: insert cloves pointed ends up for stems. Strawberries:
shape little flat marzipan stars to make caps; attach caps with
cloves and a dab of egg white. COLOR FRUITS: Use small, soft
paintbrush and paste food coloring diluted with a little kirsch.  Mix
colors (a gem muffin pan makes a good palette) and paint each fruit
completely. Don't forget to pain the strawberry caps green.  Place
painted fruits on wire rack to dry overnight; turn occasionally so
they dry evenly. GLAZE FRUITS: in small saucepan, sitr together water
and corn syrup to make glaze. Bring to boil, remove from heal, and
allow to cool until just warm. Brush warm glaze on red part of each
strawberry; sprinkle with red sugar and place on wire rack to dry
overnight.  Brush warm glaze on each fruit and let dry overnight on
wire rack.  When glaze is dry on strawberries, paint glaze on
strawberry caps and let dry overnight. Put marzipan fruits in paper
candy cups and store in airtight container. Brightly colored marzipan
fruits are so festive and pretty, somehow they suit the holiday
perfectly.

