Title: CONEJO EN SALSA DE CHOCOLATE
Categories: Game
Yield: 6 Servings
Stephen Ceideburg
2    Rabbits, about 2 1/2 pounds
-each
1 c  Olive oil
2 lg Garlic cloves, peeled,
-minced
3 c  Finely chopped onion
1 c  Finely chopped stringed
-celery
1    Carrot, peeled, grated
1/4 ts Ground cloves
1/2 ts Ground cardamom
1/8 ts Cayenne
1 c  Port
3    Morcilla (black) sausages,
-peeled, chopped (see note)
2 oz Unsweetened chocolate,
-finely chopped
1/4 c  All-purpose flour
8 c  Chicken stock (or water)
1 tb Coarse salt
3 tb Chopped fresh cilantro
From "The Art of South American Cooking," by Felipe Rojas-Lombar.

Wipe rabbits inside and out with a damp cloth. Remove and set aside
kidneys and hearts. Cut each rabbit into 3 sections: hind legs, loin
and front legs; separate legs, leaving loin in 1 piece.

Heat olive oil in a saute pan; add rabbit and saute over medium heat
for 20 minutes, or until brown on all sides, turning frequently. Set
aside. Pour off all but 1/4 cup oil from pan. Add garlic and onions
and saute over medium heat, stirring, until onions start to turn
golden, about 10 minutes. Add celery, carrot, cloves, cardamom and
cayenne. Add port, stir and cook until evaporated. Add sausages and
cook 1 minute. Add chocolate, stir, sprinkle flour on top and cook
another minute, stirring. Add 3 cups stock and the salt; bring to a
boil, stirring constantly. Lower heat; simmer about 25 minutes, until
thickened, stirring now and then. Add remaining stock and bring to a
boil over medium heat. Add rabbit and giblets. Lower heat to minimum,
cover, and cook for 1 hour and 10 minutes, stirring now and then and
scraping bottom of pan, or until rabbit is tender and sauce is
enriched and has thickened again. Transfer to a serving platter,
sprinkle with cilantro, and serve.

Note: Morcilla sausages often can be found at Hispanic groceries,
including those in San Francisco's Mission District.

PER SERVING: 645 calories, 39 g protein, 16 g carbohydrate, 44 g fat
(14 g saturated), 160 mg cholesterol, 1,430 mg sodium, 2 g fiber.

Jayne Benet writing in the San Francisco Chronicle, 3/18/92.

Posted by Stephen Ceideburg

