Title: COOKING HINTS
Categories: Info/tips
Yield: 1 Servings
1    Information
1.A slice of bread placed into a bag of hardened brown sugar will
soften it again in a couple of hours. 2.Potatoes will bake in a hurry
if they are boiled in salted water for 10 minutes before popping into
a very hot oven. 3. A leftover baked potato can be re-baked if you
dip it in water and bake in a 350 deg. F oven for 20 minutes. 4.A
thin slice from each end of the potato will speed up baking time as
well. 5.You'll shed less tears if you cut off the root end of the
onion last. 6.No more tears when peeling onions if you place them in
the freezer for 4 or
5    minutes first. 7.Scalding tomatoes, peaches or pears in
boiling water before peeling makes it easier on you and the fruit -
skins slip right off. 8.Riper green fruits by placing them in a
perforated plastic bag - the holes allow air movement, yet retain the
odorless gas the fruits produce to promote ripening. 9.To hasten the
ripening of garden tomatoes or avocados, put them in a brown paper
bag, close the bag and leave at room temperature for a few days.
10.When pan frying, heat the pan before adding butter or oil. 11.A
little salt sprinkled into the frying pan will prevent spattering.
12.Meat loaf will not stick if you place a slice of bacon on the
bottom of the pan. 13.Vinegar brought to a boil in a new frying pan
will prevent foods from sticking. 14.Muffins will slide right out of
tin pans if you first place the hot pan on a wet towel. 15.Scalded
milk will not stick to the pan if you first rinse the pan with cold
water. 16.A cup of water added to the bottom portion of a broiler pan
will absorb smoke and grease. 17.A few ts of sugar and cinnamon
slowly burned on top of the stove will hide unpleasant cooking odors
(and make folks think you've been baking all day!). 18.A lump of
butter or a few ts of cooking oil added to water when boiling rice,
noodles or spaghetti will prevent boiling over. 19.Rubbing the inside
of the cooking vessel with vegetable oil will also prevent noodles,
spaghetti and similar starches from boiling over. 20.A few drops of
lemon juice added to simmering rice will keep the grains separate.
21.Grating a stick of butter softens it quickly. 22.Soften butter for
spreading by inverting a small heated pan over the butter dish for a
while. 23.A dip of the spoon or cup into hot water before measuring
shortening or butter will cause the fat to slip out easily without
sticking to the spoon. 24.Before measuring honey or other syrup, oil
the cup with cooking oil and rinse in hot water. 25.Catsup will flow
evenly out of the bottle if you first insert a drinking straw to the
bottom of the bottle and remove. 26.If you wet the dish on which the
gelatin is to be unmolded, it can be moved around until centered.

