Title: COQ AU VIN BLANC - MCCALLS COOKING SCHOOL
Categories: Chicken, Main dish
Yield: 4 Servings
2 tb Butter or margarine
3 1/2 lb Chicken, cut in quarters
-(3 to 3 1/2lb)
18 sm White onions, trimmed
-(12-18)
4 sm Carrots, peeled and cut
-diagonally in 1 1/2" pieces
2    Cloves garlic, minced
2 tb Brandy
2 c  Dry white wine
1 tb Finely chopped parsley
1    Bay leaf
1 ts Salt
1/4 ts Ground white pepper
1/4 ts Dried thyme leaves, crushed
1/8 ts Ground cloves
1 pk (8oz) frozen sugar snap peas
In a large skillet over medium-high heat, melt the butter. Add chicken
pieces skin side down and brown well. Using tongs, turn chicken
pieces to brown on all sides. Transfer chicken pieces to a large
baking dish. Set aside.

Preheat oven to 350F. To drippings that remain in skillet, add onions,
carrots and garlic. Saute over medium-high heat until onions and
carrots are lightly browned.

Add brandy to skillet. Holding skillet with a pot holder, carefully
but quickly ignite the brandy. Shake skillet gently until the flames
subside. Add wine, parsley, bay leaf, salt, pepper, thyme and ground
cloves.

Increase heat to high and bring the carrot mixture to boiling,
stirring frequently. Remove skillet from heat. Using a large spoon,
transfer the carrot mixture to the chicken in the baking dish.

Cover baking dish with lid or aluminum foil. Place on center rack of
oven and bake 30 minutes. Uncover dish and distribute sugar snap peas
evenly over the chicken and carrot mixture.

Cover baking dish and bake 30 minutes longer or until juices run
clear when chicken is pierced with a fork and vegetables are tender.
Remove bay leaf. Transfer to a decorative serving platter.

RED WINE VARIATION: To make a more classic version of this chicken
dish, substitute a hearty red wine, such as Burgundy, Beaujolais or
Chianti, for the white wine. Add 1/21b tiny white mushrooms to the
skillet when the carrots are added and stir 1/2 tablespoon tomato
paste into the carrot mixture just before the chicken goes into the
oven.

McCalls Cooking School/Chicken, Poultry 8/Scanned etc by DP and GG.

