Title: DUCK WITH SUGAR CANE - VIT TIEM MIA
Categories: Vietnamese, Meats
Yield: 6 Servings
1/2 c  Shelled peanuts, red skin
-removed
1/2 c  Chestnuts, either fresh or
-dried
1/2 c  Ginkgo nuts, canned or fresh
1/2 c  Dried lotus seeds
8    Dried Chinese mushrooms
1/2 c  Red dates (jujubes)
1    Duck (about 5 pounds)
Salt
1 tb Finely chopped fresh ginger
-root
3    Shallots, chopped fine
2    Eighteen-inch pieces of
-sugar cane (if unavailable,
-omit)
Clear water from 1 coconut
1 ts Rock sugar
1 tb Fish sauce
3    Scallions, both green part
-and white, cut into 4
-pieces crosswise
Black pepper to taste
Fresh coriander, chopped
Prepare the various nuts, the lotus seeds, dried mushrooms, and red
dates as follows: Soak the peanuts in hot water for 30 minutes; drain
and set aside. If using dried chestnuts, boil for 20 minutes, drain,
and set aside. If using fresh ginkgo nuts, remove the shell and
blanch to remove the thin inner skin; set aside. Soak the Chinese
mushrooms in hot water for 20 minutes, then drain, remove the stems
and cut into quarters; set aside. Boil the dried lotus seeds for 20
minutes; drain and set aside. Soak the red dates in hot water for 30
minutes. (If they are very dry, boil for 10 minutes.) Drain and set
aside. Rinse and clean the duck. Rub salt over the duck and rinse
off; let dry for 10 minutes. Combine the ginger, shallots, and 1
teaspoon salt. Rub the inside of the duck with the mixture. Combine
the peanuts, chest- nuts, ginkgo nuts, lotus seeds, and 1 teaspoon
salt and stuff the duck. Sew the duck closed with heavy white thread,
or else use skewers. Peel the sugar cane and cut into thin lengthwise
strips, the same length as the duck. Place 3 pieces of white kitchen
string on a flat surface, long enough to tie the slices of sugar cane
around the duck, covering the entire surface. Bring the string around
and tie as you would a roast. Turn the duck over and slide the
remaining strips under the string, covering the entire duck with the
sugar cane. Pour the coconut water into a large pot. Put the duck
into the pot and add enough water to completely cover. Add the rock
sugar and 1 teaspoon of salt. Bring to a boil and remove the scum
continuously for 15 minutes, then turn the heat down, cover, and keep
at a lively bubble for 2 hours. Turn the duck every 30 minutes. After
2 hours, remove the duck from the pot; untie and discard the sugar
cane. To the liquid remaining in the pot add the mushrooms, red
dates, 1 teaspoon salt, and the fish sauce. Boil, covered, for 15
minutes, then remove the duck to the broth, cover, and simmer for an
additional 15 minutes. Remove the duck and add the scallion pieces to
the broth. To serve, break the duck, with the bones, into 8 pieces.
Put the pieces in individual bowls and add broth, some of the various
nuts that were stuffed into the duck, red dates, and mushrooms.
Sprinkle with black pepper and chopped fresh coriander.

