Title: DWIGHT'S BRISKET
Categories: Main
Yield: 1 Servings
SEE DIRECTIONS:
Everyone has their own way of doing things, this the way I do it.
First of all you must know up front I am a LazyQ kind of guy, who
wants consistency without a lot of effort. Brisket is my favorite of
all Q. I usually buy a 10# brisket packer or untrimmed [lot of fat],
the trimmed do not have the flavor as the fat boys. Unwrap the
brisket, wash it and while it is still wet apply a rub : 2 oz. of
each of the following ingredients : salt,black pepper paprika, garlic
powder, accent , chili powder. Add 1/2 oz. red pepper. Mix these up
and you will have a powder rub. If you are a spicy kind of guy apply
the rub thick.  If you a bland mellow guy like me, then apply
lightly. After the rub is on, it will stick like glue due to the meat
being wet, put brown sugar on as thick as possible. Place the brisket
on the smoker, fat side up, hold about 200 or so degrees. Smoking
time depends on the unit you have the wood you are using and so on,
but a good rule of thumb is 6 hours.  Once the meat is a dark color,
cut into it to see if it has a ring like the brisket you buy in a
restraunt, about 1/4" thick. At this point you have all the smoke you
need but the brisket is far from done. Take it off the smoker, put it
in the fridge, freezer, or go on to the next step. About 6 to 8 hours
prior to serving place the brisket in a deep pan, add about 1/3 cup
of water, seal the pan with a lid or tinfoil, place in the oven on
the top rack, set the temperature at 190 - 210. Within about 5 or 6
hours the house will be consumed by this mouth watering aroma,
driving the inhabitants into a frenzy. The weaker ones will go mad,
so make sure your family is mentally stable with some degree of will
power to wait on a good thing. If the meat is not tender to the point
of almost cutting it with a fork, it did not cook long enough. Prior
to serving trim off the fat, and you are now the genius that everyone
will give advice on how to start a BBQ restraunt. Oh, by the way,
expect up to a 40% shrinkage, a 10# brisket raw might be a 6# cooked.

: Dwight
Recipe By

