Title: EASY SWEET & SOUR CHICKEN
Categories: Poultry
Yield: 2 Servings
1 lb Chicken breast,
-boneless
1 ts Ginger, chopped
1    Egg white
1/2 ts Salt
2 ts Cornstarch
1/2 c  Vegetable oil
-(peanut oil is best,
-but sunflower is
-good, too)
1    Green (bell) pepper
6    Carrots
12 oz Pineapple chunks, canned
-(drained, but reserve
-about 1/2 cup of
-the juice)
SAUCE
2 ts Sherry
2 ts Light soy sauce
1 tb Vinegar
1 ts Sugar
1 tb Cornstarch
1 ts Salt
Cut up the chicken into bite-sized chunks.  Combine ginger, egg white,
about 1/2 teaspoons each salt and cornstarch, and about 1 teaspoon
oil. Add the chicken chunks and stir until the chicken is well-coated.

Wash green pepper.  Discard seeds and stem.  Cut into strips about 1
x 1/4 inches.  Peel carrots.  If they are thick, cut in half
lengthwise. Cut diagonally into pieces about 1 inch long. Cook the
carrots in boiling water for 3-5 minutes, depending how crunchy you
like your carrots.

Drain pineapple chunks, saving about 1/2 cup of the juice. Prepare the
sweet and sour sauce by mixing sherry, soy sauce, vinegar, sugar,
reserved pineapple juice, about 1 tablespoon cornstarch, and about 1
teaspoon salt. Stir well and set aside.

Heat about 3 tablespoon of oil very hot in a wok or deep cast iron
pan. Peanut oil is best since it has a high smoking point. Stir-fry
the chicken by putting a small batch (e.g., 5 pieces) of the cubed
chicken in the wok and stirring continuously until golden brown.
Remove to a dish. Repeat until all the chicken has been cooked,
adding small amounts of oil as it gets used up.

Heat about 1 tablespoon oil in an empty wok.  Stir fry the parboiled
carrots and the green pepper for 30 seconds. Add the chicken and the
pineapple chunks to the vegetables in the wok. Stir 1 minute or until
well mixed and reheated. Add sweet and sour sauce to wok. Stir until
thickened.

Serve with rice.  I serve this recipe to company all the time and am
amazed at how many people don't realize that you can cook Chinese
food at home. It is always a big hit. The recipe works equally well
with lean pork, tofu cubes, or soy beans instead of the chicken.

NOTES:

*  A nice Chinese dinner you can make at home -- Don't forget to start
cooking the rice so it will be done at the same time as the chicken.

: Difficulty:  easy.
: Time:  45 minutes.
: Precision:  measure the sauce ingredients.

: Andy Tanenbaum
: Dept.  of Math and Computer Sci., Vrije Universiteit, Amsterdam,
HOLLAND : ast@cs.vu.nl seismo!mcvax!cs.vu.nl!ast

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

