Title: EGGPLANT WITH HAM STUFFING
Categories: Main dish, Vegetables
Yield: 8 Servings
4 tb Butter
1 1/2 c  Onions, finely chopped
1    Clove garlic, finely minced
1 lb Fresh mushrooms, chopped
1    Juice of 1 lemon
Salt to taste
Pepper to taste
3 tb Parsley, finely chopped
1/2 ts Dried Thyme
2 tb Basil, finely chopped
1/2 lb Boiled ham, finely chopped
10 tb Fresh bread crumbs
7 tb Parmesan cheese, grated
3    Med. eggplants (2 1/2 lb)
Flour
Tomato Sauce *
1 c  Peanut, veggie, or corn oil
1.  Heat the butter and add the onions and garlic. Cook, stirring,
until onions are wilted, about 5 minutes. Add the mushrooms, lemon
juice, salt, pepper, parsley, thyme, and basil.  Cook over relatively
high heat, stirring frequently, until the liquid has almost
completely evaporated, 8 to 10 minutes. 2. Add the ham and cook,
stirring, about 4 minutes. Add 6 T bread crumbs and 3 T Parmesan
cheese. 3. Trim off the ends and cut each eggplant into 1/2 inch
slices. You should have about 16 slices. 4. Pour the flour into a
baking dish and add salt and pepper to taste. Dredge the eggplant
slices in the flour mixture on both sides, shaking off the excess. 5.
Heat about 1/4 cup oil in a large heavy skillet and add as many
eggplant slices as the skillet will hold. Cook until golden brown on
one side, 1 1/2 to 2 minutes, adding more oil, little by little. The
point is to add as much oil as necessary but as little as possible.
Turn the slices, cook until golden on that side, and drain on paper
towels. Continue adding eggplant slices and oil as necessary until
all the slices have been cooked on both sides.  The total cooking
time for all slices should be about 15 minutes. 6. Select a
rectangular, square, or oval baking dish. (A No. 6 Pyrex glass dish
that measures 11 3/4 X 7 1/2 X 1 3/4 inches works well.) Arrange the
smaller slices of eggplant, sides touching, on the bottom of the
dish.  Spoon the filling in the center, spreading it out but not
quite to the edges and mounding it in the center. Cover with the
remaining eggplant slices, overlapping as necessary. 7. Blend the
remaining bread crumbs and cheese and sprinkle over all. 8. When
ready to cook, preheat oven to 400 degrees. 9. Place the dish in the
oven and bake 35 to 40 minutes.  Remove the dish and pour off the fat
that will have accumulated on top and around the edges. Let cool
slightly. 10. Serve with tomato sauce.

*  Tomato sauce:

2 T butter, 1 1/2 T finely chopped onion, 1/2 t finely minced garlic,
2 c canned tomatoes that have been blended or sieved, 1/4 bay leaf,
salt to taste, pepper to taste.

Melt 1 T butter in a saucepan and add the onion and garlic, stirring.
When the onion is wilted, add the tomatoes, bay leaf, salt, and
pepper. Cook, stirring occasionally, about 30 minutes.

Swirl in the remaining 1 T butter and serve hot.

Yield:  About 2 cups

