Title: EGGPLANT~ PEPPER & GOAT CHEESE TERRINE
Categories: New text im, Cooking rig
2 lg eggplant -- stems removed
Olive oil
Salt and freshly ground
black pepper
Yield: 1 Servings
:
:
:
2/3 c  nicoise, kalamata or
picholine olives -- pitted,
chopped
:
:
2 TB capers -- drained, rinsed
1 TB parsley, chives and basil
(each) -- chopped
:
3 lg red or yellow bell peppers
8 oz fresh goat cheese -- beaten
with
:
2 TB buttermilk
1/2 c  pine nuts (toasted) --
coarsely chopped
Basil oil (recipe follows)
Garnish--
Fresh herb salad and reduced
balsamic vine
:
:
:
:
:

Slice eggplant lengthwise into 1/2-inch slices and brush generously
with olive oil. Season with salt and pepper and arrange in one layer
on baking sheets and broil in batches about 4 inches from heat until
eggplant is golden and tender. Transfer with a spatula to paper
towels and allow to drain.

Combine the olives, capers and herbs in a bowl and set aside. Char the
peppers and remove the charred skin with the point of a knife.
Discard the stems and seeds and cut peppers lengthwise into wide
strips.

Line a small 4-cup loaf pan or terrine with plastic wrap, leaving a 3
to 4-inch overhang. Arrange the eggplant, olive mixture, peppers,
goat cheese and pine nuts in several layers, beginning and ending
with the eggplant. Cover the eggplant with the plastic overhang and
weight the terrine with a 4 - 5 pound weight, such as another loaf
pan filled with canned goods, and chill in the refrigerator for 12 to
24 hours.

To unmold, remove the weights and invert the terrine onto a cutting
board. Remove the pan and the plastic wrap and carefully cut slices
with a serrated or electric knife. Place slices on chilled plates,
and garnish with a small fresh herb salad, drizzles of basil oil and
reduced balsamic vinegar.

Yield: 4-6 servings

BASIL OIL

2 cups lightly packed herbs, large stems removed 1-2 cups olive oil
Salt and pepper to taste

Blanch the herbs in lightly salted, boiling water until they turn a
bright green (about 5 seconds). Drain and plunge immediately into ice
water to stop the cooking process and set the color. Blanching
inactivates the enzymes that cause herbs to turn brown develop an
oxidized flavor.

Pat the herbs dry and add to a blender or food processor along with
enough olive oil to cover. Blend briefly to make a thick paste. Pour
into a clean tall jar and add enough oil to cover the puree by 2
inches. Stir well or shake and store covered in the refrigerator for
at least one day or up to 3 or 4 days depending on the color and
flavor desired. Strain the oil carefully through a fine filter or
cheesecloth. The oil should be very bright green and fragrant. Season
with salt and pepper if desired and store covered in the refrigerator
for up to 3 weeks.

: COOKING RIGHT SHOW #CR9734
Recipe By

Date: Tue, 22 Oct 1996 10:44:52
~0400 (

