Title: EGGS SARDOU
Categories: New, Text, Import
2 TB flour
Yield: 4 Servings
1 ts salt
1    lemon half
2    artichokes, -- trimmed of
leaves and stems
:
1 TB olive oil
1/4 c  chopped onion
1 TB chopped garlic
6 c  fresh spinach leaves, --
stemmed and rinsed
:
1 c  homemade or prepared
bJchamel -- (cream) sauce
:
1/2 ts Tabasco
Salt and white pepper
:
1 TB white vinegar
2    eggs
Hollandaise sauce, for
serving -- (see recipe)
:
:

Prepare artichoke bottoms: In a large, nonreactive pot whisk flour
with a little water to make a smooth paste; whisk in about 1 quart of
water and add salt. Squeeze juice from lemon half into water, then
add peel. Bring to a boil, simmer 5 minutes and add artichoke
bottoms. Cover, reduce heat to simmering and cook until artichokes
are tender, and base can be pierced with tip of a knife, 25 to 30
minutes. Let artichokes cool in their liquid. When artichokes are
cool enough to handle, use a small spoon to scoop out chokes. Use a
sharp knife to trim any remaining leaves.

Prepare creamed spinach: In a skillet heat oil with onion and garlic
over medium heat until tender. Add spinach in handfuls, stirring
until it reduces and releases its liquids. Cook until liquid
evaporates, 2 minutes. Fold in warm bJchamel sauce and season to
taste with Tabasco, salt and pepper. Keep warm.

Poach eggs: In a shallow saucepan or skillet bring 2 inches cold
water and vinegar to a boil over medium heat. Reduce heat until water
simmers gently. Break eggs, one at a time, into a ramekin or coffee
cup; holding ramekin as close as possible to water, gently slip egg
into water. Poach eggs 3 minutes for very soft-cooked, 5 minutes for
medium-soft. Using a slotted spoon, scoop out eggs and if necessary,
gently pat dry with paper towels. Season with salt and pepper.

To assemble: Make a bed of spinach on 2 warmed plates and top with
artichoke cups. Spoon a little Hollandaise sauce into cups and top
with poached eggs. Spoon remaining sauce over eggs and serve
immediately. Yield: 2 serving

:ESSENCE OF EMERIL SHOW #EE051
Recipe By

From: Rowaan <rowaan@ix.Netcom.Com>   Date: Sat, 19 Oct 1996 23:30:58
~0400

