Title: EL CHARRO BARBACOA (BBQ)
Categories: None
Yield: 6 Servings
2 lb Beef roast (eye of round or
Brisket) -- cut into 6
Chunks
2 qt Water
1/4 c  Garlic puree -- *
1 1/4 oz Pickling spice -- in
Cheesecloth pouch
1 ts Salt
BBQ sauce---
4 tb Oil
1/2 c  Green chiles -- roast, peel,
Chop
1    White onion -- chopped
1/4 c  Garlic puree -- *
1 tb Vinegar
1 c  Reserved meat broth
8 oz Canned jalapeno peppers --
Sliced thinly
1 tb Juice from canned jalapenos
1    Bay leaf
1/2 c  Salsa De Chile Colorado
1 ts Pepper
1/2 c  Green olives -- minced
4 lg Tomatoes -- chopped
1/2 c  Wine -- red or white
* Garlic Puree - peel 8 whole heads of garlic by smashing the cloves
with the side of a wide knife; the peel will slip off easily then.
Put the peeled garlic in a blender with about 2 cups of water, and
puree. Drain, if necessary, and store in a tightly closed glass jar
in the refrigerator.

At weddings, showers, saint's days celebrations and other special
occasions a hostess was sure to serve small tortillas or gorditas
(which are fatter, or mas gorda, than tortillas), one filled with
beans, the other with BARBACOA, along with shredded cappage, dressed
with vinegar and oil, and a salsa of some kind. Often nacatamales
(cocktail size tamales), perhaps filled with chicken, potato, raisins
and olives, would make up part of the plate offered. And no party was
complete without at least one verse of "Las Mananitas", the Mother's
Day song, or bizcochuelos, buttery cookies shaped like wreaths and
with the unforgettable flavor of anise.

In an 8-quart stock pot, bring water to the boil, add meat, garlic
puree, spice pouch and salt. Bring to the boil again, skim scum,
reduce heat and simmer 1 hour, or until the meat is tender,
frequently removing scum. Remove meat and cool enough to handle.
Discard spice pouch; reserve liquid. With fingers, shred the meat
finely.

In a large skillet, heat oil and saute green chile, onion, garlic
puree, vinegar, broth and jalapeno. Add bay leaf. Add shredded meat
and the rest of the ingredients. Simmer until flavors blend, about 10
minutes.

Place seasoned meat in a large, shallow baking pan and bake at 300
degrees for about 1 hour, stirring occasionally.

: El Charro Cafe Favorite Recipes
Recipe By

