Title: CRUSTY ROLLS (EW)
Categories: Breads
Yield: 16 Rolls
1 ts Malt extract or brown sugar
1 pk Active dry yeast
5 1/2 c  (approx) bread flour or
-unbleached all-purpose
-flour
1/4 c  Nonfat dry milk
1 tb Salt
Cornmeal for dusting baking
-sheets
In a large mixing bowl, combine 2 1/2 cups lukewarm water and malt
extract or brown sugar; sprinkle yeast on top and let stand until the
yeast is dissolved, about 5 minutes. Gradually stir in 3 cups of the
flour, stirring in the same direction for 3 minutes. Stir in nonfat
drymilk and salt. Then gradually add more of the remaining flour
until the dough becomes too difficult to stir.

Turn the dough out onto a lightly floured surface and knead, gradually
incorporating more flour as needed to prevent sticking, until smooth
and elastic, about 10 minutes. (Alternatively, the dough can be
kneaded in a stand-up mixer fitted with a dough hook).

Place the dough in a lightly oiled bowl, turn to coat and cover with
plastic wrap.  Let rise until almost tripled in volume, 2 1/2 to 3
hours. Punch dough down; cover and let rise until doubled, about 1
1/2 hours. (Or, you can let the dough rise for the second time
overnight in the refrigerator.)

Lightly oil 2 baking sheets or spray with nonstick cooking spray;
sprinkle with cornmeal.  Punch the dough down, turn out onto a
lightly floured surface and knead into a smooth ball. Divide the
dough into 16 portions. Shape each portion into a ball, then roll to
make a slight oval. As you work, keep any dough that you are not
using covered. Place the rolls at least 2 inches apart on the
prepared baking sheets. Sprinkle rolls with flour and rub gently over
the surfaces. Cover with a dry tea towel and let rise until almost
doubled, about 1 hour.

Thirty minutes before baking, place a baking stone or an inverted
baking sheet on the center rack of a cold oven. Place a metal cake
pan on the bottom rack; preheat to 425 F. Just before baking, pour 1
cup water into the cake pan.  Working with one batch at a time, cut a
1/4 inch deep slash with a serrated knife along the top of each roll.
Place the baking sheet on the baking stone or until the rolls are
golden brown and bottoms sound hollow when tapped.  Transfer to a
wire rack and let cool. Add more water to the cake pan, slash the
remaining rolls and bake them in the same manner. (The cooled rolls
can be stored in a plastic bag in the freezer for up to 3 months.  To
serve, arrange the frozen rolls on a baking sheet and heat in a 350F
oven for 10 to 15 minutes.

Entered by: Diane Pahl (1:2410/120) Recipes from: Eating Well, The
Magazine of Food and Health (tm) ISSN 1064-16399

