Title: CURRY CRUZ'S (KWANZAA) YAM SOUP
Categories: Soups, African, Kwanzaa, Vegetables
Yield: 12 Servings
1 lg Onion; chopped
4 ea Garlic cloves; minced
1/4 c  Olive oil
1 md Red bell pepper; chopped
2 tb Ginger, minced
12 ea Cloves; ground
1 ts Cumin seed; ground
1/2 ts Mustard seed; ground
1 ts Ground cardamom
1/2 ts Turmeric
1/2 ts Ground cinnamon
1/4 c  Tamari
28 oz Canned whole tomatoes
1 lg Sweet potato
1/2 lb Broccoli
1 lg Potato
2 qt Boiling water
1 c  Frozen corn
1 c  Cut green beans
1 c  Frozen peas
1/2 lb Fresh kale
Salt
In a large soup kettle, saute onion and garlic in oil over medium
heat. When the onions begin to soften, add the bell pepper and fresh
ginger. Mix the ground cloves, cumin, mustard seed, cardamom,
turmeric and cinnamon. Sprinkle over sauteed vegetables and stir. Add
soy sauce and juice from the canned tomatoes.  Let the mixture boil,
then turn the heat down, cover and simmer gently while you prepare
the sweet potato.

Peel the sweet potato, cut out any blemishes and cut into 1" cubes.
Add to the pot along with 1 cup water. Bring to a boil, turn heat
down, cover and simmer 20 minutes. Watch carefully and stir
occasionally to keep from sticking.

Chop the broccoli stem and florets into bite-sized pieces. Wash the
white potatoes well and, leaving the peel on, chop into 1" pieces.
Add broccoli and potatoes to the pot with 2 quarts boiling water.
Cover and cook for 20 minutes.

Chop the tomatoes into small pieces.  Add to the pot along with frozen
corn, beans and peas.  Cover and cook for another 20 minutes.

Wash the kale, remove the stem ends and tear the leaves into small
pieces. Before adding to the pot, taste the broth and add salt as you
wish. Add kale and use a wooden spoon to push and stir it down into
the soup. Cover and simmer 20 minutes, until kale is cooked. Serve
immediately.

Good served with corn bread.  Leftover soup can be frozen.

From "The Festive Table" by Ronni Lundy.  Farrar, Straus and Giroux,
1995. In Food Editor Sarah Fritschner's 11/22/95 "Come Celebrate!
Successful Holiday Traditions are Wrapped in Flexibility" article in
"The (Louisville, KY) Courier-Journal."  Pg. C5. Electronic format by
Cathy Harned.

