Title: DAMPER
Categories: Breads, Australian
Yield: 1 Damper
2 1/2 c  Flour, self-raising
1 ts Salt
1 ts Butter
1 ts Sugar
1 c  Milk (or use about
-1/2 C of powdered milk
-and about 1 C water)
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.  Mix together the dry ingredients and
the butter.   Add the liquid and mix well. Knead for about 5 minutes
(if you don't know about kneading, look in a good cookery book with
plenty of pictures, it's difficult to describe in words).

Shape into a flattened ball and place on a greased and floured baking
sheet or in a greased and floured round cake tin (I recommend the
latter, about 7 or 8 inch diameter, as it gives a better shape). Bake
for 30 minutes. Use a Dutch oven if you are cooking in an open fire,
and use your experience as to cooking time.

Serve in moderately thick slices while still fairly hot. I'm told that
golden syrup (a treacle-like substance made as a by-product of cane
sugar refining) is the traditional thing to spread on it, and that
goes well. Jam is good, too.

NOTES:

*  Bread as made by drovers in the outback -- I don't know how many
of you realize it, but there is a wealth of TV programmes about
cooking from around the world. We are lucky in that Australia's SBS
network (Special Broadcasting Service "multi-cultural television")
has a regular slot for food and wine at a convenient time on Saturday
evenings. Over the last couple of years we have seen series on
French, Indian, Chinese, English, Vegetarian, Australian and Sri
Lankan cookery, among others. If you're missing out, why not call
your local station?

This recipe comes from a series called "Australian Tableland".
Traditionally, damper should be cooked in the coals of a camp fire,
but the temperature in an oven is much more consistent! This recipe
has the advantages of being simple and, with ordinary care, reliable.

: Difficulty:  easy.
: Time:  10 minutes preparation, 30 minutes cooking.
: Precision:  measure carefully.

: Stephen Withers,
: The University of Melbourne, Parkville, Victoria 3052, Australia.
: UUCP: {seismo,mcvax,ukc,ubc-vision}!munnari!murdu.oz!stephenw
: CSNET:  stephenw%murdu@munnari.oz

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

