Title: DAUSSADES
Categories: Appetizers, French
Yield: 6 Servings
4 tb Butter
3 lb Red onions; medium sized
1 tb Balsamic vinegar
1 1/4 c  Red wine; full bodied such
-as Zinfandel or Petit Sirah
Salt & pepper to taste
Sherry wine vinegar
1/4 c  Ham, baked; minced
"Once upon a time, one rainy summer day in France, hungry, damp,
lost, and tired in a hill town overlooking the stormy Mediterranean,
I found a tiny auberge. Just like in the books, the patron welcomed
me warmly and led me to a tiny table beside the fire. Before I could
even slip out of my damp shoes he reappeared with a glass of red
wine, a basket of crisp rolls, and a heavenly dish that he called
"daussades." Whatever you call it, it is bliss. This recipe is as
close as I can come to the delicious dish that warmed and restored me
on that stormy day. The long, slow cooking of the onions produces a
thick, velvety sauce, sweet and a little tart. (The minced ham
doesn't hurt either.)

Halve the onions lengthwise and slice thinly. In a 4-quart enameled or
stainless steel saucepan, melt the butter over low heat. Add onions,
swirl them around, cover, and sweat them for 45 minutes, stirring
occasionally.

Uncover and increase the heat to medium-high. Cook, stirring
frequently, until the onions are glazed and golden, about 15 minutes.
Add the balsamic vinegar and boil down for 2-3 minutes to glaze
further.

Reduce heat to low, add the wine, and cook, stirring often, until the
onions are soft and a beautiful deep brown, 1 1/2 to 2 hours.

Season with salt, a grinding or two of black pepper, and a tablespoon
or so of sherry wine vinegar. Stir in the ham. Serve hot, at room
temperature, or warm.

AFTERTHOUGHTS: Daussades is wonderful with crusty bread, on toast and
served with drinks, with grilled chicken, or liver, or steak, or, or,
or... You may also like to try it with sweet Spanish onions.

This will keep, refrigerated, for 2 or 3 days, so don't wait for a
rainy day--make it sometime when you have a few hours, then get it
out and warm it up when you need it. It will be a star in your
culinary crown; that's a promise.

Source: "Lilies of the Kitchen" by Barbara Batcheller

