Title: DEATH BY CHOCOLATE
Categories: Chocolate, Cakes
Yield: 6 Servings
1/3 c  Egg white
3/4 c  Sugar
2 tb Cocoa powder, unsweetened
GENOISE
10    Eggs, beaten
3/4 c  Sugar
1 1/2 c  Flour; + 2 T
2 tb Cocoa powder, unsweetened
1 tb Butter, melted
MOUSSE
1 lb Belgian bittersweet
-chocolate
6    Egg yolks
8    Egg whites
1/2 c  Sugar
GANACHE
6 oz Belgian bittersweet
-chocolate
2/3 c  Whipping cream
GARNISH
1/2 c  Almonds, toasted chopped
1    Almonds, sliced; additional
12    Hazelnuts, whole
MERINGUE LAYER

Meringue:  Combine egg whites and sugar in the top of a double
boiler. Heat to lukewarm.  Remove from heat. Pour into mixing bowl
and beat about 15 minutes at medium speed, until stiff. Quickly fold
in the cocoa to prevent the meringue from falling.  Grease a 10"
springform pan, line with parchment paper, and grease again. Pipe
meringue through a pastry bag using the round tube, forming a spiral
on the bottom of the springform pan, starting from the center and
working out toward the sides until the bottom is completely covered.
Bake at 250 degrees for 2 hours. Allow to cool in the pan. Genoise:
Grease a 10" x 3" round baking pan, line with baking parchment, and
grease again. Combine beaten eggs and sugar in the top of the double
boiler. Heat to lukewarm. Remove from the heat. Pour into a mixing
bowl and beat on high speed about 10 minutes, or until the batter
forms a ribbon.  Sift the flour and cocoa into the batter and fold to
combine. Fold in the butter.  Pour into the prepared pan and bake at
350 degrees 35 to 40 minutes, or until the cake springs back when
lightly touched and a toothpick comes out clean. Cool thoroughly.
Remove from pan. Mousse:  Melt chocolate in the top of a double
boiler over simmering water. Remove pan from the heat and cool. Beat
in the egg yolks, one at a time. Beat the egg whites until soft peaks
form. Lightly fold a quarter of the beaten egg whites into the
chocolate. Fold in the remaining egg whites, lightly but thoroughly.
Chill. Ganache: Heat chocolate and cream together in the top of the
double boiler over simmering water until the chocolate melts.  Blend
well. Assembly: Spoon half the ganache over the meringue layer in the
pan and smooth evenly over the surface. Cut the chocolate Genoise
into two 1/4" slices, reserving the rest of the cake for another use.
Place one slice over the ganache and meringue layer. Cover with about
half the mousse. Top with the second layer of cake. Spoon the
remaining mousse over the cake and chill until set, at least four to
six hours.
Just before serving, spoon remaining ganache on the cake. Carefully
line the sides of the cake with chopped toasted almonds. Decorate the
top with hazelnut roses by placing the whole hazelnuts evenly around
the top of the cake, then place almond slices around each hazelnut to
resemble petals.

