Title: DEATH BY CHOCOLATE  *  PART 2
Categories: Desserts, Chocolate
Yield: 12 Servings
MMMMM-----------------PART 2 DIRECTIONS CONTINUE----------------------
Preheat the oven to 225 degrees. Using a 9-inch cake circle as a
guide, trace a circle with a pencil on a sheet of parchment paper cut
to fit a baking sheet. Turn the paper over and, with trace mark down,
place on a baking sheet. To prepare the cocoa meringue, place 4 egg
whites, the cream of tartar, and salt in the bowl of an electric
mixer fitted with a balloon whip. Whisk on high until soft peaks
form, about 45 to 50 seconds. Gradually add 1 cup sugar while while
continuing to whisk on high. Whisk until stiff, about 1 1/2 minutes.
Remove the bowl from the mixer and use a rubber spatula to fold in
and thoroughly combine the remaining 1/4 c sugar, 2 T cocoa, and the
cornstarch. Fill a pastry bag (with no tip) with the cocoa meringue.
Fill the traced parchment circle with meringue: start in the center
and pipe a 3/4-inch-wide spiral towards the outside of the circle.
Place the meringue in the preheated oven and bake for 15 minutes.
Lower the oven temperature to 200 degrees and bake for 2 hours and 45
minutes. Remove from the oven and allow to cool for 45 minutes before
handling. Raise the oven temperature to 325 degrees. While the
meringue is baking, prepare the chocolate mousse. Heat 1 inch of
water in the bottom half of a double boiler over medium heat. Place 6
ounces semi-sweet chocolate in the top half of the double boiler.
Tightly cover the top with film wrap. Allow the chocolate to melt
slowly, about 9 to 10 minutes. Remove from the heat and stir until
smooth. Keep at room temperature until needed. Place 1 1/2 c heavy
cream in the well-chilled bowl of an electric mixer fitted with a
well-chilled balloon whip. Whisk on high until peaks form, about 1
minute. Set aside. Whisk 3 egg whites in a large stainless steel
bowl, until soft peaks form, about 3 minutes. Add 2 T sugar and
continue to whisk until stiff peaks form, about 2 to 2 1/2 minutes.
Add a quarter of the whipped cream to the chocolate and whisk quickly,
vigorously, and thoroughly, then add to the egg whites. Now add the
remaining whipped cream. Fold all together gently but thoroughly.
Refrigerate the chocolate mousse until needed. See Part 3

