Title: Atole - Atole De Zarzamora
Categories: Mexican, Beverages
Yield: 6 servings
-scant 1/2 cup masa harina
-mixed with 1/3 cup water
2/3 c  Water
1 1/2 c  Warm milk
1 1/2 c  Warm water
1 1/2 oz Tablet drinking chocolate
1    3-inch cinnamon stick
3 tb Brown sugar, or to taste
Jim Vorheis
2 lb Wild blackberries
2 c  Cold water
1/2 c  Cold water
3 oz Tortilla masa (1/3 cup)
3 tb Crushed piloncillo or
-dark brown sugar to taste
1/2 c  Prepared tortilla masa, or
Though there are many variations, basically "atole" is a gruel thickened
with masa, sweetened with raw sugar, and flavored with crushed fruits -
such as pineapple and strawberries - or seasoned with chili. Some are made
with a base of ground rice; others with fresh corn. For the Mexicans atole,
too, is a natural accompaniment for tamales. For non-Mexicans, however, it
is really not the sort of beverage that would generally be accepted, no
matter how authentic.

Blackberry atole Put the blackberries and water into a saucepan and cook
over a medium flame, pressing them down from time to time, for about 10
minutes.  Puree the blackberries in a blender or food processor and press
through a fine sieve, or the fine disk of a food mill, to extract the
seeds, and return to the pan.

Add the water to the masa and press out any lumps with the back of a wooded
spoon.  When it is quite smooth, stir it into the strained blackberries.
Cook over low heat, stirring often until the atole begins to thicken.

Add the sugar and stir until dissolved.  It should take about 25 minutes to
reach the required consistency, so that the mixture will very lightly coat
the back of a wooden spoon.

Champurrado (Chocolate-flavored atole)

Put the masa into the pan with the 2/3 cup water and cook over a low flame,
stirring constantly, until it thickens - about 5 minutes.

Gradually stir in the milk and water and cook until it begins to bubble.
Add the chocolate, broken into pieces, the cinnamon stick, and the sugar
and cook slowly, stirring, until the mixture thickens - about 15 minutes.
The atole is done when a spoonful slides noiselessly rather than plops back
into the mixture.

The Cuisines of Mexico From the collection of Jim Vorheis

