Title: Jim's Piccalilli
Categories: Relishes
Yield: 6 servings
1 lg Spanish onion, chopped
4    Green tomatoes, blanched
-peeled & cut into chunks
1 md Cauliflower, broken into
-small flowerets
1    Cucumber, quartered length-
-wise and cut in 1/2" pieces    1 1/2 c  Pickling salt
2 1/2 c  Malt vinegar
8 oz Pearl onions, peeled
-----------------------------------SAUCE-----------------------------------
1 tb Turmeric
1 tb Dry mustard
1/2 c  Sugar
3 tb Flour
4 tb Water
2 1/2 c  Malt vinegar
3 tb Mustard seed, bruised
1 sl Ginger, 2", peeled & chopped
4    Garlic cloves, halved
1 tb Black Peppercorns, bruised
A traditional English mustard pickle, Piccalilli is made from a variety of
vegetables which are first soaked in brine, then pickled in vinegar.  The
finished pickle is yellow in colour owing to the presence of turmeric and
mustard.  The pickle may be served immediately it has cooled, but it
improves with keeping and may be stored for up to 3 months.  Piccalilli is
usually served with cold meats.  Use firm red tomatoes if green ones are
unavailable.  About 3 pounds.

Place the cauliflower, cucumber, pearl onions, Spanish onion and tomatoes
in a large bowl.  Sprinkle with salt over the vegetables and set them aside
for 4 hours.

Drain the vegetables in a colander and discard the liquid.

In a large saucepan, bring the vinegar to a boil over high heat.  Add the
vegetables and reduce the heat to low.  Cover the pan and simmer the
vegetables for 15 minutes or until they are almost tender when pierced with
the point of a sharp knife.

Remove the pan from the heat and drain the vegetables in a colander.
Discard the vinegar.  Place the vegetables in a large bowl. Sauce: To make
the sauce, pour the vinegar into a medium sized pan and stir in the mustard
seeds, ginger, garlic, peppercorns, turmeric, mustard and sugar. Place the
pan over low heat and stir to dissolve the sugar. When the sugar has
dissolved, increase the heat to moderate and bring to a boil, stirring
frequently.  Reduce the heat to low and simmer the mixture for 15 minutes.
Remove the pan from the heat and strain the liquid into a medium sized
bowl.  Discard the flavourings left in the strainer.

Rinse the pan and return the strained mixture to it.  Stir in the flour
mixed with the water and place over moderate heat.  Bring the sauce to a
boil, stirring constantly, and boil for 2 minutes.

Remove the pan from the heat and pour sauce over the vegetables.  Mix the
vegetables with the sauce with 2 spoons, tossing until coated with sauce.

Spoon into clean, warm, dry jars with screw top lids.  Spoon any sauce
remaining into the jars, so they are completely full.  Place lids on the
jars and half screw into position.  Set jars aside until completely cold.
Screw lids on firmly and store the jars in a cool, dry place.

