Title: Layered Tamale with Green Salsa
Categories: Mexican, Condiment, Vegetables, Salsa
Yield: 2 servings
-shredded
4 oz Chopped mild green chilies,
-drained
1/4 c  Fresh parsley
1/4 c  Fresh cilantro
1/4 c  Green onion, chopped
1    Medium-sized sweet red
-pepper, chopped
1/2 ts Chili powder
1/4 ts Ground cumin
4    To 5 drops hot pepper sauce
12    Servings
2    Ears fresh yellow unshucked
-corn
2 c  Masa harina or finely ground
-yellow cornmeal
1 3/4 c  Warm water
1/2 c  Vegetable shortening
1/4 c  (1/2 stick) butter, softened
1/2 ts Salt
1/2 ts Baking powder
1 c  Monterey Jack Cheese,
Green Salsa Fresh Cilantro sprigs

Shuck corn, saving husks; set aside.  Remove & discard silks.  Place husks
in a large saucepan, cover with water and bring to a boil over high heat.
Reduce heat to low & simmer 10 minutes. Drain in colander. Cool

Generously oil a 1-1/2 quart souffle dish.  Arrange husks, pointed end up
in an over lapping spoke design to completely line the bottom and sides of
dish. Husks should extend about 2" past the rim. Cover with plastic wrap
and set aside.

Cut corn from cobs.  Set aside in a bowl and reserve.  In a large bowl,
beat together masa, water, shortening, butter, salt and baking powder to
make a batter. Beat batter on medium speed 5 minutes; fold in cheese.
Remove 1/3 of the batter to the bowl with the corn & stir to combine. Spoon
corn mix into prepared dish. Smooth to level.

Place half of remaining batter into food processor bowl fitted with a
chopping blade; add the chilies, parsley, cilantro and green onion. Mix
until smooth. Spoon mix on top of corn (2 nd layer). Rinse the processor
bowl.  In the processor with chopping blade, use the rest of the batter,
the red pepper, chili powder and hot sauce. Process until smooth. Spoon mix
on top. (3rd layer)

Fold in husks.  To keep husks down, weight top of tamale with a 4" square
of aluminum foil filled with 1/2 cup raw rice or beans. Fill an 8 quart
saucepan with 1-1/2" water and insert a wire rack. Place dish on rack. Over
high heat bring to boil; reduce to low, cover tightly and steam for 1 hour.
Remove from pot. (It will expand during cooking and shrink on cooling.) Let
cool 1 hour. Remove foil. Invert plate over and unmold. Invert again to get
it right side up. Peel back husks. Cut in wedges.

Green Salsa:

In a large bowl combine: 1 sweet green pepper, chopped fine 2 Tomatillos,
chopped fine (or 2 ripe tomatoes) 1/2 cup finely chopped green onion 1 4
oz. can of green chilies 1/4 cup chopped cilantro 1/2 tsp. grated black
pepper

Stir in: 1 cup light olive oil 1/3 cup white wine vinegar 1/4 cup water a
dash of hot sauce

Mix until well blended

From: Country Living  July 92 Shared By: Pat Stockett

