Title: Pickled Plums
Categories: Pickles
Yield: 6 servings
-Bring to boiling
10    Minutes, pour over plums and
-let stand several hours.
Pickled Plums

Use 5 pounds plums; wipe with damp cloth and prick several times with large
needle.  Boil 5-2/3 cups sugar, 1 quart vinegar and cloth bag contining 1
ounce whole cloves, 1 ounce allspice berries, 1 ounce mace and 2 ounces
stick cinnamon; pour over plums and let stand overnight. Drain again, cook
syrup point, remove spice bag, pack in clean hot jars and seal at once.
Approximate yield: 5 pint jars.

This recipe was printed before it was recommended to water bath everything,
but between the fruit and the vinegar, I wouldn't think it would be over 10
minutes.

Damson Plum Conserve

Use 2 pounds plums, pitted and chopped, 1 orange, chopped and cooked 20
minutes in 2 cups water, 1/2 cup raisins and 3 cups sugar.  When thick, add
1/4 cup chopped walnut meats.  Approx. yield: 6 (6 oz.) glasses.

Plum Butter

Use 4 pounds plums; add 2/3 cup sugar for each cup pulp.  Approximate
yield: 1 1/2 quarts butter.

Plum Surprise

1/4 cup honey 12 plums 1/2 cup shredded
2 large oranges
coconut 1 cup heavy cream, whipped

Peel oranges and cut each in 6 slices.  Cut plums in quarters, removing
pits; roll in honey, then in coconut. Arrange a slice of orange on each of
6 desert plates; place 4 plum quarters on top and top with cream. Cover
with orange slice, top with cream and garnish dish with 4 plum quarters.
Yield: 6 portions.

Brandied Plum Sauce

Stew washed plums or prunes in water to cover about 10 minutes, or until
soft, adding sugar to taste when half done; to 1-1/2 cups sauce, add 2
tbsp. brandy and serve on ice cream or other desserts.

Frozen Plum Pudding

3 tbsp. shredded figs 1/4 cup seeded
1/2 cup maraschino cordial 1/4 cup finely shredded
3 tbsp. blanched chopped almonds 12 maraschino cherries, chopped
1/4 cup currants
raisins
citron
1 quart chocolate ice cream 3 tbsp. shredded dates

Wash currants, add raisins, and steam or simmer in small amount of water 5
minutes, or until plump;  drain and cool.  Marinate all other fruits in
maraschino cordial 6 hours; combine fruits and nuts, and mix into ice
cream. Turn into freezing trays of automatic refrigerator and freeze 2 to 4
hours, or until firm. Approximate yield: 3 pints.

Sorry about this one.  I had it all typed in and realized that there aren't
any plums in it. Red Plum Ice Cream

1 tsp. gelatin 3/4 cup sugar 2 tbsp.
8 red plums
cold water 1 1/2 cups water 2 tbsp. lemon juice 2 tbsp. corn syrup 1 cup
heavy cream, whipped

Cook plums with sugar and water about 15 minutes, or until soft; remove
stones and force pulp through sieve. Add corn syrup and gelatin, softened
in cold water, and stir over heat until dissolved; cool. Add lemon juice
and fold in cream; turn into freezing tray of automatic refrigerator with
temperature control set at coldest point. Freeze 2 to 4 hours, or until
frozen to the desired consistency, stirring once during freezing.
Approximate yield:  6 portions.

