Title: RYBA W SOSIE CHRZANOWYM
Categories: Fish, Polish, Holiday
Yield: 6 Servings
MMMMM----------------------------FISH---------------------------------
2    Carrots
2    Celery stalks
1    Parsley root
1    Onion, quartered
5    Peppercorns
1    Bay leaf
2 ts Salt
6 c  Water
2 lb Fish fillets
-(carp, sole, pike
-or similar fillets)
MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
3 tb Butter
3 tb Flour
3/4 c  Horseradish, prepared,
-cream-style
1 ts Sugar
1/4 ts Salt
2/3 c  Sour cream
2    Eggs, hard-cooked,
-peeled and sieved
Combine vegetables, dry seasonings and water in a saucepan or pot.
Bring to a boil; simmer 20 minutes, then strain.

Cook fish in the strained vegetable stock 6 to 10 minutes, or until
fish flakes easily.  Remove fish from stock. Arrange on serving
platter and cover with plastic wrap. Chill. Strain fish stock and
reserve 3/4 cup for horseradish sauce; cool.

For horseradish sauce, melt the butter in a saucepan, then blend in
flour until smooth, making what the French would call a roux. Add the
cooked fish stock gradually, stirring constantly. Cook and stir until
the sauce boils and becomes thick and smooth.

Remove from heat and stir in horseradish, sugar, salt, sour cream and
eggs. Cool for 15 minutes.  Pour the horseradish sauce over the
chilled fish and garnish with shredded lettuce.

NOTES:

*  Fish in horseradish sauce -- This recipe is the first of the 12
dishes that make up the traditional Polish Christmas-eve meal, which
is eaten after sundown on Christmas eve. The Polish word for
Christmas eve is Wigilia (pronounced VI-gee-lee-ah). Its root is like
the English vigil: waiting for Christ to be born. At the end of the
Wigilia meal the family goes off to midnight mass at church.

There are usually 12 dishes in a Wigilia meal to symbolize the 12
apostles, though some families serve 13 because they include Christ
in their count. The meal starts when the first star can be seen; this
symbolizes the star of Bethlehem. Although The Wigilia is meatless
(Advent, the season of penance, continues until midnight), it is
still festive and delicious. The tradition of Wigilia, though
centuries old, is still current in Poland. There is no fixed set of
rules for what the 12 (or 13) dishes must be; the items in the meal
change somewhat according to location and availability of ingredients.

Nevertheless, all of the dishes are traditional, and in addition
there are many traditions for the serving of the meal. For example,
some people place straw under the tablecloth to symbolize the manger
in which Christ was born. Most families set an extra place, for the
stranger who might be passing by. This is my family's traditional
Wigilia meal:

: Fish in horseradish sauce
: Pike Polish style
: Pickled beets
: Pickled herring in sour cream
: Stewed sauerkraut with mushrooms
: Christmas eve kutia
: Almond soup
: Noodles with poppy seed and raisins
: Poppy-seed rolls
: Christmas bread
: Baked apples with red wine
: Marzipan
: 12-fruit compote

With this first recipe you will notice a similarity with my last
name. Now you know a word of Polish (namely chrzan = horseradish i.e.
hot stuff).

: Difficulty:  moderate.
: Time:  1 hour.
: Precision:  approximate measurement OK.  Experiment.

: Original recipe passed down through the generations and translated
from Polish into English (with a few mods) by Edward Chrzanowski
: MFCF, University of Waterloo, Waterloo, Ontario, Canada
: echrzanowski@watmath.waterloo.edu or
{ihnp4,allegra,utzoo}!watmath!echrzanowski

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

