Title: SALMON SPINACH PIE
Categories: Seafood, Appetizers
Yield: 4 Servings
12 oz Salmon; steamed
1 lb Frozen chopped spinach; cook
2 1/2 c  Bechamel sauce
2    Hard-boiled eggs
1 tb Chopped parsley
1 ts Dill
Salt
Fresh ground black pepper
8 oz Puff pastry; thawed, if froz
-----for glazing-----
1/2    Beaten
Cook the frozen spinach in a little salted water as directed on the
package.  If using fresh spinach you will need to cook approximately 2
pounds.

Drain well and line the bottom of a buttered pie plate.

Mix the cooked, boned and skinned salmon with the bechamel sauce and
chopped hard-boiled eggs.  Mix in the dill and parsley and pour the
mixture on top of the spinach.

Roll out the puff pastry 2 inches larger than the pie plate. Cut a 1
inch wide strip from the outer edge of the pastry. Brush the rim of
the plate with water and fit the pastry strip around. Lift the
remaining piece of pastry over the rolling pin and transfer to the
pie plate. Press the edges together and trim with a sharp knife held
at an angle away from the dish. To seal the edges firmly together
hold the knife horizontally towards the pie plate and make a series
of shallow cuts round the edge. Flute the edges with the thumb and
forefinger and pull in the flutes with the back of a knife.

To make decorative leaves for a savory pastry pie, cut remaining
pastry into 1.5 inch strips using the rolling pin or ruler as a
guide. Every 2.5 inches cut the strips at an angle to make diamond
shapes. Press lines on the diamonds to make the veins of the leaves.

Make a hole in the middle of the pie by making a cross with a knife
and fold back each part, arrange the leaves in a decorative pattern
around the middle and brush with beaten egg.

Bake in a pre-heated 425 oven until pastry is well risen and golden
brown - approximately 30 minutes. Cover with foil or waxed
grease-proof paper if pastry shows any sign of browning too much.

Serves 4.

(Adapted from a recipe from "Classic Fish Dishes" by Myra Street.

