Title: SALMON COULIBIAK
Categories: Fish, Harned 1994, Main dish, Russian, Vegetables
Yield: 1 Batch
14 oz Pkg. frozen puff pastry
17 1/2 oz Can cohoe salmon
1/2 lb Fresh mushrooms
-- finely chopped
1/2 c  Finely chopped onion
3 tb Unsalted butter
1 ts Lemon juice
3 lg Eggs plus
1    Egg yolk; for pastry glaze
Chicken stock
3 c  Long-grain rice
-- cooked in chicken stock
4    Fresh dill sprigs
Salt and pepper; to taste
1 c  Medium-thick bechamel sauce*
*Well-seasoned with salt, pepper, nutmeg and tarragon.

Thaw puff pastry in refrigerator overnight.

Flake salmon, discarding bones but reserving juices to add to white
sauce.

Mince mushrooms and onions; saute in butter and lemon juice until
liquid has evaporated.  Chill (or freeze) in airtight container, if
preparing in advance.

Hard-cook the 3 eggs.  Peel and slice.

Make the bechamel sauce, adding juice from salmon.

Lightly grease a large cookie sheet (12 x 18"); set aside. On pastry
cloth, roll out pastry dough to form a rectangle about 12 x 15" and
about 1/4" thick.

To assemble the dish, build layers along the center of dough as
follows. Season each well.  Spoon on: half the rice; half the
mushroom-onion mixture; 1/3 the white sauce; all the flaked salmon;
1/3 white sauce; fresh dill sprigs; sliced eggs; rest of
mushroom-onion blend; rest of white sauce; and rest of rice.  (Note:
The rice absorbs cooking juices and keeps pastry from being soggy.)
Season top.

Fold dough over filling, folding and turning up ends. Cut off any
excess dough.  Seal pastry edges on top and at each end with egg yolk
glaze (one egg yolk mixed with a little milk or water). I like to
shape the dough into a fish shape, head and tail at either end. Brush
pastry with glaze.

Carefully lift ends of pastry cloth and roll coulibiak over onto
greased cookie sheet so seam is on the bottom.

Decorate top with cutouts of leftover dough (make eyes, fins and
scales if desired).  Be sure to put several slits into the pastry to
allow steam to escape.  Assembled coulibiak can be refrigerated up to
several hours before baking if necessary.

Bake in a preheated 400 F. oven for 25 to 30 minutes, or until crust
is golden and juices start to appear. Watch crust carefully. If
browning too quickly, turn heat down to 375 F. and cook 10 minutes
longer. Allow to stand 10 minutes at room temperature.

To serve, loosen bottom of coulibiak with 2 spatulas and slide onto a
heated platter or serving tray. Slice into crosswise pieces to serve.
Good served with a crisp tossed salad.

Yield: 6 to 8 servings.

Enright writes: "Former cooking school instructor Stephanie Woroshyl
taught me how to prepare this elegant Russian dish...Most of the
steps can be done a day or two in advance, making it ideal for
impressive entertaining."

From _Nancy Enright's Canadian Herb Cookbook_ by Nancy Enright.
Toronto: James Lorimer & Company, 1985.  Pp. 38-39. ISBN
0-88862-788-2. Electronic format by Cathy Harned.

