Title: SAN SE JU I CHUAN (TRI - COLOR SHRIMP ROLLS)
Categories: China, Seafood
Yield: 4 Servings
1/2 lb Shrimp, small fresh peeled
1 1/2 oz Pork fat
3    Black mushrooms
4    Green vegetable leaves
2    Eggs
1/2 ts Salt
1 ts Cornstarch
MMMMM----------------------MARINATE SHRIMP---------------------------
2    Scallions
3    Ginger slices
1/2 tb Wine
1/2 ts Salt
1/2 ts Pepper
1/2    Egg white
1 tb Cornstarch
Procedure:

1) Sprinkle some salt on shrimp and mix well.  Rinse in water and
dry. Pound shrimp on cutting board gently with the back of a knife.
Then chop it into a minced paste. Mince the pork fat and mix both
well in a large bowl.

2) Pound the scallion and ginger and chop into bits.
Place them in a small bowl and add water and wine

3) Pour water from above mixture into the bowl of minced shrimp and
add the pepper, the salt and the 1/2 an egg white. Stir well in one
general direction until sticky and smooth. Add 1 tablespoon of
cornstarch and stir again.

4) Soak the mushrooms in a bowl of warm water for 10 minutes. Drain,
remove the stems, and shred into thin slices. Boil the green
vegetables in boiling water for 3 seconds. Plunge in cold water and
squeeze dry.

5) Beat 2 eggs.  Add 1/2 teaspoon of salt, 1 teaspoon of cornstarch
(mixed with 1 tablespoon of water).
Make into a thin pancake (about 10 inches).  Remove cooked pancake
and cut it into a large square.

6) Sprinkle some cornstarch on the pancake.  Spread 1/2 of shrimp
mixture evenly over pancake and sprinkle some more cornstarch on it.
Spread the vegetable leaves and rest of the shrimp mixture on it.
Finally, put the shredded mushroom shreds into 2 rows along the two
ends. From these two ends, slowly roll pancake toward the center and
paste together with some shrimp paste. Place upon oblong dish and
steam for about 8 minutes.

7) Remove and cut into slices.  Arrange on plate attractively. (You
may make a flour-batter: mix with some eggs flour, cornstarch and
cold water. Dip the whole shrimp roll into the mixture and deep fry
until golden brown, then cut into slices).

NOTE: Laver and ham shreds may be used in place of the vegetable
leaves and black mushrooms.

Posted by [Cookie Lady] from Pei Mei's Chinese Cook Book Volume II
by Fu. Pei Mei  Printed by Chiu-Yu Printing Co, Ltd (1974)

