Title: SANDWICH COOKIES
Categories: Cookies
Yield: 1 Servings
2    Egg yolks
2 tb Milk
2 1/4 c  All-purpose flour
3/4 c  Sugar
3/4 c  Butter or margarine,softened
1 ts Vanilla extract
1/4 ts Salt
MMMMM-------------------BUTTER CREAM FROSTING------------------------
4 tb Sweet butter
1/2 c  Solid shortening
1 pn Salt
1/2 lb Confectioners sugar*
1 1/2 tb Milk
1/2 ts Vanilla
1/2 tb Water
3 dr Green food color
3 dr Red food color
3 dr Yellow food color
* (2 cups loosely packed)

Children will love these-they are fun to make and to eat. Adults
will also find them irresistible.

Preheat oven to 375ø.

In large bowl, with mixer at low speed, beat egg yolks and milk
until well blended. Add flour, sugar, butter, vanilla and salt; beat
ingredients until just mixed. Increase speed to medium and beat 2
minutes, occasionally scraping bowl. Divide dough in half.

On floured pastry cloth, with lightly floured stockinette- covered
rolling pin, roll one dough half 1/8-inch thick. With 2 1/4-inch
fluted-edged cookie cutter, cut dough into rounds; with 1/2-inch
round cutter, cut out centers from half of rounds. Reserve the dough
scraps.

Using a pancake turner, place rounds 1/2-inch apart on un- greased
cookie sheets; bake at 375ø 8-10 minutes until lightly browned. With
pancake turner, remove cookies to wire racks to cool completely.

Repeat cutting and baking with second half of dough, rerolling
scraps.

Prepare frosting: In the bowl of an electric mixer, place all
frosting ingredients (except food color) and beat at low speed for 2
minutes. Scrape sides of bowl and continue beating at high speed for
6 minutes. Divide frosting into thirds and tint with food color.

On bottom side of cookie without a hole, spread teaspoonful of either
green, pink or yellow frosting; top with a cookie with a hole in it
to make a "sandwich." Repeat with remaining cookies and frosting.
(Use any leftover frosting for graham crackers or cupcakes.)

Yield: about 42 sandwich cookies. Larry Rosenberg, author of Muffins &
Cupcakes (published by The American Cooking Guild), Fairview, NJ.

Randy Shearer

