Title: SATEHS WITH SPICY PEANUT SAUCE
Categories: None
Yield: 1 Servings
2 lb Boned chicken legs, thighs
-or breasts
MMMMM--------------------------MARINADE-------------------------------
6 tb Oil (canola, etc.)
2    Stalks lemon grass
3 lg Juicy cloves garlic
1/2 ts Red pepper flakes or cayenne
2 tb Curry powder
2 ts Brown sugar or honey
MMMMM------------------------PEANUT SAUCE-----------------------------
1/2 c  Oil (canola, peanut, etc)
1 1/2 c  Chicken stock
1 1/2 c  Coconut milk
6    Shallots
3 lg Juicy cloves garlic
2    Stalks lemon grass
1 ts Curry powder
1/2 ts Red pepper flakes or cayenne
Peanuts or chunky peanut
-butter
5    Bay leaves
Juice from a lemon
Fish sauce
PROCEDURES

Prepare marinade in blender or food processor.  Set aside. Bone
chicken and cut into cubes around 1/2 inch on a side. Slide cubes
onto soaked wooden or flat metal skewers.  (Make the satehs the right
length for your bbq or broiler.)

Load the satehs into a shallow bowl or baking dish. Slather with
marinade. Let sit in fridge for 2-24 hours.

To make peanut sauce, peel and chop lemon grass, shallots and garlic.
The lemon grass should be chopped very finely. Heat oil in a skillet.
When hot, saute the shallots, garlic, lemon grass, curry powder and
pepper flakes or cayenne for 2 or 3 minutes, until light brown. (Use
hood fan - intense fumes!)

Stir in the chicken stock, lemon juice, around 3 tablespoons fish
sauce, and bay leaves.  Simmer gently for a few minutes.

Now stir in coconut milk and about 2 tbsp ground peanuts or chunky
peanut butter.  Cook gently, stirring constantly, until hot but not
quite bubbling (coconut milk has a tendency to curdle if cooked too
hot). TASTE IT. The peanut flavor should be in there, but subtle.
Adjust flavors to your satisfaction with hot pepper, fish sauce
and/or peanut until it's right on. Cook down gently to desired
thickness (or thin with chicken broth or water), and take off heat.
Reheat gently when about to serve the satehs.

Get your rice going, and start barbecuing or broiling the satehs.
Stockpile them in a warm oven until all are done. Serve satehs with
rice, both drenched in peanut sauce. Pass more peanut sauce around
the table, along with a heat source for those who want more fire,
such as vinegar/fish sauce/lime juice/fresh hot pepper/honey.

