Title: SCALLION PANCAKES #1
Categories: Chinese, Pancakes
Yield: 4 Servings
2 c  Flour, + about 1/4 cup for
-kneading
1 ts Sugar
2/3 c  Boiling water
1/4    To 1/3 cup cold water
2 ts Sesame oil
1 ts Kosher salt
1/2 c  Finely minced scallions
1/2 c  Peanut oil
A dough is made, a cylinder is formed, the cylinder is shaped into a
coil, which is then flattened and fried. The result is the most
sensational fried bread you may ever taste. It's a favorite street
snack in china.

In a large bowl, combine the 2 cups flour and the sugar. Stir in the
boiling water, and mix with chopsticks just until water is absorbed.
Gradually stir in enough cold water so that a dough forms and pulls
away from the sides of the bowl and is no longer sticky. Turn the
dough out onto a lightly floured surface and knead for 3-5 minutes,
or until smooth and elastic.  Cover loosely with a dampened cloth and
let rest for 1 hour. Redust surface with flour and knead dough again
for several minutes, or until smooth. Divide dough into 4 equal
pieces, and cover with dampened cloth.  Using a floured rolling pin,
roll one piece of dough into a 6-7 inch round.  Lightly brush with
sesame oil. Evenly scatter some salt and scallions on the round, then
roll up into a tight cylinder. Coil cylinder around itself into a
spiral, and pinch the end under into the dough. Repeat with the
remaining dough pieces. Cover coils with a dampened cloth and let
rest 15-20 minutes.  Using a floured rolling pin, roll the coiled
dough on a floured surface into 6-7 inch rounds. heat the peanut oil
in a wok or heavy skillet over medium high heat to 375F. Carefully
add a pancake and fry 1-2 minutes per side, or until golden. As each
pancake fries, press the center lightly with a metal spatula to
insure that it is cooked. Remove to a plate lined with paper towels
to drain. Repeat with remaining pancakes. Cut each pancake into 6-8
wedges. Serve immediately. Serves 4-6 as part of a multi-course meal.

Origin: Cookbook Digest, Mar/April 93 Shared by: Sharon Stevens.

