Title: SEMOLINA BREAD WITH BLACK SESAME SEEDS
Categories: Breads
Yield: 1 Servings
1 ts Active dry yeast
1 7/8 c  Water -- 105-115 degrees
1 1/4 c  Basic bread sponge
3 1/2 c  Durum wheat flour
1/3 c  Durum wheat flour -- for
Kneading
1/3 c  Yellow cornmeal
1/4 c  Black sesame seeds
4 ts Kosher salt
Cornmeal -- for sprinkling
Black sesame seeds may be available at health food stores or Japanese
markets.

In a bowl, dissolve  the yeast in the water.  Allow to proof for three
minutes.

Stir the sponge into the water, breaking the sponge up using your
hands or a spoon.

Add 3 1/2 cups of the durum flour, cornmeal, 2 tablespoons of sesame
seeds, and the salt and mix, scraping and folding until the dough
gathers into a single mass.  Turn the dough out onto a lightly
floured surface, and knead the dough until smooth and elastic,
gradually adding as much of the 1/3 cup of durum aas needed (but as
little as you can get away with).

Shape into a ball and place the dough in a lightly oiled bowl, cover
with plastic wrap and refrigerate overnight.

After removing the dough from the refrigerator, allow to sit for two
hours in a draft-free location.

Sprinkle a baking sheet, without sides, generously with cornmeal.
Flour a worksurface.  Halve the dough and flatten each half gently
into a 10x12 inch rectangle. Roll each rectangle tightly along a 10
inch side, making two 12 inch cylinders.  Roll from the center
towards the edge to make 20 inch ropes. Coil the rope from one end,
pulling up the center knot. Place the coils on the baking sheet.

Mist the loaves lightly using a plant sprayer.  Spoon a tablespoon of
the seeds along each of the coils. Cover with plastic wrap and allow
to double in a draft-free location. This should take 1 to 2 hours.

Preheat the oven for at least thirty minutes along with a baking
stone or tiles on the middle rack to 425. Place a baking pan with
decent sides on the bottom shelf. Boil two cups of water. Pour the
boiling water into the baking pan.   With a quick jerk, slide the
loaves off the sheet and onto the stone.

Bake for 25 minutes until the loaves are hollow sounding when tapped
on the bottom.  When done, cool on a rack.

Note:  Durum wheat is the hardest variety of wheat and makes a very
high-gluten flour.  Durum is made from the same wheat as semolina,
but is finely ground and is superior for making bread. It can be
found in health food stores, specialty food markets, and some Italian
markets.

: Amy Scherber, Food&Wine 2/93
Recipe By

From: 	owner-Mm-Recipes@idiscover.Net O

