Title: SHARON'S FAMOUS PASSOVER BROWNIES & BROWNIE I
Categories: Bars, Publication, Jewish, Frostings, Passover
Yield: 1 Servings
2    Slightly beaten eggs
1 c  Sugar
1/4 c  Cocoa powder
1/4 ts Salt
1/2 c  Cooking oil
1/2 c  Matzo cake meal
1/2 c  Semisweet chocolate pieces
1/2 c  Coarsely chopped nuts (opt)
-Dark Chocolate Glaze (opt)
In mixing bowl, beat eggs, sugar, cocoa powder and salt.

Add oil to mixing bowl and blend well. Stir in the matzo cake meal and
chocolate pieces. Stir in nuts, if desired.

Line an 8x8x2" baking pan with foil. Grease lightly. Turn batter into
prepared pan and spread evenly.

Bake at 325-F for 25 to 30 minutes or till done (top will be shiny and
edges dry). Let cool in pan on wire rack.

Meanwhile, prepare glaze if desired. Spread over cooled brownies.

Dark Chocolate Glaze: In a small heavy saucepan or skillet, melt 1 cup
semisweet chocolate pieces over low heat. Remove from heat and stir
in 1 tsp butter or margarine. In a small bowl, dissolve 1/2 tsp
instant coffee crystals in 1 Tbsp hot water. Stir in 3 Tbsp dairy
sour cream and 1/4 tsp maple flavoring. Add sour cream mixture to
chocolate, stirring till smooth and shiny. Makes about 3/4 cup.

Note: For a regular brownie, you can substitute 3/4 cup all purpose
flour for the matzo cake meal and add 1 tsp vanilla. Also, you can
double the recipe. Use a 13x9x2" baking pan and bake batter for about
30 minutes.

Brownie Ice Cream Pie: Prepare brownie batter as directed. Line a 9"
pie plate with foil and grease lightly. Turn batter into pie plate.
Bake at 325-F for 30 minutes. Remove from oven. Using the back of a
wooden spoon dipped in cocoa powder, press hot brownies down, then
gradually outward and evenly up the sides of pie plate. Cool, then
freeze till firm.

Make Dark Chocolate Glaze while crust is freezing; cool glaze to room
temperature. Lift shell from plate; remove foil. Fill with 1/2 gal of
slightly softened ice cream or frozen yogurt, adding a middle layer
of the glaze and more chopped nuts. (If you'd like a smaller pie, use
1 qt of ice cream in the crust, then top with glaze and chopped
nuts.) Sharon Winstein and her friend Louise Levitt created these
flour-free brownies for their first temple cooking class. For a
twist, make the Brownie Ice Cream Pie.

Source: Midwest Living Magazine, April 1991

From: Sallie Austin From: Fred Towner Date: 07 Feb 96

