Title: SHRIMP&SHIITAKE POTSTICKERS W/CHILI OIL & WARM CABBAGE SA
Categories: Appetizers, Salads
Yield: 6 Servings
1/4 lb Shiitake mushrooms, stems
-removed, caps cut in half
-and then cut
Crosswise into thin slices
2    Scallions including green
-tops, minced
2 tb Chopped cilantro
1 tb Minced fresh ginger
6 tb Cooking oil, more if needed
3 tb Soy sauce
1/2 lb Medium shrimp, shelled and
-chopped
1/4 ts Salt
36    Round gyoza* or wonton
-wrappers
1    Egg white, beaten
1    Head napa cabbage, cut into
-2-inch squares
4    Carrots, cut into
-2-inch-long matchstick
-strips
2 tb Rice-wine vinegar
1 tb Vietnamese chili sauce*
2 ts Honey
2 tb Chili oil
*Available at Asian markets

From: - Boulevard * San Francisco -

1. Heat the oven to 350 B0. In a medium bowl, toss the shiitakes with
the scallions, cilantro, ginger, 1 tablespoon of the cooking oil and 1
tablespoon of the soy sauce. Spread the mixture on a small baking
sheet and bake until the mushrooms are soft, about 5 minutes.
Transfer the mushroom mixture to a medium bowl and let cool. Stir the
shrimp and salt into the mushrooms.

2. Lay a few of the gyoza or wonton wrappers on a work surface. Put
about 11/2 teaspoons of the filling in the center of each. Brush the
edges with egg white and fold in half, pleating the edges as you go.
Put the potstickers on a baking sheet lightly dusted with flour and
repeat to make
36    potstickers.

3. In a large frying pan, heat 1 tablespoon of the cooking oil over
moderately high heat. Add half the cabbage. Cook, stirring
occasionally, until lightly browned and just beginning to wilt, about
3 minutes. Transfer to a bowl. Add another tablespoon oil to the pan.
Cook the remaining cabbage. Remove. Add another tablespoon oil and
cook the carrots until they begin to brown, about 3 minutes. Add to
the cabbage.

4. In a small bowl, stir together the remaining 2 tablespoons soy
sauce, the rice-wine vinegar, Vietnamese chili sauce and honey. Add
this mixture to the cabbage and carrots and stir to combine.

5. Bring a large pot of water to a boil. Heat the remaining 2
tablespoons cooking oil in a medium frying pan. Put 6 potstickers in
a strainer and immerse them in the boiling water for 1 to 2 minutes.
Drain and add the potstickers to the hot frying pan. Be careful, the
oil may spatter. Cook the potstickers on both sides until brown,
about 2 minutes in all. Transfer the potstickers to a baking sheet
and keep them warm in a low oven while cooking the rest. Add more oil
to the pan if necessary.

6. Reheat the cabbage if necessary. Put a mound of the cabbage salad
in the center of six plates. Arrange 6 potstickers around the salad
and drizzle each plate with about a teaspoon of the chili oil.

!Make It Ahead! Nearly all the work for this can be done in advance.
The cabbage salad and the boiled potstickers can both be made a day
ahead. Then, before serving, just reheat the cabbage and saute the
potstickers for two minutes.

Either a red or a white will go nicely with the complex flavors here;
choose a simple, light-bodied bottle. One from the C F4tes-du-Rh F4ne
region of France would be good.

