Title: SHRIMP SAUCE PIQUANT
Categories: Cajun, Sauces, Fish
Yield: 8 Servings
2 tb Unsalted butter
2 1/4 c  Chopped onions
1 1/2 c  Chopped green bell peppers
3/4 c  Chopped celery
3 c  Peeled & chopped tomatoes
1 c  Canned tomato sauce
3 tb Minced jalapeno (see note)
2    Bay leaves
5 1/2 ts Ground cayenne pepper
1 1/2 ts White pepper
1 ts Ground black pepper
1 1/2 ts Minced garlic
2 1/4 c  Basic seafood stock
1 1/2 ts Dark brown sugar
3/4 ts Salt
2 lb Peeled large shrimp
4 c  Hot basic cooked rice
NOTE:  Fresh jalapenos are preferred; if you have to use pickled ones,
rinse as much vinegar from them as possible. Melt the butter in a
4-quart saucepan over high heat. Add the onions, bell peppers and
celery; saute about 2 minutes, stirring occasionally. Add the
tomatoes, tomato sauce, jalapenos, bay leaves, ground peppers and
garlic; stir well. Continue cooking about 3 minutes, stirring often
and scraping the pan bottom well. Stir in the stock, sugar and salt
and bring to a boil. Reduce heat and simmer until flavors are
married, about 20 minutes, stirring often and scraping pan bottom as
needed.  (If mixture scorches, quit stirring and pour mixture into a
clean pot, leaving the scorched ingredients in the first pan.) Add
the shrimp to the hot (or reheated) sauce and stir. Turn heat up to
high, cover pan, and bring mixture to a boil. Remove from heat. Let
sit covered for 10 minutes. (Meanwhile, heat the serving plates in a
250F oven.)  Stir, remove bay leaves, and serve immediately. To
serve, mound 1/2 cup rice in the center of each heated serving plate;
then pour about 1/2 cup sauce around the rice and arrange about 8
shrimp on top of the sauce. LAGNIAPPE:  "Piquant" to a Cajun means
"it's hot and 'hurts like a sticker in your tongue.'" If you want
less "piquant," reduce the jalapeno peppers by half.  Sauce Piquant
is enjoyed with such gusto in Louisiana that the town of Raceland has
a Sauce Piquant Festival every year dedicated to nothing but fish,
meat, fowl and seafood made with variations of this sauce. From Paul
Prudhomme's Louisiana Kitchen

