Title: SICHUAN CRISPY SKIN DUCK
Categories: Chinese, Poultry, Ceideburg 2
Yield: 4 Servings
1    Fresh Duck, 4 1/2 pounds
3    Or 4 Star Anise
2 ts Sichuan peppercorns
1    Two-inch cinnamon stick
1 1/2 tb Coarse salt
1    One-inch cube ginger,
-smashed
1    Scallion
Dark soy sauce
1 tb Dry sherry or Shaoxing wine
1 tb Cornstarch
1/2 ts Sugar
1    Egg white, beaten until
-foamy
Oil for frying
Rinse the duck and dry thoroughly.  Combine the star anise, Sichuan
peppercorns, cinnamon and salt in a skillet; heat, shaking the
skillet, until the spices begin to smoke and the salt starts to turn
a light golden color.  Cool.

Sprinkle some of this mixture into the cavity of the duck including
all the star anise and the cinnamon stick. Add the ginger and
scallion to the cavity and skewer closed. Rub the outside of the duck
with the rest of the seasoned salt mixture and hang the duck by a
string (around the neck if the duck has a head or under the wings if
not) overnight in a cool, airy place.

The next day, steam the duck on a plate in a large steamer or covered
wok for an hour to an hour and 15 minutes. Cool and rub all over with
a small amount of dark soy sauce. Wrap in foil and refrigerate until
ready to cook. (It's fine this way for a day or two.) Several hours
before cooking, take the duck out of the refrigerator and make a
light batter: Mix the sherry with the cornstarch and sugar until well
blended then stir in the egg white.  Rub thoroughly over the duck and
allow to sit.

Heat a large quantity of oil until nearly smoking in a 16-inch or
larger wok or in a large deep fryer. Immerse the duck in the oil and
fry until golden, about 15 minutes, spooning the oil continuously
over the exposed part of the duck.  You might want to turn the duck
during this time. If so, carefully remove it with a large slotted
spatula or skimmer and drain the cavity into a bowl before adding it
again to the hot oil. When the duck is done, drain it on paper
towels. Let the duck rest for 5 to 10 minutes, then carve it
Western-style or cut into pieces, Chinese-style. A suggestion is to
serve it on a bed of watercress that has been sprinkled very lightly
with sesame oil.  The juices from the duck will blend with the sesame
oil to make a sauce.

TEA-SMOKED DUCK; Follow the steps above and steam the duck only 1
hour. Before refrigerating, line a large wok with aluminum foil and
spread 1 cup of uncooked rice, 1 cup of sugar and 1/2 cup of Chinese
black tea over the bottom.  Put the duck on a metal rack suspended
over the tea mixture; cover with the wok lid. Moisten paper towels
and press them around the edge of the wok lid forming a seal.  Turn
the heat to medium high and allow the duck to smoke for 15 to 20
minutes. Turn off the heat and let the duck sit for another 45
minutes. Uncover, wrap the duck and refrigerate. Then proceed as in
the master recipe.

Posted by Stephen Ceideburg Feb 1 1990.

