Title: SICILIAN CASSATA
Categories: Desserts
Yield: 10 Servings
5    Egg whites
1 pn Of salt
1 c  Sugar
5    Egg yolks, slightly beaten
1 ts Vanilla
1 c  Sifted flour
1 ts Baking powder Filling:
2 lb Ricotta cheese
3 tb Confectioners' sugar
1 c  Mixed candied fruit, chopped
-fine
4 oz Good quality bittersweet
-chocolate, chopped fine
1/2 c  Brandy, Maraschino liqueur
-or rum Frosting:
1 c  Heavy cream, whipped
3 tb Confectioners' sugar
1 oz Bittersweet chocolate
1/2 c  Maraschino cherries
1/3 c  Pistachio nuts
Serves 10-12

Sponge cake:

Preheat oven to 375 degrees. Grease a loaf pan.

To prepare sponge cake, beat egg whites in a large bowl until soft
peaks form. Sprinkle salt and sugar gradually over whites; continue
beating until mixture is stiff. Fold in egg yolks and vanilla and
blend well.

Sift together flour and baking powder and gradually sprinkle over egg
mixture, folding in well after each addition. Pour batter into
greased loaf pan and bake until cake springs back to the touch and a
toothpick inserted into the center comes out clean (about 35
minutes). Cool on a rack in pan for 5 minutes, then unmold and
continue to cool.

To prepare filling, combine ricotta, confectioners' sugar, candied
fruit, chocolate and liquor of choice. Refrigerate until needed.

To assemble cake, grease sides of a 3 1/2 to 4 quart straight sided
bowl or pot and line bottom with a round of tinfoil. With a serrated
knife, cut cake into 1/2 inch slices. Line bottom of bowl with a
layer of slices and then line sides with cake. Spread about 1 1/2
cups of filling on top and then set two more slices of cake on top of
filling. Continue to layer in this way two more times, ending with
remaining three or four slices of cake on top. Refrigerate for 6
hours or overnight. When ready to serve, loosen sides with knife and
invert bowl onto serving plate. Remove aluminum foil and frost.

To prepare frosting, combine whipped cream and confectioners' sugar.
Spread mixture on top and sides of cake. Shave chocolate on top of
whipped cream and decorate with cherries and pistachio nuts.

Posted by: Bill McGimpsey

