Title: SIZZLING RICE HOT & SOUR SOUP
Categories: Soups/stews, China
Yield: 1 Servings
4    Dried black mushrooms
5 c  Chicken broth
1    Chicken breast half,
-skinned, boned, and cut
-into matchstick pieces
1/4 c  Slivered bamboo shoots
1/2 c  Rice vinegar
2 tb Soy sauce
1    Green onion (including top),
-cut into 2 inch slivers
1 ts Finely chopped cilantro
-(Chinese parsley)
1 ts Hot pepper sauce
1/2 ts Salt
1/2 ts White pepper
3 tb Cornstarch mixed with 1/4 C
-water
1    Egg, lightly beaten
-Vegetable oil for
-deep-frying
8    Two-inch square rice crusts
Soak mushrooms in warm water to cover for 30 minutes; drain. Cut off
and discard stems and thinly slice caps. Set aside.

Bring broth to a boil over medium-high heat in a large pot. Add
chicken and cook, stirring occasionally, for 3 minutes. Stir in
mushrooms, bamboo shoots, vinegar, soy sauce, green onion, cilantro,
hot pepper sauce, salt, and white pepper.  Return to a boil.  Add
cornstarch solution and cook, stirring, until soup thickens slightly.
Remove pot from heat and slowly drizzle in egg, stirring constantly.
Keep warm while preparing rice crusts.

Set wok in a ring stand and add oil to a depth of about 2inches. Over
high heat, bring oil to 375.  Add rice crusts, half at a time, and
cook, turning constantly, for 15 seconds or until puffed.  Lift out
and drain on paper towels.  Cook remaining crusts. Pout hot soup into
a warmed serving bowl and carry to the table. Bring hot fried rice
crusts to the table and carefully slide into the soup.

TIP: Look for rice crusts in Chinese market.  To make your own crusts:

To Make Rice Crusts: Combine 1 C medium- or short-grained rice and 1 C
water in a medium saucepan. Cover and bring to a boil over high heat.
Reduce heat to low and simmer for 25 minutes. Turn off heat and let
stand for 5 minutes.  Spread cooked rice in a 1/4" thick layer on a
greased, shallow baking pan.  Cut into 1 1/2-2" squares with a wet
knife. Bake in a 350 oven for 50 minutes or until rice squares are
firm and dry. Store rice crusts in an airtight container at room
temperature for up to 6 months.

Serves 4-6

Source: A Wok For All Seasons by Martin Yan; Copyright 1988

Date: 03 May 94 Submitted By On
From: Joyce Flory

