Title: SKILLET-BRAISED CHICKEN THIGHS WITH CHICKPEAS
Categories: Chicken, Spanish
Yield: 6 Servings
-JUDI M. PHELPS
12    Bone-in chicken thighs
-(3-1/2 to 4 lb) skinned
-and trimmed of fat
1/2 c  White flour for dredging
Salt & freshly ground pepper
-to taste
1 1/2 tb Olive oil
2 sm Dried red chile peppers;
-crumbled
2    Onions; quartered and thinly
-sliced
2    Cloves garlic;finely chopped
1 ts Paprika
1 ts Dried marjoram
2 lg Vine-ripened tomatoes;
-seeded & chopped
2 lg Green bell peppers; cored,
-seeded and thinly sliced
1 c  Reduced-sodium chicken broth
-defatted
19 oz Can chickpeas; drained and
-rinsed
2 tb Fresh parsley; chopped, for
-garnish
In a shallow dish, dredge chicken thighs in flour, shaking off the
excess. Season both sides with salt and pepper. In a large cast-iron
or nonstick skillet, heat 1 tablespoon of the oil over high heat. Add
the chicken, partially cover the pan and cook until the chicken is
nicely browned, about 2 minutes per side (it will not be fully
cooked). Remove from the skillet and set aside.

Reduce the heat to medium and add the remaining 1/2 tablespoon oil to
the skillet.  Add dried chile peppers and cook until they turn dark,
about 2 minutes.  Remove with a slotted spoon and discard. Add onions
and garlic to the skillet; cook until soft and lightly browned, 5 to
7 minutes. Add paprika and marjoram and cook, stirring, for 1 minute.
Add tomatoes, green peppers and salt and pepper to taste; cook for 5
minutes longer.

Return the chicken to the skillet, along with 1/2 cup of the chicken
broth. Cover and simmer until the chicken is tender and no longer
pink inside, 20 to 25 minutes. Add chickpeas and the remaining 1/2
cup broth; simmer for 5 to 8 minutes.  Blot off any fat that rises to
the surface with paper towels.  Taste and adjust seasonings. (The
dish can be made up to 2 days in advance and stored, covered in the
refrigerator. Reheat gently on the stovetop or in the microwave oven
before serving.) Garnish with parsley. Serves 6.

Each serving provides:  291 calories, 21 g protein, 11 g fat, 28 g
carbohydrate, 411 mg sodium, and 51 mg cholesterol. Source: The
Eating Well New Favorites Cookbook.

Shared and MM by Judi M. Phelps jphelps@shell.portal.com or
jphelps@best.com

