Title: SOLE TURBANS PROVENCALE
Categories: Fish
Yield: 6 Servings
2 lb Pacific Sole fillets
Salt
Paprika
1/2 c  Chopped onion
2    Cloves garlic; minced
2 tb Butter
1 c  Dry white wine
4    Tomatoes; peeled, seeded
-and coarsely chopped
1 c  Water
1/2 c  Chopped fresh mushrooms
1/4 c  Chopped fresh parsley
2 ts Sugar
1    Cube vegetable bouillon
1 tb Cornstarch
2 tb Cold water
MMMMM----------------------BULGUR STUFFING---------------------------
1 1/2 c  Water
1    Chicken bouillon cube
1/8 ts Salt
1/3 c  Cracked wheat bulgur
1 ts Butter
13 c  Chopped mushrooms
1/4 c  Chopped celery
2 tb Chopped onion
Thaw fillets if frozen.  Rinse fillets with cold water; pat dry with
paper towels.  Sprinkle each fillet lightly with salt and paprika.
Spoon small mound of Bulgur Stuffing onto center of each fillet. Fold
ends toward center, over stuffing, to form turban. Secure with wooden
toothpick; set aside.  In large skillet, over medium heat, saute
onion and garlic in butter until onion is tender but not brown. Add
wine. Stir in tomatoes, 1 cup water, mushrooms, parsley, sugar and
bouillon; bring to boil. Add turbans; reduce heat.  Cover and simmer
for 15-20 minutes, or until fillets flake easily when tested with a
fork. Transfer turbans to warm serving platter, reserving poaching
liquid.  Cover turbans and keep warm. Bring poaching liquid to boil,
uncovered. Continue cooking until liquid is slightly reduced. Combine
cornstarch and cold water, blend well. Add to reduced liquid,
stirring constantly until mixture is thickened. Spoon sauce over
fillets.  Garnish with sliced mushrooms. Makes 6-8 servings.

BULGUR STUFFING:

In small saucepan, bring water, bouillon and salt to boil; add bulgur.
Reduce heat; cover and simmer for 20 minutes, or until water is
absorbed and bulgur is tender. In small skillet, melt butter. Add
vegetables and saute until onion is tender but not brown. Stir in
cooked bulgur. Makes approximately 1-1/2 cups stuffing, or enough for
2 pounds of fish fillets.

A West Coast Fisheries Development Foundation recipe.

