Title: SOLE STEAMED ON A BED OF CEYLON TEA
Categories: Fish
Yield: 4 Servings
1 1/2 lb Sole, flounder or fluke*
1 1/2 tb Ceylon tea, loose
Salt
1/2 tb Unsalted butter
2 sm Limes; peel/seed/dice
Ceylon Tea Butter Sauce
* Use 2 Dover sole, skinned and filleted to give 8 fillets; OR 4
flounder fillets (6 to 7 ounces each), cut in half lengthwise along
the center line of the fillet

"Maniere imbued sole with the exotic woody scent of Ceylon tea by
steaming the fish on a bed of the leaves. (Loose tea leaves will give
more flavor than tea bags.) A rich, warmly colored butter sauce, made
with a Ceylon tea-infused vinegar, completes the movement, and a
garnish of a sparkling dice of lime cuts the righness of the sauce."

Make the butter sauce; set aside in a warm place, and cover to keep
warm.

Cut a double layer of cheesecloth hat is twice as long as the steamer
rack. Lay the cheesecloth on the steamer rack so that half of the
cheesecloth covers the rack and the other half falls outside the
steam. Sprinkle the tea over the cheesecloth in the steamer and fold
the outer half of the cheesecloth over the tea to enclose it.

Fold each fillet in half, skinned side in. Sprinkle with salt and
place in a single layer on the cheesecloth on the steamer rack. Place
over simmering water, cover, and steam until tender, 4 to 5 minutes.

Just before the fish is cooked, melt the butter in a frying pan over
high heat. Add the lime and saute just to warm through, about 30
seconds. Remove from the heat.

To serve, divide the fillets among four plates. Sprinkle the lime
over the fish and spoon the sauce over.

Serve the fish with boiled potatoes or a simple rice pilaf; other
vegetables muddy the delicate flavors of fish and sauce. If you have
deep plates, spoon all of the sauce onto the plates so that the fish
luxuriates in it. If not, spoon some sauce over each fillet and serve
the rest in a sauceboat.

Source: "Cuisine a la Vapeur: The Art of Cooking with Steam" by
Jacques Maniere; translated by Stephanie Lyness

