Title: SOONDAY (KOREAN STUFFED SAUSAGE)
Categories: Sausage, Korean
Yield: 6 Servings
1    Yard small beef intestine
2 c  Rice, cooked but still firm
2    Garlic cloves; crushed
1 sl Fresh ginger, 1", crushed
1 ts Salt
1/2 ts Pepper; black or white
1 tb Korean sesame oil
1 ts Sesame seeds; crushed
5    Scallions; chopped
2 c  Beef or pork blood
"In a number of cultures cooks stuff the small intestine of the cow,
sheep or pig and boil, bake or roast it. In Tunisia, this is known as
"merguez", in Eastern Europe as "kishke", in Indonesia, it is the
spectacular "usus" in coconut milk. The "soonday" of Korea is
entirely different.

It originated in the cold climate of mountainous North Korea where the
intestines of the wild mountain pigs were used. Now it's prepared all
over the country and brought in large buckets to the public markets
of Pusan, Kyongu, Seoul, Taegu and elsewhere. This sausage stuffing
is made of rice, seasonings and beef or pork blood (or substitute 8
ounces canned tomato puree).

1. Clean the intestine as received from your butcher once again.
Rinse well in cold water, then soak in lightly salted water for 1
hour; this makes the intestine firm and easier to handle. Tie up one
end firmly with cotton string.

2. Prepare the stuffing. Mix the cooked rice, garlic, ginger, salt,
pepper, sesame oil, sesame seeds, scallions and either blook or
tomato puree. Loosely stuff the intestine either by machine or by a
funnel ~- forcing the stuffing along the entire length. Do not fill
too tightly since the intestine may split in cooking when the rice
expands. Tie the open end firmly.

The intestine may also be stuffed as individual sausages in which
case it is cut into the desired lengths, tied, filled and tied again.

3. Place the soonday in a large pan, curling it around like a snail.
Cover it with lightly salted water and bring to a boil. Then turn to
low and cook uncovered for 3/4 hour. At the end of this time, insert
a skewer in the soonday to test for doneness. As when testing a cake,
if the skewer is dry and the soonday is firm to pressure, it is done.

Cut diagonally into 1/4-inch thick slices and serve warm or at room
temperature (warm is better). Serve on festive occasions especially
after the harvest of rice, cabbage (or whatever is being grown) with
your favorite Korean dip.

Serves 6 to 8.

Source: "The Korean Kitchen" by Copeland Marks

