Title: SOPA DE ABECHUELAS~ ROYALE~ ESPESYAL (THE SPE
Categories: Soups, Beans
Yield: 12 Servings
2 lb Pork Cubes
2 lb Red Kidney Beans
(This works fine with
White Kidney Beans
And Great with Lentils)
4    Red or White Onions
-Whole
6 lg Tomatoes
6 md Sized Potatoes - Cubes
2 lg Chorizo de Bilbao
(if this is not available
Any Spanish Sausage with
Lard will do), cut into
Thin slices
1    Ham Bone and/or
1/2 c  Ham Scraps
1 c  Olive Oil
1 cl Garlic
Vinegar
Salt & Pepper to Taste
Procedure:

Soak the beans in water overnight. Drain. Put in a Large Pot
with the Pork Cubes, Onions, Tomatoes, Potatoes, Sausages the Ham
Bone and/or Ham Scraps and add water about 3/4 full. (Use a 2 Gallon
Pot or at least 1 1/2 gl. to have enough liquid in it). Bring to a
boil and once it starts to boil bring down the heat to simmer until
the beans are tender.
In a sauce pan, saute the Garlic  in Olive Oil. When Garlic is
brown add the rest of the  Olive Oil and a few halved tomatoes and
bring to a slight boil. Add this to your beans and season to taste
with Salt, Pepper and a little Vinegar. Continue to let the Beans
simmer for a few minutes before serving.
If you cannot get good and juicy tomatoes you may use 1can/450
g. of Tomato Sauce and add this to your sauted Garlic and bring to a
boil. You need not add Vinegar since the Tomato sauce normally has
vinegar already. If you are using Tomato Paste you must add a little
vinegar.
Serve hot with bread and wine. (This goes perfectly well with
Garlic Bread and Red Wine)
This can serve an army. However I prefer to take the left-over
where the beans has already soaked the sauce and the flavor of the
sausage and the ham. Just keep the leftover in your Frig and re-heat
before serving. You may opt to let the whole dish cool down and store
in your refrigerator for a day or two. Reheat it and serve hot.
I have never bothered to look at the calorie count of this dish
but I suppose it is very high. But then there is always a price for
good food. Have a happy meal! DDD ED MONTALVAN

