Title: SOUFFLEED ACORN SQUASH
Categories: Vegetables
Yield: 4 Servings
2 sm (3/4 pound) acorn squash
4 ts Butter
4 ts Brown sugar
1/4 ts Ground cinnamon
Grating of fresh nutmeg
1 lg Egg separated
Salt
Freshly ground pepper
Preheat oven to 400 F. Wash outside of squash well to rid it of any
grit. Using a sharp knife, cut a very thin slice off of both ends of
the squash so that, when presented on a plate, each half stays stable
on the dish and doesn't wobble. Cut the squash in half and with a
spoon, scoop out the seeds and discard them.

Place the halved squash, skin side up, in 1/2 inch of water in a
baking dish so that the flesh steams and remains moist while it
bakes. Bake for 30 minutes.

Remove the baking dish from the oven. With a large spoon and tongs,
turn the squash cut side up and place 1 tbsp. of butter in each half.
Return the squash to the oven and continue baking for another 30
minutes or until squash is tender. Using tongs, very carefully remove
each squash half from the baking pan. As you remove them, pour the
melted butter from the center of each into a mixing bowl.

Carefully so as not to pierce the soft shell, spoon out the cooked
squash from each and place it in a bowl. Make sure to leave some
flesh all around the inside of the cavity of each half. Do not pierce
the skin or the souffle mixture will run out.

In a blender or food processor, puree the squash (in two batches if
necessary to prevent the mixture from ``exploding'' from the heat as
you puree it) and reserved melted butter with sugar, 1/2 tsp salt,
1/4 tsp pepper, and egg yolk. Pour this into a mixing bowl. In
another bowl, whip the egg white with a pinch of salt until stiff.
Fold into squash mixture. Pour equal amounts of the souffle mixture
into each hollowed-out cavity and bake on a baking sheet for 25
minutes or until the tops are nice and brown and begin to crack.

Serve in the squash shells as an appetizer or side dish.

: hammonds@riacs.edu (Steve Hammond)
Recipe By

From: 	owner-Mm-Recipes@idiscover.Net O

