Title: SOUREST SOURDOUGH
Categories: Breadmaker
Yield: 1 Servings
-Gaye Levy ** DTXT63A
-Revised on 9/17/92
1 1/4 c  Sourdough starter
1/2 c  Water
3 c  Bread flour
1 tb Olive oil
2 tb Sugar
1 ts Salt
2 ts Yeast
Set starter out on counter and bring to room temperature. Feed as you
normally do and allow to become foamy and active. This will take 8 to
12 hours.

Put all ingredients in the B/M and set on the dough cycle. When the
cycle is complete, remove dough and squeeze out gases. Cover with a
damp towel and let it rest for 20 or 30 minutes. (This rest period
makes the dough more pliable.)

Sprinkle corn meal on a board and shape dough into two cylindrical
loaves. Place loaves on a cornmeal covered baking sheet or in a
special "baguette pan" that can be purchased at a kitchen store.
Cover again with the damp towel and put in the refer for 12 to 24
hours. Take dough out of the refer, sprinkle with water, and let it
sit out until the loaves are fully risen. (They will usually rise a
little in the refer, too.)

Spray again with water then bake at 375 for 30 minutes or until brown
and crusty. If you want a really crusty bread, spray the loaf with
water every five minutes while baking. This harder to describe than
it is to do ... and the results are worth it!

PLEASE NOTE: Depending on the temperature, humidity, and the whim of
the starter, the bread will vary from batch to batch. Sometimes it is
very sour and dense while other times it is mildly sour and fluffy
inside. Each batch is unique...but it is always good. I found that
using the special pan helped the baguettes keep their shape. The pan
is well worth the fifteen bucks. You can also vary the flavor of the
bread by using more or less sugar or by substituting 1 TBL of vinegar
for 1 TBL of water. Another variation is to use flat beer instead of
water in either the recipe or when feeding the starter.  (Be sure to
separate your starter into two batches first so that you do not
contaminate the orignal pot.)

Everytime I share this recipe, I get notes saying this is the beat
sourdough ever! 05/31 08:59 pm LORELI Loafing and Laughing in Ocala,
FL
FOOD AND WINE BB TOPIC: BREADS BY MACHINE TIME: 05/31 9:21 PM

LORELI AGUDA   (WSKD49A) FROM: LORELI AGUDA (WSKD49A)
TO:
SUBJECT: MM:BREADMAKER MEGA

