Title: SOURDOUGH (TC) PIZZA DOUGH
Categories: Breadmaker, Breads
Yield: 1 Crust
1 ts Active dry yeast
2 c  Bread flour
1/4 ts Salt
1 tb Olive oil
1 c  Sourdough starter
2 T  Water, if and as necessary
Watch the dough carefully and adjust the amount of water or flour if
necessary. Top with your favorite toppings.

Directions for Thin Crust doughs: Preheat oven to 500F for at least 30
minutes [I turn on the oven at the same time that I start the bread
machine ~-OLS] if using a pan and at least 1 hour if using a stone.
Grease the pizza pan with olive oil or spray it with a nonstick
vegetable spray. A light dusting of cornmeal to further prevent
sticking is optional - it usually adds a little crunch and flavor to
the dough. If using a peel and stone, dust the peel to prevent the
dough from sticking so that you may easily slide it off the peel and
onto the stone. While the dough is rising, prepare your topping and
grate your cheese; set aside. After the dough has risen 1 time, roll
it out on a lightly floured or cornmeal-covered (I prefer cornmeal)
countertop or handstretch the dough into a circle. Pick up the dough
and turn it over and roll or stretch from the center outwards until a
circle is formed. It may never be a perfect circle but that adds to
the uniqueness of your homemade pizza. Dust the dough only as needed
to prevent sticking with either flour or cornmeal. The thinner you
roll or stretch the dough, the thinner the crust. A thinly rolled
dough which does not rise a second time (after rolling) will give you
the thinnest, crispiest crust. Lay the dough on your prepared pizza
pan or peel. Pull the dough up around the edges of the pan so that a
slight lip is formed, and crimp the edges. For a thin, crispy crust,
place your toppings on the pizza and bake immediately. For a thicker,
chewier crust, allow the dough to rise for 15 to 30 minutes. The
longer the rise, the thicker the dough. Place your toppings on after
this second rising and then bake. The toppings should be placed in
such a way that the rim is left unadorned (about 1/4 to 1/2 inch
border is good). This prevents spillage when baking and gives a nice
piece of crust to hold when eating. Place the pizza on the bottom
rack of the oven or directly on the pizza stone and bake until the
crust is golden brown and the cheese is melted. If the oven was
properly preheated, it should only take 5 to 10 minutes to bake a
thin crust pizza.

PRECOOKED SHELLS - Make extra pizza dough, roll it out and place it
on the pan, screen or peel. Brush it with olive oil (or melted garlic
butter) and pierce the dough every 1/2 inch or so with a fork (to
prevent bubbles) [Note: The poking part is no joke, and not an
option, unless you *want* to pull a big puffy balloon out of the
oven. It's not as vital when you're topping the dough and putting it
directly in the oven. --OLS] Bake the shell in a preheated 500F oven
for about 5 minutes. Allow to cool, stack with waxed paper in between
[foil works fine for me], wrap it well in plastic and freeze for up
to 1 month. To use, remove dough from freezer (it is not necessary to
thaw but you may), brush dough with oil to prevent sogginess [I
haven't noticed any trouble without the oil], top as desired and bake
in a preheated 450F oven for 15 to 20 minutes.

If you want a very thin crust and end up with excess dough, simply
form it into bread sticks, brush with a little water and sprinkle
some kosher salt, poppy seeds or sesame seeds on top. Bake them right
beside your pizza. [Other options that I've tried with success: salt
and vinegar, garlic powder, and/or a little cayenne --OLS]

Nutritional analysis per 1/8 recipe: 126 calories, .6 g fat, 4.6 g
protein, 25.5 g carbohydrate, 0 mg cholesterol, 72.9 mg sodium.

Opal Luna Saturnyne #22 @10000 From _The Best Pizza is Made at home_
by Donna Rathmell German

