Title: SOUR CREAM BLACK FUDGE LOAF CAKE
Categories: Miamiherald, Desserts
Yield: 12 Servings
MMMMM------------------------FOR THE CAKE-----------------------------
1/4 c  Chocolate bread crumbs;
(mix enough unsweetened
-cocoa powder into fine dry
-bread crumbs to give the
-mixture a medium brown
-colour
1 c  Plus 3 tbs sifted unbleached
-flour
3 tb Unsweetened cocoa powder
-(Preferably Dutch-process)
1 tb Baking powder
1/2 ts Salt
3 1/2 oz Semisweet chocolate
2 oz Unsweetened chocolate
2 tb Dry instant expresso or
-coffee
2 tb Boiling water
4 oz Unsalted butter; room temp
1 ts Vanilla extract
1 c  Light brown sugar, firmly
-packed
2    Eggs
1/2 c  Sour cream
MMMMM-----------------------FOR THE ICING----------------------------
6 oz Semisweer chocolate
pn Salt
1/2 c  Sour cream
Adjust a rack one-third up from the bottom of the oven and preheat
the oven to 350 degrees F.  Butter an 8-cup0 loaf pan. Dust the pan
with chocolate bread crumbs, tap over paper to remove excess crumbs,
and set aside. Place both of the chocolates in the top of a double
boiler over warm water on moderate heat until the chocolate is almost
melted. Remove from top of the double boiler and stir until melted
and snmooth. Set aside. In a small cup, stir in expresso, or coffee
granules with the boiling water, and set aside. In a large bowl of an
electric mixer, beat the butter until soft. Beat in the vanillaand
sugar then the eggs, one at a time. Add the chocolate and beat to
mix. On low speed, beat in half of the sifted dry ingredients, then
the sour cream and expresso or coffee, and finally the remaining dry
ingredients, scraping the sides of the bowl as necessary. Beat only
until smooth. Turn batter into the prepared pan. Smooth the top. Bake
for about 1 hour and 5 minutes, or until a cake tester gently
inserted in the middle comes out dry. Remove from the oven and let
stand 10 minutes. While standing the cake will settle down slightly,
but it will beok. Cover the pan with a rack, turn the pan and rack
upside down, remove the pan, and leet cake stand upside down to cool.
Make the icing: Place teh chocolate in the top of a small double
boiler and stir until melted ans smooth. Stir in the salt and sour
cream. Carefully transfer the cooled cake to a serving board or flat
tray.  To keep the try clean while frosting, slip waxed paper strips
under the cake.
Spread the icing over the top and sides of the cake. Remove strips
of wax paper. If the cake has been frozen or refrigerated, bring to
room temperature before serving.

Nutritional info per serving: 381 cal; 6g pro, 46g carb, 23g
fat(49%), .4g fiber, 65mg chol, 239mg sodium

Source: Miami Herald, 12/28/95 formatted by Lisa Crawford

