Title: SOUTHWEST SALAD WITH BLACK BEANS & CORN
Categories: Miamiherald, Vegetarian, Vegan, Salads
Yield: 6 To 8 serve
MMMMM-----------------FORMATTED BY LISA CRAWFORD----------------------
2 c  Dried black beans or
4 c  Canned black beans; drained
3 cl Garlic; minced
1/2 c  Heaping red onion
1 md Red bell pepper; cored,
-seeded and minced
1 md Carrot; minced (opt)
1 ts Salt
1/2 c  Extra virgin olive oil
1/2 c  Fresh lime juice(3-4 limes)
2    To 3 ts whole cumin seeds
1/2 c  Minced fresh cilantro
1/2 c  Minced fresh parsley
1/2 c  Minced fresh basil
1 ts Crushed red pepper
Freshly ground black pepper
3    To 4 corn tortillas (opt)
Soak the beans for at least 4 hours, but preferably overnight. Drain
off any excess soaking water, place the soaked beans in a soup pot
and cover with fresh water. Bring just to a boil, then cover abd turn
the heat way down.  Cook at a very slow simmer until beans are
tender, 1 1/4 to 1 1/2 hours.  Check form time to time to be sure
there is enough water and add more if necessary. When the beans are
cooked, drain them well. Then rinse thoroughly in cold water and
drain them well again. In a large bowl, combine beans, corn, garlic,
onion, bell pepper, carrot if using, salt, olive oil and lime juice.
Roast the whole cumin seeds in a cast-iron skillet over medium heat,
stirring several minutes. Add the toasted seeds to the salad, along
with the cilantro, parsley, basil and red and black pepper to taste
and mix thoroughly but gently. If using tortillas, lightly brush both
sides with olive oil and cut tortillas into strips approximately 1/4
inch wide and 1 1/2 inches long. Cook the strips slightly by tasoting
them in a 350-degree oven or toaster oven for about 2 minutes or in a
heavy skillet over medium heat for 2-3 minutes. They should be partly
crispy and pastly chewy.  Stir these into the salad shortly before
serving or scatter them on top as a garnish.

Nutritional info per serving: 455 cal; 18g pro, 58g carb, 19g
fat(36%), 9.6g fiber, 371mg sodium

Source: Still Life With Menu by Mollie Katzen The Complete Vegetarian,
Miami Herald 11/2/95

