Title: SOUTHERN FRENCH VEGETABLE SOUP (SOUPE AU PIST
Categories: Soups, French
Yield: 12 Servings
-JUDI M. PHELPS
MMMMM--------------------------THE SOUP-------------------------------
1/4 c  Extra virgin olive oil
2    Leeks; washed, white and
-tender green parts, sliced
1 lg Onion; coarsely chopped
3 md Carrots; chopped
1 c  Dried white beans; (navy
-or canellini), soaked for
-2 hours and cooked until
-tender, about 2-1/2 cups
-cooked
4 md Zucchini; cut into 1/4-inch
-slices
2 qt Chicken or vegetable broth
OR water
1    Bouquet garni*
1 c  Miniature dried macaroni;
-ditalini or other small
-pasta
1/2 lb Green beans; preferably
-small French type, cut
-into 1-inch lengths
Salt and pepper to taste
Slices of French bread;
-toasted
MMMMM-------------------------THE PISTOU------------------------------
8    Garlic cloves; peeled
2 lg Bunches fresh basil; stems
-removed, 2 cups tightly
-packed leaves
2 ts Coarse salt
2 c  Parmesan cheese; finely
-grated
2 md Tomatoes; peeled, seeded,
-and coarsely chopped
1 1/2 c  Extra virgin olive oil
*A bouquet garni is a small bundle of herbs that are tied with a
string or placed in cheesecloth so the herbs do not fall apart or
float around in the soup. A traditional bouquet garni contains only
thyme, parsley, and bay leaves.  It is best made with fresh herbs and
tied in a bundle with a short piece of string. Use about 8-10 thyme
sprigs, 1 large bunch of parsley, 1 bay leaf.  If you don't have
fresh thyme use 1 tsp. dried thyme.

To make the soup base, heat the olive oil in a 4-quart pot over medium
heat.  Add leeks, onion, and carrots. Stir until the leeks and onion
turn translucent about 10 minutes. Add beans, zucchini broth, and
bouquet garni. Bring the soup to a boil, then simmer on low heat for
about 5 minutes, and add the pasta and green beans. Continue
simmering for about 10 minutes until the vegetables and macaroni have
softened. Don't season the soup until you've added the pistou, which
is very salty. If you're not serving the soup right away, chill it as
quickly as you can so the vegetables don't overcook.

PISTOU:  Put the tomatoes and then the rest of the ingredients except
the olive oil in the blender.  (The tomatoes go in first to provide
liquid to get the mixture moving around.) Blend at high speed for
about 1 minute, until the mixture turns into a paste. Transfer the
pistou to a mixing bowl and stir in the olive oil. (The olive oil
must be added by hand, or it will turn bitter.)

At the Last Minute:  To serve, whisk half of the pistou into the hot
soup, then season with salt if needed and pepper. Immediately ladle
the soup into hot bowls.  Serve the French bread toasts in a basket.
Pass the remaining pistou at the table in a bowl and let guests help
themselves. Source: Splendid Soups by James Peterson.

Shared and MM by Judi M. Phelps. jphelps@slip.net or jphelps@best.com

