Title: SOUTHWEST FRIED RICE WITH ANCHO CHILES
Categories: Mexican, Side dish, Jaw
Yield: 4 Servings
4    Eggs
1    Red bell pepper
1    Zucchini
2    Ears white corn
4    Whole green onions
1 c  Pecan halves
4 c  Cold cooked white rice
3 tb Cooking oil
1/2 c  Cilantro
MMMMM-------------------------SEASONING------------------------------
3    Cloves garlic, finely minced
MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
2    Dried ancho chiles
1/3 c  Tomato sauce
1/4 c  Rice wine or sherry
3 tb Oyster sauce
2 tb Dark sesame oil
1 tb Brown sugar
1 tb White wine vinegar
2 ts SW style or asian chile
Sauce
Advance preparation: Preheat the oven to 325. In a small bowl, beat
the eggs with a fork and refrigerate. Discard the seeds and stem from
the bell pepper, and then cut the pepper into 1/4 inch cubes. Discard
the stem ends from the zucchini, and then cut the zucchini on a sharp
diagonal into 1/4 inch thick slices. Overlap the zucchini slices and
cut into 1/4 inch matchstick pieces, place the pieces together and
cut into 1/4 inch cubes. Discard the corn husks and cut the kernels
off the cob. Cut the green onions on a sharp diagonal into 1/4 inch
long pieces. In a small bowl, combine all the vegetables and
refrigerate. Toast the pecans in the preheated oven for 15 minutes,
and then set aside. Place the cold cooked rick in a plastic bag and
squeeze the bag with fingers to separate the rice into individual
grains. Divide the cooking oil, putting 1 T in one small container
and 2 T in another. Set aside the cilantro. In a small container; set
aside the garlic. Place the ancho chiles in a small bowl and cover
the chiles with boiling water. When the chiles soften, mince the
chiles finely. In a small bowl, combine the minced chiles with the
remaining sauce ingredients.

Final cooking steps: Chop the fresh cilantro and set aside. Place a
wok over the highest heat. When the wok becomes very hot, add 1 T of
the oil to the center. Roll the oil around the wok and when the oil
gives off just a wisp of smoke, add the eggs. Stir and toss the eggs
until they are softly scrambled, then slide them onto a plate.
Immediately return the wok to the highest heat. Add the remaining
cooking oil and the garlic. Stir-fry the garlic, and soon as it turns
white, about 5 seconds, add the vegetables. Stir and toss the
vegetables until the peppers brighten, about 1 minute. Stir the
sauce. Add the sauce, scrambled eggs, and pecans to the wok. Stir and
toss all the ingredients until they are mixed evenly and the rice is
thoroughly reheated, about 3 minutes. Stir in the cilantro. Taste and
adjust the seasonings.

