Title: SOUTHWEST CORN CHOWDER
Categories: Corn, Soups and s, Texas, Southwester
Yield: 6 Servings
6 lg Ears sweet corn
1 ts Corn oil
2    Onions -- cut in medium
Dice
2    Cloves garlic -- chopped
1 1/2    Poblano peppers -- seeded
And diced
2    Serrano peppers -- seeded
And chopped
3 c  Chicken stock
2 c  Heavy cream
Salt -- to taste
1 tb Lime juice -- approximately
1 sm Baking potato -- peeled and
Diced
1/2 c  Jicama -- peeled and diced
1/4    Red bell pepper -- seeded
And diced
1/4    Yellow bell pepper -- seeded
And diced
1 tb Fresh cilantro -- finely
Chopped
Shuck corn, remove silk, and cut kernels from cob. Set aside 3/4 cup.
Heat oil in a heavy saucepan over medium heat. Stir in reamining corn
kernels and onions. Saute for about 10 minutes or until onions are
soft and juices have cooked down.  *Do not brown.* Add garlic, 1
chopped poblano, 1 chopped serrano chili, and chicken stock. Bring to
a boil, stirring frequently. Reduce heat and simmer for 20 minutes.
Stir in cream. Return soup to a simmer and cook for about 5 minutes
for intil slightly reduced. Remove from heat.  Pour soup into a
blender and blend until very smooth. Season to taste with salt and
lilme juice. Set aside and keep warm. Fill a large pot three-quarters
full with water.  Bring to a boil. Season lightly with salt. Add
potato and cook for 2 minutes. Add reserved 3/4 cup corn kernels and
cook for 2 minutes. Add jicama, bell peppers, and remaining diced
poblano and serrano chilies; cook for 2 minutes. Drain vegetables and
immediately fold into warm soup. Pour equal portions into six warm
soup bowls. Sprinkle an equal amount of chopped cilantro on each and
serve immediately. The entire soup may be made up to one day in
advance. Reheat, but *do not cook,* just before serving.

Chef's Notes:  Dean Fearing is the executive chef of The Mansion on
Turtle Creek in Dallas, Texas.  __The Mansion on Turtle Creek
Cookbook__ , edited by Dotty Griffith, 1987.

: Dean Fearing of The Mansion on Turtle Creek
Recipe By

From: Caitlin Davis Carlson, Seaview,wa

