Title: SPAGHETTI SQUASH & ZUCCHINI CASSEROLE
Categories: Vegetarian, Casseroles
Yield: 6 Servings
1    Spaghetti squash
(if more than 2 lbs -- use
Half)
1 md Zucchini grated
1 c  Tomato sauce OR
6 oz Can tomato paste +
2 oz Water
1 ts Finely cut fresh basil
1 ts Dried crushed oregano
1 ts Garlic powder or
4    Cloves finely chopped fresh
1/4 ts Ground black pepper
1/4 ts Salt (optional)
Serrano chili sauce or
Other hot sauce to taste
(optional)
(This dish requires 20 minutes of baking, but the first part of the
preparation of the spaghetti squash can be done stovetop or
microwave.) Cut spaghetti squash in half length-wise. Carefuly scrape
out seeds, but do not cut into the body of the squash. While the
squash is cooking you can prepare the other ingredients.

Stovetop: place half squash cut side down in a pot with 2" (5 cm)
water, cover and boil for 20 minutes. Microwave: place half squash in
a dish with 1/4 cup water, cover with plastic wrap and cook at high
(>600 watts) for 7 minutes.

Squash is half cooked. With fork, scrape out squash to produce
spaghetti-like strands. A thin, hard shell will be left.

In a large bowl, add spaghetti squash, tomato sauce, grated zucchini
and spices. Mix well and spoon into squash shell (or casserole dish),
top with nutritional yeast, a little more garlic powder (and, if
desired, non-fat grated parmesan cheese).

Bake at 350 degrees F. (175 C.) for 20 minutes or until done.

Serves 6. Each 8 oz (.25 l.) serving has 66 calories, less than 0.25
g fat.

(This recipe was adapted from a sticker attached to a spaghetti
squash by Linden Associated Growers, Linden, CA.) This took about 8
minutes of working time, 7 minutes of microwaving while getting the
rest ready, and then waiting 20 minutes while it baked. Smell and
taste was delicious.

I served it with brown rice and fresh non-fat French Bread. It would
be an ideal filling for a pita pocket or tortilla.

What to do with the other half of the squash?  Stick it in the
refrigerator for a few days, then prepare it as shown above, except
microwave for 10 minutes or boil for 30, and then scrape it out and
serve topped with your favorite spaghetti sauce. kwvegan vegan

:
Recipe By

