Title: SPAGHETTI ALLA CARBONARA
Categories: Pasta
Yield: 1 Batch
1/2 lb Pancetta or bacon
2 tb Olive oil
1 tb Butter
4    Garlic cloves, peeled
-and lightly crushed
1/4 c  White wine, dry
Salt
1 lb Thin spaghetti
3    Eggs
1/4 c  Peccorino romano cheese,
-freshly grated
1/2 c  Parmesan cheese,
-freshly grated
Black pepper,
-freshly ground
2 tb Parsley, chopped fine
Cut the pancetta or bacon into thin strips.

Put the oil, butter and crushed garlic into a saucepan or small saute
pan and turn on the heat to medium-high. When the garlic becomes
colored a deep gold, remove and discard it.

Put the pancetta or bacon into the pan and saute until it begins to be
crisp at the edges. Add the wine and let it boil away for a minute or
two; then turn off the heat.

In a large pot, bring about 4-5 quarts water to a boil. Add about 2-3
T salt, and when the water returns to a boil, put in the spaghetti.

Take the bowl from which you'll be serving the spaghetti later, and
into it break the three eggs. Beat them lightly, then mix into them
both grated cheeses, a liberal grinding of pepper, and the parsley.

When the spaghetti is tender but firm to the bite, drain it and put
it into the serving bowl with the egg-and-cheese mixture. toss
rapidly and thoroughly until it is well-coated.

Reheat the pancetta or bacon quickly over high heat, then pour the
entire contents of the pan over the spaghetti. Toss again thoroughly
and serve immediately.

NOTES:

*  Spaghetti with raw eggs and Italian bacon -- While there are
innumerable minor variations in the way people make this celebrated
Roman dish, there are really only two substantially different schools
of thought. One maintains that pancetta, a mild, cured, unsmoked
Italian bacon, is the only correct bacon to use. The other school
insists on the smoked American variety. Both are good, and both are
popular in Italy, but the version I prefer is the one with pancetta.
The flavor of smoke is not usually associated with Italian food;
certainly hardly ever outside of Alto Adige, a German-speaking region
in the North that was once part of Austria. In this dish, I find that
smoked bacon adds a sharpness that wearies the palate after the first
bite-fulls. Try it both ways and decide for yourself.

: Difficulty:  moderate.
: Time:  20 minutes.
: Precision:  Approximate measurement OK.

: Katherine Rives Albitz
: Hewlett-Packard, Ft.  Collins, Colorado, USA
: hplabs!hpfcla!hpcnof!k_albitz

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

