Title: SPANISH POTATO OMELET (TORTILLA A LA ESPA¥OLA
Categories: Spanish, Potatoes, Eggs
Yield: 1 Servings
1 c  Olive oil, or a mixture of o
1 x  Vegetable oil
4 ea Large potatoes, peeled and c
1 x  Slices
1 ea Large onion, thinly sliced
1 x  Coarse salt
4 ea Large eggs
Heat the oil in an 8 or 9- inch skillet and add the portato slices
one at a time so they don't stick togeather. Alternate layers of
potato and onion slices and salt the layers lightly. Cook slowly over
medium heat (the potatoes will really "boil" in the oil rather than
fry), lifting and turning the potatoes occasionally, until they are
tender but not brown. The potatoes should remain separated, not in a
"cake". Drain the potatoes in a colander, reserving about 3
tablespoons of the oil.(the onion and potato give the oil a wonderful
flavor, so save the rest for some other use.) Wipe out the skillet,
scraping off any stuck particles. (If this is difficult to do, wash
the skillet. It will be used again to set the omelet and must be
completely clean to avoid sticking.) Meanwhile, in a large bowl beat
the eggs with a fork until they are slightly foamy. Salt to taste.
Add the potatoes to the egg, pressing down with a pancake turner so
that they are completely covered by the egg. Let the mixture sit for
15 minutes. Heat two tablespoons of the reserved oil in the skillet
until it reaches the smoking point. (It must be very hot or the eggs
will stick.) Add the potato and egg mixture, spreading it out rapidly
in the skillet with the aid of a pancake turner. Lower the heat to
medium high and shake the pan often to prevent sticking. When the
eggs begin to brown underneath, invert a plate of the same size over
the skillet and flip the omelet onto the plate. Add about 1
talbespoon more oil to the pan, then slide the omelet back into the
skillet to brown on the other side. Lower the heat to medium and flip
the omelet two ot three more times (this helps to give the omelet a
good shape while it continues to cook), cooking briefly on each side.
It should be juicy within. Transfer to a platter and cool, then cut
in thin wedges or into 1 - 1 1/2- inch squares that can be picked up
with toothpicks [May be prepared ahead]. Fat grams per serving:
Approx. Cook Time: :45 From "Tapas: the Little Dishes of Spain", by
Penelope Casas

