Title: BRISKET WITH SWEET POTATOES
Categories: Beef, Main course, Pressure co
Yield: 4 Servings
2 tb Oil or chicken fat
3 1/2 lb Boneless beef brisket
2    Stalks celery -- finely
Chopped
2 lg Carrots -- finely chopped
1 lg Onion -- finely chopped
2 c  Beef stock or boullion
1 c  Water
1 1/4 ts Cinnamon
1/4 ts Nutmeg
1/8 ts Allspice
1/2 c  Apple cider (up to 1 cup)
2 lb Sweet potatoes, peeled --
Cut in 1/2" slices
1 1/2 lb Parsnips, peeled -- cut in
1    " chunks
1 c  Pitted prunes -- coarsely
Chopped
Salt and pepper to taste
Heat 2 tablespoons oil in the cooker.  Over high heat, brown the meat
well on both sides, lifting it up frequently with tongs or spatula to
prevent sticking. Add additional fat if needed. Set aside. (Don't be
concerned if the brisket has to be squeezed against the sides of the
pot; it will shrink considerably during cooking.) In the oil
remaining in the cooker, saute the celery, carrot, and onion for 3
minutes, stirring occasionally and taking care to scrape up any
browned bits of meat or vegetable sticking to the bottom of the pot.
Add the beef stock, water, cinnamon, nutmeg, and allspice.  Submerge
the rack into this mixture, and place the meat on it with the fat
side facing up. Lock the lid in place and over high heat bring to
high pressure.  Adjust the heat to maintain high pressure and cook
for 55 minutes.  Let the pressure drop naturally, about 10 - 15
minutes. Remove the lid, tilting it away from you to allow any excess
steam to escape. If the brisket is done, you should easily be able to
pry a small chunk of meat from one end with a fork.  If it is not
sufficiently tender, lock the lid back into place and return to high
pressure for another 10 - 15 minutes. If time permits cool to room
temperature and refrigerate brisket and gravy overnight.  Remove any
congealed fat and return the gravy to the cooker. About 20 minutes
before serving, stir in enough cider to equal approximately 2 cups.
Add the sweet potatoes, parsnips, and prunes. Lock the lid in place
and over high heat bring to high pressure, adjust heat and cook for 3
minutes. Quick release the pressure. Add salt and pepper. Cut the
brisket into slices on the diagonal, place in the cooker, and spoon
gravy and vegetables on top. Cover but do not lock. Cook over medium
heat just until the meat is warmed throughout. Arrange on a platter
and surround with the vegetables. Pour gravy on top.

: Cooking Under Pressure
Recipe By

From: Donna Bunch <bunch@farm.Fccc.Edu>

