Title: BROILED SAKE-MARINATED CHILEAN SEA BASS IN SHISO BROTH
Categories: Main dish, Seafood
Yield: 6 Servings
3/4 c  Soy sauce
6 1/2 tb Mirin (sweet Japanese
-cooking wine)*
1/4 c  Sake or dry sherry
6 tb Plus 1-1/2 teaspoons sugar
1 ts Grated fresh ginger
1 ts Minced garlic
2 1/4 lb Chilean sea bass or cod
-fillet, cut into 6 pieces
3 oz Medium-width dried rice
-noodles*
2 tb Sesame seeds
2 c  Chicken Stock, or canned
-low-sodium chicken broth
2 1/2 tb Rice-wine vinegar or
-white-wine vinegar
1 1/2 ts Asian sesame oil
1    Carrot, cut into 2-inch-long
-matchstick strips
1    Leek, white and light-green
-parts only, cut into
-2-inch-long matchstick
-strips and washed well
1/2 lb Shiitake mushrooms, stems
-removed and caps sliced
1/2 lb Spinach, stems removed and
-leaves washed
6    Shiso or basil leaves,
-sliced thin
2 tb Chopped fresh chives or
-scallion tops
*Available at Asian markets and some supermarkets

From: - Terra * St. Helena -

1. In a shallow glass dish or stainless-steel pan, combine 1/2 cup of
the soy sauce, 4 tablespoons of the mirin, the sake, 6 tablespoons of
the sugar, 3/4 teaspoon of the ginger and 3/4 teaspoon of the garlic.
Add the fish fillets and arrange them so that they are completely
covered with the marinade. Let the Chilean sea bass marinate in the
refrigerator for about 6 hours.

2. In a large bowl, cover the rice noodles with warm water and leave
to soften, about 10 minutes. Drain.

3. In a small frying pan, toast the sesame seeds over moderate heat,
stirring frequently, until light brown, about 3 minutes. Or toast
them in a 350 B0 oven for 15 minutes.

4. In a large pot of boiling, salted water, cook the rice noodles
until just done, about 3 minutes. Drain.

5. Heat the broiler. Drain the fish and discard the marinade. Put the
fish on a baking sheet and broil until the fish is just cooked
through, about 5 minutes.

6. Meanwhile, in a medium pot, combine the remaining 1/4 cup soy
sauce, 2-1/2 tablespoons mirin, 1-1/2 teaspoons sugar, 1/4 teaspoon
ginger, 1/4 teaspoon garlic, the Chicken Stock, rice-wine vinegar and
sesame oil. Bring to a boil over moderately high heat. Add the
carrot, leek and mushrooms and simmer for 1 minute. Add the cooked
noodles, the spinach and two thirds of the shiso leaves. Simmer for
30 seconds longer.

7. Transfer the noodles and vegetables to plates. Pour on the broth
and top with the fish. Sprinkle the fish with the toasted sesame
seeds, the remaining shiso leaves and the chives.

Chilean sea bass has a very different texture from that of other
fish. Even when it is cooked to well-done, the fish remains soft.
Since it doesn't firm up, you'll need to check its temperature to
tell whether it's done. Stab a small bamboo stick into the middle of
the fillet. Leave for a moment, pull it out and touch the end. If
it's hot, the fish is ready.

Chilean sea bass is not interchangeable with other bass. If you can't
find it, cod is a closer substitute than a different type of sea
bass. In place of the shiso leaves, you can use basil. Sweet sherry,
while not as sweet as mirin, can be used in its place.

A dry gew FCrztraminer or riesling from the Napa Valley or Alsace has
almost the same balance of sweetness and acidity as the sake, and
complements the ginger and shiso.

