Title: BROWN RICE JAMBALAYA
Categories: Cajun, Rice, Ceideburg 2
Yield: 8 Servings
1/2 lb Diced ham or bacon (cut
-bacon crosswise into thin
-strips)
4    Chicken legs (2 1/2 pounds)
1 lb Cajun-style sausage
3 md Garlic cloves, peeled
1 md Onion, peeled, cubed
1 md Green bell pepper, cored,
-cut in 1-inch squares
2 md Tomatoes, peeled, cored,
-quartered
1 1/2 c  Raw brown rice
1/2 ts Each, dried oregano leaves,
-dried thyme leaves, file
Powder, ground black pepper
1/4 ts Each, cayenne pepper,
-ground cumin
3 c  Chicken broth
Salt
1/2 lb Peeled, deveined raw shrimp
I seem to remember you being involved in a conversation about brown
rice a few months back... Here's something that you might find
interesting.

Put ham or bacon in a 4-quart soup kettle and cook over low heat
until fat is rendered.  Increase heat to medium and stir until
cooked, about 5 minutes.

Remove chicken skin, cut meat off the bones and then cut boneless
chicken into bite-size pieces.  Add to kettle or skillet with bacon
or ham and toss until color turns pale, about 4 minutes. Remove bacon
or ham and chicken with a slotted spoon and put on paper toweling;
set aside. Add sausage to kettle and brown all over, about 6 to 8
minutes; remove. Leave 2 tablespoons fat in kettle; pour off and
discard remaining fat.

Insert metal blade in food processor.  Mince garlic by adding to
machine with motor on.  Add onion and chop very coarsely with half
second pulses. Add green pepper and process with half-second pulses
until mixture is chopped to medium consistency.  Add mixture to
kettle and stir over low heat until softened, about 10 minutes.
Process tomatoes until pureed; set aside.

Add rice to ingredients in kettle and stir over low heat for 2
minutes. Then stir in oregano Thyme, file, black pepper, cayenne
pepper and cumin. Add tomatoes and broth. Stir well and let mixture
to boiling. Reduce heat to low, cover and cook rice mixture 15 to 20
minutes. Cut sausage into 1/4-inch thick coin like slices. Mix
sausage, ham and chicken pieces into rice.  Cover and cook until rice
is tender (rice may not absorb all the liquid) about 20 minutes
longer. Taste and adjust seasoning, adding salt as needed. Stir
shrimp into hot rice mixture, cover pot and let stand for 8 to 10
minutes.  Serve rice with shrimp, meats and liquid.

Serves 8.

San Francisco Chronicle, date unknown.

Posted by Stephen Ceideburg; February 27 1991.

