Title: BUCHE DE MARRONS AU CHOCOLAT
Categories: Desserts, Masterchefs
Yield: 16 Servings
4 lb Chestnuts OR
2 lb Chestnuts, canned, whole,
-- unsweetened, drained OR
4 c  Chestnuts, pureed, canned,
-- unsweetened
1/4 c  Sugar, superfine
1/2 c  Butter, unsalted, melted
3 tb Calvados OR
3 tb Applejack OR
3 tb Cognac
1/2 ts Vanilla
8 oz Chocolate, semi-sweet,
-- melted, cooled,
-- (preferably Maillard)
MMMMM-------------------------GARNISHES------------------------------
1 c  Cream, whipping
1 ts Sugar
1/2 ts Vanilla
Candied violets
1 oz Chocolate, semi-sweet,
-- melted, cooled
1 tb Cocoa, unsweetened
If you are using fresh chestnuts, cut an X on the flat side of
each chestnut.  Place the chestnuts in a saucepan, cover with cold
water and bring to boil.

Cover and boil gently until tender, about 15 minutes. Remove the pan
from the heat and let it stand for 15 minutes. Shell the chestnuts,
removing both the hard outer shell and the inner brown skin. If
you're using canned chestnuts, simply drain. Reserve 3 whole
chestnuts for garnish. Puree chestnuts in a processor until very
smooth. Add 3/4 cup of very finely powdered sugar, butter, Calvados
and 1/2 teaspoon vanilla.  Puree again until very smooth and fluffy.
Add 8 ounces of melted chocolate and puree until very smooth. Line a
4 cup round log-shaped mold or loaf pan with plastic wrap, pressing
it down until smooth. Pour in the chestnut-chocolate mixture and tamp
the mold to eliminate any air bubbles.  Smooth over the surface, and
cover with plastic wrap. Refrigerate overnight.

To Garnish:

Unmold log on serving plate, and carefully remove the plastic wrap.
Whip the cream with 1 teaspoon of sugar and 1/2 teaspoon of vanilla
until stiff. Spread the cream evenly over all sides of the log,
forming a barklike ridge here and there with a spatula or decorating
comb. Drizzle thin lines of chocolate down the length of the log,
using a paper pastry cone or fork. Roll the 3 reserved chestnuts in
cocoa and arrange on the log lengthwise. Garnish with candied violets
and refrigerate until serving.

This log may be refrigerated for up to one week.

Source:  New York's Master Chefs, Bon Appetit Magazine Written by
Richard Sax, Photographs by Nancy McFarland The Knapp Press, Los
Angeles, 1985

Chef:  Andree Abramoff, Andree's Mediterranean Restaurant, New York

