Title: BUTTERCUP SQUASH & SPINACH PIE
Categories: Side dish, Holiday, Vegetables, Casseroles
Yield: 8 Servings
-ELAINE RADIS BGMB90B
MMMMM---------------------------DOUGH--------------------------------
2 ts Yeast
3/4 c  -Warm water
1 ts Sugar
3/4 c  Milk
2 tb Olive oil
4 c  Flour; to 4 1/2; plus 4 bd
2 ts Kosher salt
MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
1    Buttercup squash
2 tb Olive oil
2 lg Spanish onions; very thinly
-sliced
2 cl Garlic; finely chopped
1/2 c  Heavy cream
1 tb Cinnamon
1 tb Ginger; freshly grated
1/2 ts Nutmeg; freshly grated
1/2 ts Allspice
Kosher salt; and
Pepper; to taste
1 c  Romano cheese
1 lb Loose spinach; stemmed and
-washed
To prepare the DOUGH:  In the bowl of an electric mixer fitted with a
dough hook, add the yeast, warm water and sugar; stir with a fork.
Allow to stand for 10 minutes or until the yeast starts to bubble and
foam (PROOF). NOTE: Make sure that the water is NOT hot.

Add the milk, olive oil and 3 cups of the flour and salt on low
speed; mix to combine.  Continue to add flour 1/2 cup at a time,
kneading the dough in between at medium speed until the dough pulls
away from the sides and feels smooth, soft and, when indented with
your finger, springs back nicely. If you feel the dough is too sticky
you could add more flour, but it is better on the sticky rather then
the dry side.

Place the dough in an oiled bowl, cover with a  towel and allow to
double in bulk.  It will take 1 or two hours.

For the FILLING: While the dough is rising, prepare the filling. Set
the oven a 375 degrees.  Oil a baking sheet. Wash and cut the squash
in half and remove the seeds from the center. Drizzle the flesh with
1 T of olive oil and turn the squash cut side down on the baking
sheet. Bake in a preheated oven for 30 or 40 minutes or until the
flesh is soft. Remove from the oven and set aside.

In the meantime, in a saute pan heat the remaining T of olive oil
until hot.  Add the onions and cool over low heat, stirring
occasionally for 30 minutes.  Add the garlic and cook for 30 seconds.
Place the onions in a mixing bowl.  Using a large spoon scoop the
flesh from the squash and add it to the onions.  Stir in the heavy
cream. Season with cinnamon, ginger, nutmeg, allspice, kosher salt,
and pepper. Mix all the ingredients together and set aside until cool.

When the dough has doubled in size, punch it down and turn into a
floured board or counter.  Divide the dough in half. Lightly grease a
9x13 casserole baking dish, Using a rolling pin, roll half dough out
to form a rectangle large enough to fit in the prepared pan and all
the way up the sides.  The dough may spring back when you work it but
perceiver and make sure it fits up the sides. Sprinkle half the
romanao cheese over the bottom of the dough.  Spoon the cooled
filling into the bottom of the pan; smooth over the entire pan. Place
the spinach leaves over the squash mixture. This will seem like a lot
of filling but it will collapse while it cooks. Sprinkle the spinach
with the remaining cheese and season to taste.

Set the oven at 350 degrees,  a , roll out the remaining piece of
dough just large enough to fit on the top of the rectangle. Ease the
dough onto the top of the filling bringing the bottom edge over the
top. Pinch the seams together firmly. With a sharp knife make 4 large
holes on the top, spacing evenly.

Transfer the pie to the preheated oven and bake for 30 or 40 minutes
or until the crust is golden brown. Remove from he oven and cut into
squares. This pie is best eaten warmed through.

ELAINE'S NOTE:  I would do this with phylo dough...sheets on the
bottom and on the top.  Less work and I bet it would be just as
delicious. In fact I may try this at Howard's house this
Thanksgiving...

Source:  THE BOSTON GLOBE; November, 1993

