Title: BUTTER PECAN ROLLS
Categories: Desserts, Breads
Yield: 18 Servings
1    Cake compressed yeast
(1 envelope may be used)
1/4 c  Lukewarm water
1 c  Milk, scalded
1/4 c  Shortening
1/4 c  Sugar
1 ts Salt
3 1/2 c  Sifted all purpose flour
1    Beaten egg
Filling
2 tb Melted butter
1/2 c  Sugar
2 ts Cinnamon
Topping
1/2 c  Brown sugar
1/4 c  Butter
1 tb Light corn syrup.
1/3 c  Pecans
I think this recipe originally was from a Better Homes and Gardens
Cookbook, but I can't be sure - I've been making these for over 20
years. The recipe can be doubled successfully (yielding 2 sheet cake
pans or 32 rolls).

Soften yeast in lukewarm water.  Combine next 4 ingredients; cool to
lukewarm. Add 1 cup of the flour; beat well. Beat in yeast and egg.
Gradually add remaining flour to form a soft dough; beat well. Brush
top lightly with soft shortening; cover and let rise in warm place
until double (1 1/2 to 2 hours). Punch down; turn out on lightly
floured surface and divide dough in half. Roll each piece in 12 x 8
rectangle.

FILLING:

Brush each rectangle with 2 tablespoons melted butter. Combine 1/2 cup
sugar and 2 tsps cinnamon; sprinkle half over each rectangle.

Roll each rectangle as for a jellyroll, beginning with long side; seal
edge. Cut each roll in eight 1 1/2-inch slices. TOPPING:

In each of two loaf pans or one sheet cake pan or 2 cake pans, mix
1/2 cup brown sugar, 1/4 cup butter and 1 tablespoon light corn
syrup. Heat slowly, stirring frequently till blended. Remove from
heat. Spring
1/3    cup pecans in each pan.

Place 8 rolls cut side down in each pan.  Cover; let rise in warm
place until double (35 to 45 minutes). Bake in moderate oven (375
degrees) for 25 minutes or until done. Cool 2 or 3 minutes; invert on
rack and remove pans. Makes 16 rolls.

(If you leave the rolls in the pans to cool longer than a couple of
minutes, they will stick as the caramel topping sets up. You can
either place them back in the oven for a couple of minutes to heat up
the caramel or try a warm water bath.  I find it easier to turn them
out quickly - so don't wander too far after removing the rolls from
the oven.)

Enjoy

Kathie W. (kitwilli) In the Blue Ridge Mountains of Virginia

