Title: Apple and Nut Pockets
Categories: Cookies
Yield: 20 servings
1/4 ts Baking soda
1 x  -FILLING:
2/3 c  Apple butter
1 tb Lemon juice
1 x  Grated zest of 1 lemon
1/4 c  Finely chopped walnuts
1 x  Confectioners' sugar
1 x  -for dusting
1 x  -Dottie Cross TMPJ72B
1 x  -DOUGH:
8 tb Unsalted butter; softened
1 1/4 c  Sugar
1 ea Large egg
1 1/2 ts Vanilla extract
2 1/2 c  Sifted all-purpose flour
1/2 ts Salt
To make the dough: In a medium bowl, using a hand-held electric mixer set
at high speed, beat the butter until creamy, about 1 minute. Add the sugar
and beat until light in color and texture, about 2 minutes. Beat in the egg
and vanilla. Sift the flour with the salt and baking soda. Gradually add
the flour mixture to the butter mixture, beating well after each addition.
Scrape the dough onto a large piece of plastic wrap and wrap tightly.
Refrigerate until the dough is firm enough to roll out, at least 6 hours,
or preferably overnight. To make the filling: Combine the apple butter,
lemon juice, lemon zest, and walnuts and mix well. Preheat the oven to 375
degrees. Divide the dough into 4 portions. On a lightly floured work
surface, roll out one portion of dough to 1/8 inch thickness. (If the dough
crumbles, work in your hands until malleable.) Using a 3-inch round cookie
cutter, cut out rounds of the dough. Gather up the scraps to work into the
remaining dough. Repeat the process until all the dough has been used.
Place a rounded teaspoon of the filling in the center of half of the
rounds. Brush the edges of the rounds lightly with water. Place the
remaining rounds on top of the filled cookies. Using a fork, press the
edges sealed. Don't worry if cracks appear in the surface. Transfer the
cookies to ungreased baking sheets. Bake until lightly browned, 12 to 15
minutes. Transfer to wire racks and cool completely. Sprinkle with
confectioners' sugar before serving.  Makes about 20 large cookies. Source:
"An Edible Christmas" (A Treasury of Recipes for the Holiday) by Irena
Chalmers. Reformatted by: CYGNUS, HCPM52C

