Title: Gingerbread Baked in Jars
Categories: Cakes
Yield: 1 servings
2 ts GROUND GINGER
1 ts GROUND CINNAMON
1/2 ts GROUND CLOVES
1 c  MARGARINE; softened
3/4 c  WATER;hot
1/2 c  MOLASSES
1 x  ELLIE COLLIN CMKD93F
2 1/4 c  ALL-PURPOSE FLOUR
3/4 c  SUGAR
1 ts BAKING SODA
1/2 ts BAKING POWDER
1/4 ts SALT
Preheat oven to 350-degrees (pan method) or 325-degrees for jars.
Grease (use shortening) a 9 x 9 x 2-inch baking pan or 5 (12 oz) Kerr
Quilted Crystal Jelly Jars (#14400-80400)-- they MUST have straight sides,
no buldges in the jars. Also, the jars will have to be sterlized
first--boil them  for 10 minutes, leave the lids and rings in the water
until  you're ready to use them; remove the jars and allow them to air-dry
and cool before greasing. Use a pastry brush to grease the jars. DO NOT use
Pam or Baker's Secret!  In a large bowl, combine flour, sugar, baking
powder, baking soda, salt, ginger, cinnamon and cloves. Stir in margarine,
water and molasses until well blended.
Pour into prepared pan or divide equally among the 5 jars. Place jars onto
a cookie sheet or they'll tip over. PAN METHOD-- Bake in preheated
350-degree oven for 40-50 minutes or until cake tester inserted in center
comes out  clean. Cool slightly on wire rack.
JAR METHOD--Bake in a preheated 325-degree oven for 35 to 40 minutes or
until cake tester inserted deep into the center of each jar comes out
clean.
Have your lids ready (HOT). Take one jar at a time from the oven (using
heavy-duty mitts--the jars ARE HOT!) and place a lid on, then the ring.
Tightly screw on lids. Allow to cool on your counter top. You'll know when
the jars have  sealed, you'll hear a "plinking" sound. If you don't hear
the sound wait until the jars have cooled, then press down on the jar lids,
they shouldn't move at all.  If you'd like to decorate the jars, wait until
they've  cooled completely. Remove the ring (the lids should have sealed by
now) and place a wad of cotton in the center of each lid; place a piece of
decorative cloth (about 3 inches larger in circumference than the jar lid,
cut with pinking  shears) over the cotton. Screw the ring back on. If you'd
like to decorate further, use your hot glue gun, it's wonderful to glue on
dried flowers, ribbons--use your  imagination! If you like spicey and moist
gingerbread,  you'll love this one.

