Title: Asian Marinated Eggplant
Categories: Chinese, Vegetable
Yield: 6 servings
-and peeled
3/8 oz Peeled fresh ginger (1 by
-1/4 piece cut
Crosswise into 1/4 inch
-slices
4 md Sized (2 oz. each) Chinese
-eggplants *
1/4 c  Tamari
2 tb Loosely packed cilantro
-(coriander or chinese
Parsley) leaves
1 tb Rice wine vinegar
1 ts Toasted sesame oil
1 1/2    Med. cloves garlic, smashed
* (here they call them Japanese - the small skinny light purple or
lavender ones)

Combine all ingredients EXCEPT EGGPLANT in a blender or processor.
Process until smooth. Prick th eggplants several times with a fork
and pull off the leaves.  Cut in half lengthwise. On the open side of
each half make three deep diagonal slashes in each direction. Place
eggplants skin side down in a 13x9x2 oval dish.

Spoon 1 1/2 teaspoons of the marinade over each eggplant half. Rub
into flesh so that it runs into the cuts. Turn eggplants skin side
up.  Pour remaining marinade into the dish. Let stand 45 minutes.

Turn eggplants skin side down. Cover tightly with microwave plastic
wrap. Cook at high power for 10 minutes. Prick plastic to release
steam. Remove, uncover, spoon sauce over eggplants. Serve as side
dish. Recommended with grilled fish steak or chicken breast (of
course I'd baste that with a soy based marinade).

I may try this over a wok steamer rather than in the microwave.

WHICH REMINDS ME: Stephen, I love a dish which I have seen referred
to as Yu Shaing Eggplant. Based on a Yu Shaing sauce. Which is, to
some extent, translated as fish sauce (I know the yu or ju is fish)
not made from it but to go with it, I gather. It is certainly not
nuoc mam but I don't know if it contains it. It is rather hot and by
flavor I would guess it comes from the northern provinces - perhaps
NE end of China. I have also had it with fresh pork strings.
Glorious. Do you have any idea what it is or a recipe??? I have been
unable to find it anywhere in my Chinese library. The restaurant
where I eat it is not one to give recipes or ingredients to
non-Chinese (if they'd give it to the Chinese. The place is popular
with the newer Chinese community here.  (The old timers are all
Cantonese and so well integrated that they probably consider red
beans and rice their dish).

