Title: Boeuf Bourguignonne
Categories: French, Beef, Soup/stew
Yield: 6 servings
1    BOUQUET GARNI
3 c  Dry red wine
1 c  Beef stock
Salt, to taste
Fresh ground black pepper,
-to taste
2 tb Parsley
1 lb Fresh mushrooms
2 tb Butter
2 tb Vegetable oil
Cooked noodles, lightly
-buttered
1/4 lb Sliced bacon
3 lb Beef round, or chuck, in
-stewing pieces
2    Onions, minced
Cooking oil, if necessary
2 tb Cognac, Armagnac, or brandy
1/2 lb Carrots, peeled, trimmed, &
-sliced thickley diagonally
1 lb Boiling onions, peeled and
-trimmed
4    Garlic cloves, crushed and
-peeled
3    Veal bones, Optional
1.  Cut bacon slices horizontally into 1- by 1/4-inch strips.  In a
very large, heavy skillet, saute bacon until lightly browned but not
crisp. Remove bacon with a slotted spoon; drain on paper towels and
reserve. 2.  Reheat bacon fat, and over high heat, brown about one
third of the beef.  (If beef is crowded, juices will be released and
meat will boil rather than brown.)  Remove with a slotted spoon to a
large, heavy casserole or Dutch oven, and abrown remaining beef in
two more shifts, tgransfering it to the casserole when brown.  Over
moderate heat, saute minced onion in skillet until wilted (add
vegetable oil to skillet if necessary), and transfer to casserole.
3.  In a small saucepan over low heat, warm Cognac.  (Have a long
match ready.)  Warm casserole over low heat.  Pour Cognac into
casserole, warm for a minute, and very carefully (making sure nothing
flammable is near the stove), set the Cognac aflame.  When flame dies
down, add reserved bacon, carrots, garlic, veal bones (if used),
bouqet garni, wine, and stock.  Stir, carefully season to taste,
cover, and simmer very slowly until beef is tender (2 to 2 1/2 hours)
or slowly bake in oven at 250 degrees F.
4.  When stew is done, remove and discard veal bones and bouquet
garni. Degrease stew.  If desired, liquid may be poured off into a
sauce pan and boiled over a high flame until reduced by half, and/or
it may be thickened and enriched with beurre manie made of 3
tablespoons butter and 3 tablespoons flour.  Return liquid to the
stew.  Correct seasonings and reheat gently for a few minutes.
5.  Trim 1 pound of fresh mushrooms, wipe clean with a mushroom brush
or slightly damp paper towel, and cut into quarters.  In a heavy
skillet, rapidly saute mushrooms in 2 tablespoons of butter and 2
tablespoons of oil until lightly brown.  Add mushrooms to the stew 10
minutes before serving and garnish stew with 2 tablespoons minced
parsley.  Serve stew over a bed of cooked, lightly buttered noodles.

