Title: Bouillabaisse (French Seafood Feast)
Categories: Clam/oyster, Fish, Soup/stew, French
Yield: 1 servings
2    Doz mussels
1 1/2 lb Spanish mackerel
1 lb Cod steaks
4    Leeks
1    Celery heart
1    Fennel root
2 T  Butter
1 t  Grated orange rind
-dash ground cloves
-sliced onion, celery,
-carrot, leek
2 c  Water
-a few peppercorns
2 t  Potato flour
1 lb Tomatoes, thinly sliced
-eggs (1 per serving)
2    Live lobsters
1 1/2 lb Snapper fillets
1 lb Striped bass
1 lb Smoked eel
2    Carrots
2    White onions
3 T  Olive oil
2 t  Garlic, minced
-salt and cayenne
1/4 c  Brandy
-
1/2 c  Dry white wine
1    Bay leaf
1    Crushed clove garlic
1 t  Tomato paste
-blanched potato, sliced
-saffron bread
Dice the leeks, carrots, celery heart, onions and fennel finely and
evenly. Heat in pan olive oil and butter and add vegetables, minced
garlic and the grated orange rind and season with salt, cayenne
pepper, a pinch of ground cloves. Cover pan and cook very slowly
without browning for 2 to 3 minutes. Split the live lobsters, remove
bags and veins, claws and feet. Put lobsters in pan shell- side down,
cover and cook 2 1/2 minutes. Flame with the brandy. Cover the
lobsters and cook 2 or 3 minutes more. Set aside. Put mussels in pan
with a little sliced onion, carrots, celery and leek, the dry wine
and water, the bay leaf, peppercorns, a little salt and the crushed
garlic clove. Cover the pan, bring slowly to boil, reduce heat and
simmer 3 to 4 minutes or until mussels are well opened. Strain liquid
into a bowl. Mix in another bowl the potato flour and 2 tbs cold
water, blend in tomato paste and mix all this into the strained
mussel liquid. Pour the mixture over the lobsters. Cut all the fish
into chucks, leaving in the bone, and add to the lobster with the
tomatoes. Bring the mixture slowly to a gentile boil. Put in the
sliced blanched potatoes (1 slice per serving), cover pan and simmer
very gently 15 to 20 minutes only. Before serving, arrange in a big
pot with the potato slices and eggs, poached in the simmering liquid
around the edge.  Surround with 1" thick slices of French bread which
has been fried in olive oil mixed with 3 tsp Spanish saffron and 1/2
tsp garlic, until they are nicely brown on each side.

