Title: Braciole with Proscuitto
Categories: Beef, Italian, Pork, Main dish
Yield: 4 servings
1 tb Garlic, minced
1 c  Onions, minced
2 c  Tomatoes, peeled, seeded,
-and diced, fresh or canned
Salt, to taste
Fresh ground pepper,
-to taste
1 lb Beef bottom round
1 1/2 lb Porcini mushrooms, dried
1/3 lb Prosciutto, sliced paper
-thin
1 c  Celery leaves, coarsely
-chopped
4 tb Olive oil
1.  Have butcher slice meat into eight 2-ounce slices, or freeze it
briefly and slice it yourself with a sharp knife.  Place slices
between 2 sheets of lightly oiled waxed paper and pound with a mallet
or bottom of a skillet until they are paper-thin.  Soak porcini
mushrooms in hot water to cover for 1 hour.
2.  Place beef slices on a flat surface.  Divide prosciutto slices
evenly among them and sprinkle chopped celery leaves over prosciutto.
Roll each beef slice into a neat bundle and tie securely with kitchen
string. 3.  Heat 3 tablespoons oil in a heavy skillet over
medium-high heat until a light haze forms.  Brown beef rolls on all
sides, in batches if necessary, then set aside.  If necessary, add a
little more oil to coat surface of pan, then add gaarlic and onion
and saute over moderate heat until softened but not browned.
4.  With slotted spoon, remove mushrooms from soaking liquid and
squeeze dry.  Strain liquid through cheesecloth to remove any grit or
sand.  Add mushrooms, tomatoes, and reserved soaking liquid to
skillet.  Season with salt and pepper to taste.  Return meat to
skillet and bring sauce to a simmer.  Cover, reduce heat to maintain
a slow simmer, and cook 2 hours. Check meat after 1 hour, adding a
little water if sauce has reduced too much.  When meat is quite
tender, transfer rolls to a warm serving plate, cut strings carefully
with a small knife and cover with sauce.

Comments:

Braciole is the Italian word for boneless meat cutlets, which are
almost invariably stuffed, rolled, and tied.  Here, in a Roman
version, the cutlets are wrapped around a filling of proscuitto and
celery, then gently braised with tomatoes and aromatic Italian
mushrooms.

