Title: Braised Whole Fish with Shrimp Sauce
Categories: Chinese, Seafood
Yield: 4 servings
1 tb To 2 tb Cornstarch
2 tb Salad oil
1 tb Shredded or minced fresh
-ginger
1/2 c  Low-salt chicken broth
1 tb Soy sauce or bean sauce
1 ts Corn starch, mixed with 2
-teaspoons water
3    Green onions, thinly slice
-on a sharp diagonal
-(garnish)
2    Dry Shiitake mushrooms
1 tb Soy sauce
1 tb Shao Hsing wine OR dry
-sherry
1 ts Cornstarch
1/4 lb Medium shrimp, peeled,
-deveined and minced
1    Whole Cleaned fish, scaled
-if necessary OR
1 1/2 lb Fish fillets or steak
Salt and pepper (optional)
Soak mushrooms in warm water until caps are tender, 15 to 30 minutes;
drain. Gently squeeze water from mushrooms then cut off and discard
stems; thinly slice caps. Set aside. In a small bowl, combine 1
tablespoon soy sauce, wine and cornstarch. Add shrimp and stir to
coat. Set aside.

Sprinkle fish lightly with salt and pepper; dredge in cornstarch and
shake off excess or lightly sprinkle with cornstarch (fish does not
need to be completely coated).  Place a wide frying pan (preferably
with a non-stick surface) over medium-high heat. Add 1 tablespoon of
the oil; swirl to coat surface. Add fish (skin side up if using
fillets); cover and cook until golden brown on bottom, about 3
minutes.  carefully turn fish over and repeat to brown other side.
Remove fish and set aside.

Add the remaining tablespoon of oil to the pan. Add ginger and cook,
stirring, until fragrant, about 10 seconds. Add shrimp and stir until
shrimp are opaque and separated, about 1 minute. Add mushrooms, broth
and soy sauce and cook for 30 seconds. Add cornstarch solution and
stir until sauce boils and thickens. Return fish to pan and spoon
sauce over fish. Cover and simmer until center of fish at thickest is
just opaque, about 3 to 5 minutes. Transfer fish to platter; pour
sauce over fish. Garnish with green onions. Serves 4.

Per serving: 294 Calories, 31 g Protein, 7 g Carbohydrates, 2 g
Saturated Fat,  5 g Monounsaturated Fat, 7 g Polyunsaturated Fat, .7
Omega-3 Fat, 109 mg Cholesterol, 668 mg Sodium

SOURCE: *Simply Seafood, Spring  1992 SHARED BY: Jim Bodle 3/93

