Title: Chicken and Rice in a Sandy Clay Plot
Categories: Chinese, Chicken
Yield: 2 servings
-mashed (optional)
4    Green onions, including the
-green tops, cut into 2-inch
-lengths
1 ts Corn starch
1/2 c  Chicken stock
2 tb Rice wine or dry sherry
1/4 ts White pepper
CHICKEN MARINADE:
1 1/2 tb So sauce
1 1/2 tb Rice wine or dry sherry
1/2 ts Sugar
1 ts Asian sesame oil
1 1/2 ts Corn starch
Stephen Ceideburg
2 c  Long-grain rice
2 1/4 c  Cold water
6    Chinese dried black
-mushrooms
1/4 c  Dried lily buds
6    Chicken thighs, preferably
-with the skin
2    Lean Chinese sausages (about
-2 ounces each)
1 tb Peanut or corn oil
4    Garlic cloves, peeled
3    Quarter-sized slices fresh
-ginger, peeled
1 tb Fermented bean curd (fu yu),
For entertaining, this recipe makes a fun presentation when prepared
in four individual two-cup clay pots. To season a new sandy clay pot
and lid, submerge both in cold water overnight.

Rinse with cold water until water runs clear. Drain thoroughly. Put
rice and water into a 2 1/2 to 3-quart sandy clay pot; set aside.

In 2 separate bowls, cover the mushrooms and lily buds with water
until soft and pliable, about 30 minutes. Drain. Cut off and discard
mushroom stems; cut caps in half. Cut off and discard hard ends of
each lily bud; tie each bud into a knot. Set aside.

Using a heavy cleaver, chop the chicken crosswise into 3 pieces
cleanly through the skin, meat and bone leaving no jagged chopped
bones.

Toss chicken with marinade; set aside for 20 minutes. Cut sausages
into thin diagonal slices.

In a preheated wok add oil, garlic and ginger. Stir-fry over medium
heat until fragrant, about 10 seconds. Increase heat to high; add
chicken and sausages and stir occasionally until lightly browned,
about 5 minutes. Add mashed fermented bean curd to center of wok;
toss with chicken mixture. Add mushrooms, lily buds and green onions
and stir-fry 30 seconds.

Mix cornstarch with chicken stock, wine and pepper to a smooth
mixture. Pour into the wok and stir until sauce thickens, about 10
seconds. Remove from heat.

Place clay pot over medium-high heat. Boil rice and stir with
chopsticks to loosen grains. Continue boiling until surface water is
absorbed (about 5 minutes). Pour chicken mixture over rice, cover,
reduce heat to low, and cook for 20 minutes. Turn off heat, do not
remove lid; let sit for 10 minutes longer.

PER SERVING (4 servings): 850 calories, 39 g protein, 84 g
carbohydrate, 36 g fat (10 g saturated), 141 mg cholesterol, 777 3
fiber.

Marion Cunningham writing in the San Francisco Chronicle, 10/2/91.

