Title: Dampfnudle (Yeast Dumplings)
Categories: German
Yield: 4 servings
1 ds Salt
150 g  Butter OR, better yet,
-clarified butter (2/3 cup)
1    To 2 eggs
500 g  Flour (4 1/2 cups less 1
-Tbsp)
1/4 l  Milk (1 cup plus 1 Tbsp)
40 g  [fresh] yeast (1.4 oz)
Heat the milk a bit and then dissolve the yeast in it.  Make a well
in the flour, and pour the yeast mixture into it.  Let rest for 1/2
hour.  Then, add the remaining milk and the salt, and knead well.
Vigorously beat the dough until it forms bubbles, then cover, and in
a warm spot, let rest for 1 hour.  Cut off fist size pieces, and - on
a floured pastry board - let these pieces rise one more time, for
another 15 minutes.

In a wide pot, melt the fat, and then add warm, salted water to a
depth of about 3/4 inch.  Add the dumplings, arranged in one layer,
touching each other.  Put a lid on the pot, and additionally seal the
edges - where the lid rests on the pot - with damp cloths in order to
keep the steam inside. Bake at low heat.  The dumplings should be
done in about 20 minutes, and have the highly desirable 'Schuepet'
(hard, brown crust) on the bottom.

'Dampfnudle' may be served sour, with sauerkraut, or sweet, with
stewed fruit or vanilla sauce.

Variation: DAMPFNUDLE IN DER SCHLEIFERBRUEH* (Steamed Dumplings in
Thin Gravy):

Prepare as for regular 'Dampfnudle', but prior to arranging them in
the pot, thoroughly dust the bottom of each dumpling with flour.
During the steaming process, the flour and water will form a whitish
gravy that is called 'Schleiferbrueh'.

[*Note: In the olden days, scissors-and-knife grinders would go from
house to house, wheeling a little cart with a round, treadle-operated
whetstone. The bottom of the whetstone would be in a bit of water,
which - with the treadle turning the stone - would keep the grinding
surface wet. As the grinder sharpened knives and scissors, a bit of
the whetstone would wear off, and this somewhat cloudy water was the
original application of the term 'Schleiferbrueh'. K.B.]

Serves 4.

From:  D'SCHWAEBISCH' KUCHE' by Aegidius Kolb and Leonhard Lidel,
Allgaeuer Zeitungsverlag, Kempten.  1976. (Translation/Conversion:
Karin Brewer) Posted by:  Karin Brewer, Cooking Echo, 9/92

