Title: Fish Dinner Columbian Coast
Categories: Fish, Rice, Cajun/creol
Yield: 4 servings
1 1/2 t  Paprika
4 T  Butter
1 T  Flour
2 sm Sliced onions
1    Cubed green pepper
2 md Sliced lemons
-Cloves crushed garlic
4    Fillets of fish
3/4 c  Milk
2 T  Tomato paste
2 md Sliced tomatoes
4    Pieces finely chopped
-pimento
-Salt, pepper, parsley to
-your taste  2
Prepare firm fish fillets for cooking. Sprinkle with salt, pepper and
crushed garlicup Let stand for 2 hours. Melt 2 tbs of butter in saute
pot. Stir in the marinated fish and cook 5 minutes on each side at
medium heat. Add the milk and simmer for 20 minutes or until desired
doneness. While fish is cooking, saute the onions, tomatoes, and
green peppers in 2 tbs of butter for 5 minutes at medium heat; add
the paprika, the flour, and the tomato paste, stirring constantly.
Pour the vegetable mixture sauce over the fish, cover, and let it
cook for 5 more minutes to blend in the flavor at low heat.

Serve and garnish with the sliced lemons and chopped pimento and
parsley on top.

"Patacon Frito" (Fried Plantain Banana)

Ingredients: 4 Green Plantain (or Green Chiquita) Bananas Pinch of
salt frying vegetable oil

If you live near a Hispanic market you will surely find the real
plantain bananas (ask for "Platano Verde"). If not Chiquita (or Dole,
or whatever) will do, as long as they are on the green side. Peel off
the bananas. Heat the oil in a deep frying pan making sure the amount
of oil will cover the bananas. When the oil reaches a normal frying
temperature, dip the bananas and fry them until they reach a light
brown color (will take 10-15 minutes at medium heat). Take the fried
bananas out of the pan.

Lay out plastic wrap on a wooden board. Place one fried banana at a
time; cover with another plastic wrap and pound it with a meat hammer
until flattened to about 1/4" thick. Carefully remove the plastic
wraps from the flattened banana. When done flattening all the
bananas, Fry them in a 12" skillet at medium heat for 15 minutes and
with enough oil to cover them, until they get crispy and brown on
both sides. Texture and color are the same as in french fries.
(MMMMMM!). Take them out and place them over paper towels to remove
excess oil. Salt to taste.

Serve hot with the Fish and the Rice.

