Title: Fish Soup (Kakavia)
Categories: Soup/stew, Greek, Fish, Seafood
Yield: 8 servings
1 c  Chopped carrot
1 c  Chopped celery (with leaves)
1/2 c  Olive oil
2 c  Chopped, peeled tomatoes
2    Bay leaves
4    Sprigs parsley
1    Sprig thyme
750 g  Potatoes; peeled & sliced
Parsley; chopped
Karen Mintzias
1 1/2 kg Fish trimmings
3 l  Water
Salt
Whole peppercorns
2 lg Onions; chopped
2    Garlic cloves; crushed
2    Leeks (optional)
-- white part only
MMMMM-----------------------FISH (SEE NOTE----------------------------
500 g  Large green prawns
2 tb Lemon juice
1 1/2 kg Mixed whole fish
500 g  Green lobster tails
Obtain from the fishmonger fish trimmings such as heads and backbones.
Rinse well and place in a large pot.  Add water, salt and 1/2 teaspoon
peppercorns and simmer for 2 hours.  Strain stock and reserve.

Gently fry onion, garlic, chopped leeks, carrots and celery in oil
for 10 minutes.  Add chopped tomatoes, herbs tied into a bunch and
reserved fish stock.  Season well with salt and freshly ground
pepper.  Cover and simmer for 30 minutes.   Add potatoes and boil for
5 minutes.

Reduce heat, add fish pieces and simmer 3 minutes, then add lobster
pieces and prawns and simmer for 7-10 minutes until prawns turn pink
and lobster meat is cooked.  Do not boil when shellfish are added for
they will toughen.

Pile fish, shellfish and potatoes in a serving dish, sprinkle with
chopped parsley and keep hot.

Serve soup in a tureen as a first course with crusty bread, then
follow with seafoods and potatoes served with lemon wedges and a
cruet of olive oil.  Alternatively soup, potatoes and seafoods may be
served together in deep plates.

NOTE: Fish and shellfish preparation: Fish suitable are snapper,
mullet, eel, whiting, john dory and bream.  Cut into 5 cm (2 inch)
slices and sprinkle with lemon juice.  Add heads and trimmings to
fish stock.  Cut rinsed lobster tails into 5 cm (2 inch) pieces with
shell on.  Shell and de-vein prawns.

Source: The Greek Cookbook by Tess Mallos

Typos by: Karen Mintzias

