Title: Harbor Village Bbq Pork
Categories: Chinese, Pork
Yield: 2 servings
8    Garlic cloves, peeled and
-minced
1 3/4 c  Hoisin sauce
1 3/4 c  Ground bean sauce
1 1/4 c  Sugar
1/2 c  "nam yu" (red bean curd
-"cheese")
1/2 c  Sesame seed paste
Glazing Sauce:
One 17.5-ounce container of
-maltose sugar
1/4 c  Hot water
2 ts Mui Gwe Lo rice wine
1    Boston pork butt (about 3
-1/4 pounds)
1/4 c  Harbor Village Chef's BBQ
-Marinade
1 1/4 c  Sugar
1 tb Salt
2 ts Mui Gwe Lo rice wine
1/3 c  Light soy sauce
1 ts Five-spice powder
1 c  Water (for roasting pan)
Glazing Sauce
BBQ Marinade:
2/3 c  Cooking oil
Most master chefs seldom reveal all their kitchen secrets, but Derun
Yu shared this recipe for a barbecued pork marinade, adapted for the
home oven. Armed with a Chinese rice bowl, he assembled the
ingredients, then poured them into a scale so we would have precise
measurements. Versatile Chinese barbecued pork is the "ham" of
Chinese cooking. It may be sliced and served as an appetizer or
entree, or like a sandwich, cubed and stuffed in bread dough and
steamed into pork buns. It's good stir-fried with vegetables, tossed
with noodles or cooked with scrambled eggs.

Prepare the marinade:

Heat the oil in a wok or saucepan over medium-high heat. Add the
garlic and gently fry just until it floats to the surface and is
golden brown (about 2 minutes). Quickly remove the garlic and
discard. Pour the garlic oil into a large mixing bowl, let cool.

Stir in remaining ingredients with the garlic oil into a smooth
sauce. Pour into a glass jar. cool. If the marinade is covered with
1/8 inch cooking oil, it will keep in the refrigerator for several
months. Yields 5 cups.

Then combine the sugar, salt, rice wine, soy sauce, Barbecue Marinade
and five-spice powder in a large mixing bowl; mix well. Add the pork
butt and marinate for about 30 minutes (when using spareribs,
marinate for 1 hour).

Preheat oven to 500 degrees Fahrenheit. Pour the water into a
10X14-inch roasting pan. Place the roasting rack in the pan (the rack
should not touch the water). Remove the meat slices from the marinade
and  place on the rack; reserve the marinade. Roast for 8  minutes,
turn over and roast the other side 8 minutes longer. Reduce the oven
temperature to 300 degrees Fahrenheit. Brush the pork with the
reserved marinade; roast for an additional 20 minutes on each side.
Remove from the oven and let cool for 5 minutes.

Slice the pork butt into 1/4-inch slices.

Prepare the glazing sauce:

To soften maltose sugar, place the container (uncovered) in a
microwave oven at high setting for 1 minute. Transfer the softened
maltose into a double boiler with the water and rice wine; stir until
the glaze is well mixed. Keep the sauce warm until ready to use.
Makes 2 cups.

Then spoon a few tablespoons of the glaze over pork before serving.

Note: Hoisin sauce, ground bean sauce, nam yu, maltose sugar and
sesame seed paste are available in Chinese markets.

Joyce Jue. San Francisco Chronicle, 8/19/92.

