Title: Jennie Grossinger's Knishes
Categories: Dessert, Vegetable, Jewish
Yield: 24 servings
-knead
Until smooth.
There are two ways to fill
-the knishes. In either
-case,
Divide the dough in two and
-roll as thin as possible.
Brush with oil. Now you can
-spread the filling on one
-side
Of the dough and roll it up,
-like a jelly roll.  Cut
-into
5 1/2    Inch slices.
2 1/2 c  Sifted flour
1 ts Baking powder
1/2 ts Salt
2    Eggs
2/3 c  Salad oil
2 tb Water
Sift the flour, baking
-powder and salt into a
-bowl. Make a
Well in the center and drop
-the eggs, oil and water
-into
It. Work into the flour
-mixture with the hand and
Here's the basics, fillings follow in the next messages.

DOUGH:

Place in an oiled baking sheet cut side down.  Press down lightly to
flatten. Or you can cut the rolled dough in 3- inch circles. Place a
tablespoon of the filling on each; draw the edges together and pinch
firmly.  Place on an oiled baking sheet, pinched edges up

In either case, bake in a 375 degree oven 35 minutes or until browned.
Makes about 24.

FILLINGS FOR KNISHES

POTATO: 1 cup chopped onions 6 tablespoons chicken fat or butter 2
cups mashed potatoes 1 egg 1 teaspoon salt 1/4 teaspoon pepper

Brown the onions in the fat or butter. Beat in the potatoes, egg,
salt and pepper until fluffy.

CHEESE 1 1/2 cups diced scallions or onions 4 tablespoons butter 2
cups pot cheese 1 egg 1 1/2 teaspoons salt 1/8 teaspoon pepper 2
tablespoons sour cream

Scallions are better than onions for this, so try to get them. Brown
the scallions in the butter and beat in the cheese, egg, salt, pepper
and sour cream until smooth.

MEAT: 1/2 cup minced onions 2 tablespoons chicken fat 1 1/2 cups
ground cooked meat 1/2 cup cooked rice 1 egg 1 teaspoon salt 1/4
teaspoon pepper

Lightly brown the onions in the fat. Add the meat, rice, egg, salt and
pepper, mixing until smooth.

CHICKEN 1 1/2 cups ground cooked chicken 3/4 cup mashed potatoes 1
egg, 1 teaspoon salt 1/4 teaspoon pepper

Mix all the ingredients until smooth.

And finally, the classic:

POTATO-DOUGH KNISHES

1/4 cup minced onions 6 tablespoons chicken fat or butter 4 cups
mashed potatoes 1/2 cup potato flour 3 eggs 1 teaspoon salt 1/4
teaspoon pepper

Brown the onions in 4 tablespoons chicken fat or butter.  Cool.

Knead together the remaining fat or butter, the pota- toes, potato
flour, eggs, salt and pepper. Break off pieces (about 2 inches long)
and flatten slightly. Place a tea- spoon of browned onions on each
and cover by pinching the edges together. Place on a greased baking
sheet. Bake in a 375 degree oven 25 minutes. Makes about 20.

