Title: Kolacz Weselny (Sculpture Cake)
Categories: European, Cheese/eggs, Dessert
Yield: 1 servings
Milk
Cheese Filling:
2 lb Dry cottage cheese or
-farmer's old-fashioned
-white cheese(4cups)
4    Egg yolks
2 c  Granulated sugar
1 tb Vanilla Sugar(or vanilla
-plus sugar)
2    (1/4 oz) pkgs, active dry
-yeast ( 2Tbsp)
1 c  Plus 1 Tbsp sugar
1/4 c  Warm water
1 c  Unsalted butter or
-margarine, room temperature
2    Eggs
1 pt Warm milk (2 cups)
6 1/2 c  All purpose flour
1 pn Of salt
This very old recipe is famous for the artistic, decorative sculpture
arranged on top.  The picture in the cookbook has the upper outer edge
circled with a braid of dough and cutouts of ducks arranged flat on
the top.

Prepare Cheese Filling; set aside.  In a small bowl, dissolve yeast
and 1 Tbsp sugar in 1/4 cup warm water.  Let stand 5 to 10 minutes
until foamy.

Place 1 cup sugar, butter or margarine and eggs in large bowl.  Beat
until pale and fluffy.  Add yeast mixture, 1 pint milk, 2 cups flour
and salt.

Beat until well blended.  Stir in enough remaining flour to make a
soft dough.  Turn out dough on a lightly floured surface.  Clean and
grease bowl.  Knead dough until smooth and elastic.  Place dough in
greased bowl, turning to coat all sides.

Cover with a clean damp cloth;let rise in a warm place, free from
drafts, until doubled in bulk. Preheat oven to 350 F.  Grease side
and bottom of a 10 inch springform pan.  Divide dough into thirds.
Using your hands, gently press 1/3 of dough evenly over bottom and
side of pan.  Evenly spread Cheese Filling over doughlined pan.  On a
lightly floured surface, roll out another 1/3 of dough to a 10 inch
circle.  Place over Cheese Filling. Gently pat with your hands.
Using a pastry brush, lightly brush milk over top of dough.  Cut
remaining 1/3 dough in 4 even pieces.  Shape 3 pieces into long
ropes.  Braid ropes; apply to outer edge of cake.  Using remaining
dough, cut desired figures with various cutters of form shapes with
your hands. Arrange figures on top of dough as desired.  Lightly
brush with milk.  Bake 50 to 60 minutes or until golden brown.  Cool
cake in pan 5 minutes on a rack.  Remove pan side; cool completely on
rack. Makes 1 (10 inch) cake.

Cheese Filling:  With a grinder or food processor, process cheese.
Do not puree or over process.  Place egg yolks, sugar and Vanilla
Sugar in a large bowl.  Beat until pale and creamy, at least 10
minutes.  Add ground cheese, a little at a time, while beating.  Beat
until smooth.

Source: HP Books, Polish Cooking by Marianna Olszewska Heberle posted
by Linda Davis

