Title: Microwave Grape Jelly
Categories: Misc/food
Yield: 6 servings
1 tb (15mL) powdered pectin
1 3/4 c  (420mL) sugar
1 1/2 c  (360mL) grape juice
2 ts (10mL) lemon juice
Combine grape juice, lemon juice and pectin in a three-quart
microwave-safe bowl.  Cover with plastic wrap or waxed paper and
bring to a boil in the microwave oven on high setting (about 5
minutes).  Remove from oven and add sugar.  Stir until sugar
dissolves, then return to oven.  Bring mixture to a boil on high
setting (about 4 minutes).  Remove from the oven and stir. Return the
uncovered mixture to the oven and cook until jelly sheets from a
spoon (about 1 minute). Skim foam: pour into sterilized jars.  Adjust
caps. Yield: about 2 half-pints (480 mL).

From: The Ball Blue Book Shared By: Pat Stockett

The jelly will only be as good as the juice you use is.  Jelly must be
boiling hot to achieve a seal when using vacuum lids and metal screw
bands. Pour jelly into jar, holding ladle or kettle close to the top
of the jar. This prevents air bubbles from forming.  Quickly fill jar
to within 1/8 inch (3mm) of the top.  Wipe top and threads with a
clean, damp cloth.  Put hot lid on with sealing compound next to jar.
Screw band on evenly and tightly.  Invert jar for a few seconds so
hot jelly can destroy any mold or yeast which may have settled on the
lid.  Cool, test for seal, remove bands and store.

Or:

Jelly glasses are filled in a manner similar to jars, except a 1/2
inch head space (13mm) is left at the top.  Then the jelly is
immediately covered with a 1/8 inch (3mm) layer of melted, but not
smoking paraffin.  A single, thin layer of paraffin holds a seal
better than a thick layer.  To insure a good seal, paraffin must
touch all sides of the glass.  Prick any air bubbles that appear on
the paraffin.  Bubbles cause holes to appear as the paraffin hardens,
and an imperfect seal may result.  Allow glasses to stand until
paraffin hardens and then cover with metal lids.  Store in a cool,
dark, dry place.  Make only one batch at a time.

