Title: Neapolitan Mushroom Soup
Categories: Italian, Soup/stew, Vegetable
Yield: 8 servings
1 tb Minced fresh marjoram or 1
-teaspoon dried
1 tb Minced fresh thyme or 1
-teaspoon dried
5 c  Meat broth
8 sl Italian bread, 1/2 inch
-thick
3    Egg yolks
1/3 c  Freshly grated Parmesan
-cheese
2 tb Grated pecorino romano
-cheese
3 tb Chopped fresh parsley, plus
-about 1/4 cup chopped
1 oz Dried porcini mushrooms
3 tb Unsalted butter
3 tb Extra-virgin olive oil
1 sm Onion, minced
3    Cloves garlic, minced
1 1/2 lb Fresh mushrooms, wiped
-clean, stems trimmed,
And sliced
4    Fresh plum tomatoes, peeled,
-seeded and chopped
OR 4 canned Italian plum
-tomatoes, drained and
Chopped
1 ts Salt
Freshly ground black pepper
for garnish

Soak the porcini mushrooms in 1/2 cup of warm water for about 30
minutes. Drain, reserving the liquid.  Rinse, dry, and chop the
porcini mushrooms. Strain the soaking liquid through washed
cheesecloth, paper towels, or a coffee filter.  Set aside.

Melt the butter and 1 tablespoon of olive oil in a large pot over low
heat. Add the onion and garlic.  Cook, stirring frequently, until the
onion is wilted but not browned, about 5 minutes.

Add the porcini mushrooms and cook for 8 minutes.  Increase the heat
to medium and add the fresh mushrooms.  Cook until the juices run,
about 10 minutes.  Add the reserved porcini soaking liquid and
continue to cook until reduced by half, about 5 minutes.  Add the
tomatoes, salt, pepper, marjoram, and thyme; cook for 5 minutes.  Add
the broth and simmer for 15 minutes.

While the soup is cooking, toast the bread in a 400 F oven until
lightly browned on both sides.  Remove and brush one side with the
remaining olive oil.  Use more oil if necessary.

In a small bowl, beat the egg yolks with the Parmesan chese, the
pecorino romano cheese, and 3 tablespoons of chopped parsley.
Gradually whisk 1 cup of the hot soup into the egg yolks to warm
them.  Reverse and slowly whisk the egg yolk mixture into the soup.
Cook, stirring constantly, over medium-low heat until the soup
thickens.  (Do not boil or the soup will curdle.)

Place a piece of toast in each of 8 bowls.  Ladle in the hot soup and
sprinkle with additonal grated Parmesan cheese and chopped parsley.

Serves 8.

[ "We Called It Macaroni"; Nancy Verde Barr; Knopf; ISBN
0-394-55798-0 ]

Posted by Fred Peters.

