Title: Po Valley Pumpkin Pie
Categories: Italian, Dessert, Pie/tart, Pumpkin
Yield: 12 servings
1/4 ts Salt
2/3 c  Sugar
1 ts Grund cinnamom
2 lg Eggs
1 c  Almonds, ground
1/2 c  Yellow cornmeal
1/2 c  Candied orange peel
4 tb Unsalted butter, melted
1 1/4 c  All-purpose flour
1/4 c  Sugar
1/8 ts Salt
5 tb Unsalted butter
1 lg Egg
FOR THE PUMPKIN FILLING
1    Fresh pumpkin, about 2
-pounds, OR 1 can
Solid-pack pumpkin (1 pound)
FOR THE PASTA FROLLA:

For the Pasta Frolla:  Combine the dry ingredients and mix well. Rub
in the butter until it is absorbed, making sure the mixture remains
cool and powdery and does not become pastry.  Beat the egg and stir
in with a fork. Continue stirring until the dough holds together,
then knead it briefly, just until smooth.  Shape into a disk, wrap in
plastic, and regrigerate for at least 1 hour, or until firm.

For the Pumpkin Filling:  Cut the pumpkin into 2-inch dice, scrape
away the filaments from the inside and peel off the skin.  Steam the
pumpkin over simmering water for about 40 minutes, until it is
tender.  Puree the pumpkin in a blender or a food processor fitted
with a metal blade; cool. If the pumpkin puree is excessively watery,
cook it, stirring constantly, over medium heat, preferably in a
nonstick pan, to dry it out before proceeding.

Measure 2 cups of the pumpkin puree (a little more or less won't
matter) into a large mixing bowl.  Whisk in the salt, sugar,
cinnamon, and eggs, one at a time.  Combine the ground almonds and
cornmeal and stir into the pumpkin mixture.  Place the candied orange
peel in a strainer, rinse under cold, running water, and chop it
finely with a sharp knife.  (Oil the blade of the knife to prevent it
from sticking to the peel.) Stir the chopped peel into the filling,
then fold in the melted butter.

To Assemble the Pie:  Roll the dough out on a floured surface into a
large disk, about 14 inches in diameter.  Fold the disk of dough in
half and fit it into a buttered 9-by-2-inch deep layer cake pan.
Press the dough against the bottom and sides of the pan and trim the
edges so they are even with the top of the pan.  Pour in the filling
and spread it evenly.  The filling will be about 1/2-inch lower than
the top of the pan.  Fold the excess dough at the rim inward so that
it makes a border about 1/2-inch wide at the edge.

Bake the pie in the lower third of a preheated 350 F oven for about 45
minutes, until the filling is set and the dough is a light golden
color. Cool the pie in the pan on a rack.  When the pie is completely
cooled, place a flat plate or pan on top and invert.  Lift off the
baking pan and replace it with a platter.  Invert again and remove
the top plate or pan. Keep the pie loosely covered at room
temperature before serving.

Makes 10 servings.

Nutrition Information per Serving: 358 Calories, 7 g Protein, 20 g
Fat, 16 g Saturated Fat, 41 g Carbohydrate, 112 mg cholesterol, 105
mg Sodium

[THE WASHINGTON POST; Ocober 31, 1990]

Posted by Fred Peters.

