Title: Texas Barbequed Pork Ribs and Sausages
Categories: Bbq/grill, Pork, Sausage, Tex/mexican
Yield: 8 servings
12    Sausages (See note)
6 lb Pork country style ribs, in
-slabs
MMMMM-----------------------BASTING SAUCE----------------------------
1 ts Louisana-style hot sauce
1 tb Worchestershire sauce
2 c  Beef stock (see recipe for
-TEXAS BEEF STOCK)
1/4 c  Rendered bacon fat or butter
1/4 c  Vegetable oil
1/2 ts Salt
1 ts Black pepper, freshly ground
4 tb Fresh lemon juice
1 ts Garlic powder
2 ts Texas chili powder
1 1/2 ts Paprika
MMMMM-----------------TEXAS-STYLE BARBEQUE SAUCE----------------------
1 tb Fresh lemon juice
1 tb Liquid woodsmoke flavoring
2 tb Worchestershire sauce
3 tb Brown sugar
1    Bay leaf, broken in half
1 ts Paprika
2 ts Dry mustard
1/8 ts Thyme
1/2 ts Cayenne pepper
1 ts Salt
1/2 ts Black pepper, freshly ground
1/4 c  Butter
1/4 c  Peanut oil
1/2 c  Onions, minced
4    Garlic cloves, peeled and
-minced
1 c  Chicken stock (See recipe
-for TEXAS CHICKEN STOCK)
1 1/2 c  Catsup
1/2 ts Tabasco sauce
1/4 c  Molasses
1/4 c  Vinegar
3/4 c  Water
1.  In a barbeque with a cover, prepare fire with mesquite charcoal
briquettes, or usa another type of briquettes with mesquite chips.
Let burn down to glowing white coals (45 minutes to 1 hour).

2.  Meanwhile, prepare Basting Sauce and Texas-stype Barbeque Sauce.

3.  When charcoal is ready, push the briquettes to the edge of the
barbeque.  (If there is room in your barbeque, place a flameproof pot
filled with hot water in the center of the coals.)  Mop pork slabs on
the bony side with Basting Sauce and place mopped side down about 8
inches above the coals in the center of the oiled grill.  Moisten the
upper side with the sauce.  Cover and smoke pork for about 2 1/2
hours, basting every 15 minutes.  Leave the bony side down until the
last few minutes.  If rack is closer than 8 inches to the coals,
decrease cooking time to about 1 hour.  Add a few fresh briquettes to
the fire every 30 minutes.  If using a circular grill with
perforations on one side of the cover, rotate the perforations about
every 15 minutes to keep charcoal from going out.

4. When pork is nearly cooked, turn meaty side down and brown meat
well. At the same time, add sausages to the grill, placing them
directly over the coals, and grill, turning every few minutes until
done through (10 to 15 minutes).  Cut pork slabs into serving
portions and cover with Texas-style Barbecue Sauce.  Serve sausages
with the pork.

BASTING SAUCE:  Mix ingredients together in a 1 1/2-quart saucepan and
heat until fat melts.  Makes 2 3/4 cups.

TEXAS-STYLE BARBEQUE SAUCE:
1.   In a medium saucepan over medium heat, melt butter and oil.  Add
onion and saute until it is slightly carmelized, about 5 minutes.  Add
garlic and saute another 2 minutes.

2.  Add remaining ingredients, raise heat, and cook at a full boil
for 10 minutes, stirring frequently.

3.  Reduce heat, cover partially, and simmer for 1 hour, stirring
occasionally.  Sauce may be refrigerated for up to one week and
reheated when needed.  Makes about 4 cups.

NOTE:  You can use back ribs also.  Sausage can be any of the
following: hot links, garlic sausage, kielbasa, chorizo, bratwurst,
or knackwurst.

