Title: Texas Beef Stock
Categories: Beef, Tex/mexican, Soup/stew, Salsa/sauce
Yield: 8 servings
-approximately 2-inch pieces
2    Bay leaves
10    Parsley stems without leaves
4    Garlic cloves, unpeeled
1/2 ts Black peppercorns
1/2 ts Dried thyme
16 c  Cold water (approximately)
4 lb Beef soup bones, chopped in
-a few peices by the butcher
2    Onions, unpeeled, root end
-cut off, quartered
2    Carrots, scrubbed but not
-peeled, quartered
2    Celery stalks, cut in
1.  Preheat oven to 450 degrees F.  Roast bones in a roasting pan,
turning occasionally with a slotted metal spatula, until they begin
to brown (about 30 minutes).  Add onions, carrots, and celery; roast
until browned (about 30 minutes).

2.  Drain off fat.  With a slotted spatula, transfer bones and
vegetables to a stockpot, kettle or other large pot.  To ingredients
in stockpot, add bay leaves, parsley stems, garlic, peppercorns,
thyme, and enough of the cold water to cover.

3.  Bring just to a boil.  Add a little more cold water to reduce to
below boiling; stir once.  Bring back just to a boil and reduce heat
to very low so that liquid bubbles very gently.  Skim off foam that
collects on surface.  Partially cover and cook, skimming foam and fat
occasionally, for 4 to 6 hours.  During first 2 hours of cooking, add
hot water occasionally to keep ingredients covered.

4.  Strain stock through a colander lined with several thicknesses of
dampened cheesecloth, discarding solids.  If stock is not to be used
immediately, cool to lukewarm.  Refrigerate until fat rises to the
surface and congeals (about 3 hours).  If stock will be used within 3
to 5 days, leave fat; skim fat when ready to use.  If stock is to be
frozen, skim fat.

BROWN VEAL STOCK:  Substitute veal bones, preferably knuckle bones,
for the beef bones.

GLACE DE VIANDE (Meat Glaze):  Use this concentrated essence to flavor
sauces and soups or to glaze meats.  Boil stock, uncovered, over high
heat until syrupy and reduced to about seven eights.  Let cool; it
will become gelatinous.  Store, covered, for 1 week in the
refrigeratgor, or cut into tablespoon sized cubes and freeze.

