Title: Yemista Me Lahano (Stuffed Cabbage Leaves)
Categories: Greek, Main dish
Yield: 6 servings
24    Cabbage leaves
Salted water
1 tb Butter
2 c  Hot stock or water
Salt
1 tb Cornflour
2    Eggs; separated
1    Lemon (juice only)
Chopped dill or parsley
Karen Mintzias
1 lg Onion; finely chopped
1 tb Olive oil
1 kg Ground beef or lamb
1/3 c  Short grain rice
1    Tomato; peeled and chopped
2 tb Chopped parsley
1 ts Chopped dill or mint
1/8 ts Ground cinnamon
Freshly ground black pepper
Serves: 6 Cooking time: 1 1/2 hours

Gently fry onion in oil until soft.  Mix into meat with rice, tomato,
herbs and cinnamon, seasoning to taste with salt and pepper.  Divide
into 24 portions.

Blanch cabbage leaves in boiling, salted water for 5 minutes until
softened. Drain and cut out thick centre of larger leaves (very large
leaves may be cut in half).  Place one portion of stuffing on base of
leaf, turn up base, fold in sides and wrap firmly into a neat roll.
Repeat with remaining ingredients.

Place rolls close together, seam sides down, in a deep pan lined with
trimmings from cabbage leaves.  Add stock or water, butter, salt and
pepper to taste.  Invert a heavy plate on top of rolls and cover pan
tightly. Simmer gently for 1 1/2 hours.

When cooked, drain off stock carefully into a small saucepan.  Reduce
to 1 1 1/2 cups over heat and thicken with cornflour mixed to a paste
with a little cold water.  Let it boil 1 minute.

Beat egg whites in a bowl until stiff, add yolks and beat thoroughly.
Gradually beat in lemon juice, then boiling stock.  Return sauce to
small pan, place over low heat and stir constantly until egg is
cooked - do not boil.

Arrange rolls on a heated serving dish and spoon some of the sauce
over them.  Garnish with chopped dill or parsley and serve remaining
sauce separately.   Serve with mashed potatoes.

Note:  Grape vine leaves may be used instead of cabbage - about 40
will be required since they take less filling.

From: "The Complete Middle East Cookbook" by Tess Mallos. ISBN: 1
86302 069 1

Typed for you by Karen Mintzias

