Title: Candied Grapefruit
Categories: Fruit, Dessert, Candy
Yield: 1 servings
3    Plump, pink grapefruit,
- preferably organic
2 1/2 c  Sugar
1 1/4 c  Water
2 tb Corn syrup
Superfine sugar; for coating
5 oz Semisweet chocolate
1 tb Butter
SCORE GRAPEFRUIT INTO QUARTERS and carefully pull off peels or juice
fruits and cut halves again in half. Place peels in large pan, cover
them with cold water and bring to boil. Simmer 25 minutes. Remove
peels and let them cool until they are easy to handle. Hold peels
firmly against counter and gently scrape away most of white pith just
below skin. Cut cleaned peels into strips with knife or scissors as
narrow or wide as you like. In 2-quart saucepan, mix together sugar,
water and corn syrup. Bring to boil. When syrup is clear, add peels,
lower heat and cook slowly until peels are translucent, about 1 hour.
Set cake rack over baking sheet. Remove peels a few at a time and
spread them out on rack to drain about 15 minutes. While they are
draining, thickly cover large plate with super- fine sugar. Set
several pieces at a time in sugar and turn them to coat them. When
evenly coated, set them aside on another plate or piece of parchment
paper thinly coated with sugar. This process will need to be done in
several batches. If sugar become lumpy with beads of syrup, pass it
through a strainer, then continue using it. Set aside sugared peels
about 1 hour or until they are dried. Carefully package them in tin
or plastic container and store either in cupboard or refrigerator. To
dip peels in chocolate, melt semisweet chocolate over simmering water
along with butter. Stir well to ensure that mixture is smooth before
removing from heat. Dip each rind into chocolate, coating most of it
but leaving a little "handle" to grasp. Or, completely immerse each
rind in chocolate, then remove with 2 forks or pair of chopsticks.
Set slices on parchment paper or cake rack and place in cool place to
harden. Once chocolate has set, pieces can be stored in refrigerator.
Chocolate will discolor when it cools but will become dark and glossy
again once brought to room temperature.

Makes 3 Cups

DEBORAH MADISON - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK

