Title: Chinese Egg Rolls
Categories: Appetizer
Yield: 1 servings
1/2 c  Soy sauce
1/4 c  Water
1 cl Mashed garlic
Juice from 1/4 lemon
1    Quartered roasting chicken
2 lb Lean pork tenderloin
3 tb Vegetable oil
1    Finely sliced celery stalk
1 sm Head cabbage finely diced
3    Finely diced large onions
1 pk (8-oz) finely diced fresh
Mushrooms
Soy sauce to taste
Salt and pepper
1 lb Bean sprouts thoroughly
Cleaned
Egg roll wrappers
1    Lightly beaten egg white
Vegetable oil for frying
MMMMM-----------------------DIPPING SAUCE----------------------------
1/2 c  Soy sauce
1 ts Dry mustard
3 ts Garlic powder
1 ts Vinegar
1 ts Brown sugar
Mix together, soy sauce, water, garlic and lemon juice. Add the
chicken and pork. Cover tightly and marinate overnight. Roast the
chicken and the pork together in a 350 degree oven until done. The
chicken takes about an hour. The pork takes about an hour and a half.
When cool, cut into matchstick pieces. Set aside. In a wok, or
dee-sided frying pan, warm the oil. Over medium heat, add the celery,
cabbage, onions and mushrooms. Stir fry until celery and onions are
tender. Add chicken and pork. Stir until heated through. Add soy
sauce, salt and pepper to taste. Remove this mixture from heat. Stir
in bean sprouts. When working with egg roll wrappers be sure to cover
them with a damp cloth to prevent them from drying out. To fill each
roll, mound about 2 heaping Tb of filling just below the center of
the egg roll. Fold bottom corner up over filling to cover, then fold
in the two outside corners. Roll closed, sealing shut with a bit of
egg white. Put oil in a wok or large pan to a depth of about 2 inches
~ deep enough to cover the egg rolls.  Over medium-high heat, warm
the oil and carefully add the egg rolls, one at a time. Deep fry
about 2-3 minutes, until golden brown on both sides, turning once.
May be kept warm in 200 degree oven until serving time. Serve with
dipping sauce. DIPPING SAUCE: Combine soy sauce, mustard, garlic
powder, vinegar and brown sugar. NOTE: Egg rolls may be frozen after
frying and cooled. Reheat in oven to serve.

