Title: Dan's Spicy Smoked Spareribs
Categories: Bbq/grill, Pork
Yield: 12 servings
8 lb Pork spareribs, cut into
4-rib sections
MMMMM----------------------DRY INGREDIENTS---------------------------
1 tb Powdered ginger
1 tb Powdered mustard
1 tb Paprika
1/2 tb Salt
1/2 tb Chinese five-spice powder
1 ts Black pepper
1 ts Chili powder
1 ts Powdered sage
1 ts Crushed red pepper
MMMMM-----------------------BASTING SAUCE----------------------------
1/2 ts Tomato juice
1 c  Peach preserves
2 tb Commercial barbecue sauce
2 tb Melted butter or margarine
1 tb Wine vinegar
1 tb Finely minced onion
1 tb Finely minced bell pepper
(red or green)
Juice of one and one-half
Limes
Two or three dashes of
Tabasco sauce
Contributed to the echo by: Dan Perez Dan's Spicy Smoked Spareribs To
get started, place a handful of hickory or mesquite chips into cold
water and set aside. Parboil rib sections in boiling water for about
ten minutes. (This partially cooks them and renders much of the fat.)
Remove rib sections and set on wire rack to cool. Combine dry
ingredients in a bowl and blend well with a fork. When rib sections
are cool, rub the dry ingredient mixture into the meat. Stack rib
sections, seal in aluminum foil and let them sit in the refrigerator
for about two hours.

After two hours, start the coals in your smoker. Combine ingredients
for basting sauce in a blender and blend until smooth. Transfer the
basting sauce to a saucepan and heat over low heat until it begins to
bubble. If you prefer for the basting sauce to be thicker, mix 2
tablespoons of cornstarch with 1/4 cup of cold water, and mix a
little of the cornstarch mixture into the basting sauce a bit at a
time to until desired consistency is achieved.

When the coals are uniform gray, scatter a few of the wet wood chips
over them. Rub grill with a paper towel dipped in vegetable oil.
Brush ribs with basting sauce and place them on the grill. Cover with
smoker lid (leave vents about half-open). Grill the ribs for about an
hour, turning about every fifteen minutes and basting as you turn
them. Add wood chips to the coals as necessary to maintain smoke.

Serve ribs with warm basting sauce.

