Title: Eggplant in a Carriage (Melanzane In Carrozza)
Categories: Italian, Vegetarian
Yield: 20 servings
2    Long, narrow eggplants
(about 1 lb. each), sliced
Crosswise 1/4-inch thick
1 1/2 ts Salt
2 1/4 c  Extra-virgin olive oil
1/4 ts Freshly ground pepper
6 oz Fresh mozzarella cheese,
Sliced 1/8-inch thick
1 cn (2 oz.) anchovy fillets
1/4 c  Fresh basil leaves plus
Several sprigs for garnish
3    Eggs
1/2 c  All-purpose flour
3 c  Fresh Italian bread crumbs
Marinara Sauce as
Accompaniment (optional)
1.  Layer the eggplant slices in a colander, sprinkling each layer
with the salt.  Set aside to drain for at least 1 hour.  Pat the
eggplant dry with paper towels. 2. Preheat the oven to 375F. Using
1/4 c. of the olive oil, brush both sides of each eggplant slice.
Arrange the slices in a single layer on 2 large baking sheets.  Bake
for 15 to 20 minutes, turning once, until the eggplant is tender when
pierced with a fork but still holds its shape. 3. Remove from the
oven; season with eggplant with the pepper. Cover half the eggplant
with mozzarella.  Finely chop the anchovies and basil together;
sprinkle over the cheese.  Cover with the remaining eggplant slices
to form sandwiches. 4. In a medium bowl, beat the eggs with 2
teaspoons of water and 2 teaspoons of the olive oil. Coat the
eggplant sandwiches with the flour, dusting off any excess. Dip into
the beaten egg, then coat the sandwiches thoroughly with the bread
crumbs, pressing gently to adhere. 5. In a large heavy skillet, heat
the remaining oil over moderately high heat to 375F or until a small
bread cube browns in about 1 minute.
Fry the eggplant sandwiches in small batches until golden, 1 to 2
minutes per side.  Remove with a slotted spoon and drain on paper
towels. Arrange the sandwiches on a platter or plates and serve on
their own or with Marinara Sauce, garnished with sprigs of fresh
basil.
(The eggplant sanndwiches can be assembled and fried early in the
day.
Set aside on a cookie sheet at room temperature and reheat in a 400F
oven for about 5 minutes just before serving.)

