Title: Indian Papadams
Categories: Cracker
Yield: 12 servings
2 c  Garbanzo bean (chick-pea)
Flour
1 ts Cracked or coarsely ground
Black pepper
1 ts Ground cumin seed
1/2 ts Salt
1 cl Garlic, pressed
1/4 c  Plus about 1 Tablespoon
Water
Cayenne for dusting tops
Oil for frying (optional)
"Papadams are delicious, spicy Indian crackers that traditionally
require many ingredients and take days to make. They are prepared
ahead in quantity and deep fried just before serving. This is a
simplified version. It still requires time, but the results are worth
it. It is not the easiest of recipes, so if you don't have a perfect
result the first time, try again. You will be glad you did.

Stir together the flour, pepper, ground cumin seed, and salt in a
large bowl or in the food processor. Mix thoroughly until the spices
are evenly distributed. Add the garlic and mix well. Add enough of
the water to form a dough that will hold together in a cohesive ball.
If necessary, add up to 1 additional Tablespoon water. The dough
should be fairly stiff and dry. If it is too wet, it will not roll
well.

Knead the dough for about 5 minutes by hand or pulse for about 15
seconds in the food processor. The dough should be smooth.

With your hands, shape the dough into a cylinder or log about 2 inches
thick and 6 inches long. With a sharp knife, cut the cylinder into
1/2-inch thick slices.

The next step uses oil, so do not use your pastry cloth and rolling
pin sleeve. Place each slice on a lightly oiled surface. Lightly oil
the top of the slice and then roll out into a very thin circle about
6 or 7 inches in diameter. Papadams must be rolled extremely thin,
maximum 1/16 inch. If the dough sticks to your rolling pin, gently
pull it off. Dust the tops of each papadam with cayenne pepper.

Using a metal spatula to loosen the edges of the papadams from the
rolling surface, carefully place them on large baking sheets. The
traditional method for preparing and frying papadams is described
below. You can also bake them in a 300~F. oven for about 15 to 25
minutes, or until crisp and dry. The cooking time may vary beyond
this range depending upon the thickness and moisture in the rolled
dough. Cool them on a rack.

To prepare the papadams in an authentic manner, don't bake them. First
allow them to dry by leaving them in the sun for a few hours or by
placing them in a very low oven (less than 200~F.) for 1 to 2 hours,
turning occasionally. Dry the papadams until they are just slightly
flexible and show no moisture. They should not brown or bake,
however. At this point, the papadams may be stacked flat and stored
in an airtight container until needed. They  will keep for months if
stored properly.

When ready to serve, heat about 1/8 inch of oil in a large skillet.
The oil should be hot, but not smoking. A drop of water flicked into
the skillet should sizzle immediately. One at a time, drop the
papadams into the hot oil. Turn the papadam when it begins to curl at
the edges. It will quickly fry and become crisp. Remove it before it
turns brown.

Cool and drain the papadams on paper towels. Eat them immediately.
Yield: 12.

