Title: Mageritsa (Easter Lamb Soup)
Categories: Greek, Soup/stew
Yield: 8 servings
Intestines, heart, lungs,
& liver of 1 lamb.
1 lamb's feet and tripe, opt
1    Lamb's head (optional)
Salt
2    Lemons (juice only)
1 sm Bunch scallions; chopped
2/3 c  Chopped fresh parsley
1/2 c  Chopped fresh dill
1/4 c  Chopped celery leaves
6 tb Raw long-grain white rice
1/2 ts Aniseed (optional)
Freshly ground pepper
3    Whole eggs
Note: If using the lamb's head, wash it, then soak it in cold water
for 3 hours. Drain. Cut the head in half, using a sharp knife, and
tie with a clean string.

If using the lamb's feet and tripe, prepare as follows: If tripe is
not parially cooked, cut open with a sharp knife and clean the inside
thoroughly under running water. Put in a pan with cold salted water to
cover and soak for 30 minutes, then drain and wash with cold water.
Cut into small pieces and put in a large soup pot with the lamb's
feet. cover with cold water, and simmer until tender, adding salt to
taste during the last minutes of cooking. Cube the tripe, remove the
meat of the feet from the bones, and add to the mageritsa at the same
time as the cut-up intestines, adjusting the liquid by adding more
water.

Clean the intestines thoroughly by turning them inside out, using a
long skewer or stick (this turning will be quicker if the intestines
are first cut into 2-foot lengths), then wash under cold running
water until clean. Rub the intestines with salt and the juice of 1/2
lemon, rinse again in cold water and drain. Braid the intestines or
tie the ends together with clean string. Put in a large soup pot with
the lamb's head, if using, and cove with cold water. Bring to a boil,
then lower the heat, skim, and simmer for 30 minutes. Remove the
intestines, drain them, and cut into 1/4 inch pieces with the
scissors and set aside to add to the soup later. (Use the remaining
portion of the head for another dish.)

Bring the soup stock to a boil and add the scallions, parsley, dill,
and celery leaves. Cut the heart, lungs, and liver into small
bite-sized cubes, and add them to the soup, and simmer for 15
minutes. Add the rice, cut-up intestines, aniseed, salt and pepper to
taste and continue simmering until the rice is tender, approximately
15 minutes, adding more water as needed and the brains during the
last few minutes of cooking.

Half an hour before serving, bring the soup to a boil, then remove
from the heat and prepare the avgolemono: Beat the eggs for 2
minutes. Continue to beat, gradually add the remaining lemon juice.
Then 1 to 2 cups of the hot soup by droplets, beating steadily, until
all has been added. Add the avgolemono to the soup.  Stir over
minimum heat until thickened.  Serve warm but avoid boiling the soup
after adding the avgolemono.

A richer Mageritsa can be made by sauteing the scallions in 3
tablespoons butter or oil before adding to the soup.

From: "The Food of Greece" by Vilma Liacouras Chantiles.  Avenel
Books, New York.

Typed for you by Karen Mintzias

