Title: Queen of Sheba Cake
Categories: Jewish, Cake/cookie, Dessert, Chocolate
Yield: 12 servings
-SANDI BROOKS WFCJ53B
6 oz Semisweet chocolate
14 tb (1 3/4sticks) butter
1/3 c  Sugar
4    Eggs; separated
1 1/2 c  Finely ground blanched almon
6 c  Bundt pan *
3 oz Semisweet chocolate
1 oz Unsweetened chocolate
2 tb Sweet butter
MMMMM---------------------------ICEING--------------------------------
1/2 c  Confectioners sugar**
3 tb Water
1 c  Whipped cream (optional)
*or a 9" round cake pan or springform pan.
** (Not considered Kosher for Passover) Adjust a rack to the center
of the oven. Preheat oven to 350 Butter the inside of the pan and
sprinkle with matzoh meal for Passover; or flour if it is not for
Passover. Shake out the excess. If using round pan, cut a circle of
parchment to fit the bottom, place the parchment inside, butter and
dust the parchment with flour or matzoh meal. Melt the chocolate in
the top of a double boiler Cream the butter and sugar until light and
fluffy. Add the egg yolks, beating well after each addition. Stir in
the almonds and the melted chocolate, blending well. Beat the egg
whites until they hold their shape, then stir 2 heaping Tablespoons
into the chocolate mixture. Carefully fold in the remaining whites.
Pour batter into pan. Bake at middle level for 45 minutes. Cake
should be slightly underdone. Allow to cool in the pan, then turn out
to ice.

ICING Melt the chocolate for the icing in the top of a double boiler
Cut the butter into small pieces and sift the sugar Add the butter to
the chocolate, a little at a time, then stirring the sugar. Remove
from the heat and add the water, beating with a whisk until smooth.
If icing seems too thick, add a little extra water. Pour immediately
over the cake. Allow to set for 2 hours. Serves 8-10.

This is a version of a recipe I have used almost every year for
Passover. The next version is the one I use and love. It is like a
giant brownie. Sandi in CT 03/12 09:11 am Re-Formatted by Elaine
Radis; 3/92

