Title: Sizzling Beef Fajitas
Categories: Tex/mexican, Beef
Yield: 8 servings
4 cl Garlic, minced
1 tb Lime juice
1/3 c  Worcestershire or soy sauce
4    Serrano chilles, stemmed
And minced
1/4 c  Apple cider vinegar
14 cn Beef broth
2 tb Safflower oil
2    Yellow or white onions,
Thinly sliced
2    Bell peppers, thinly sliced
4    Limes, cut in half
1 c  Sour cream
3 lb Skirt steak, 1/2 inch thick
MMMMM--------------------------MARINADE-------------------------------
Flour tortillas
Pico de gallo
Guacamole
Originally from: "Austin American=Stateman, May 24, 1990 Sizzling Beef
Fajitas

At least 3 hours before grilling the meat, trim it to remove all fat
and gristle. For skirt steak, use a flat metal pounder to tenderize.
{This is needed because of the short marinading time.} Put the meat
in a shallow glass dish or plastic bag. Combine the marinade
ingredients. Marinate for about 3 hours in refrigerator.

About 45 minutes before serving, clean the grill surface and rub it
with an oil dampened cloth. Preheat the grill for about 30 minutes.
Remove the meat from the marinade. Sprinkle the meat and salt and
pepper and place it on the grill. Baste with marinade, grill, then
turn, baste again and grill until medium rare, about 5-6 minutes in
all, or until desired doneness. Remove, cover with foil and keep warm.

Heat 2 TBSP oil in a cast-iron skillet over medium-high heat. Add the
onions and cook until browned, but still crisp. Remove and add bell
peppers. Saute about 2 minutes and add onions. Remove the skillet
from the heat.

Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F. Wrap the tortillas or pita breads
in foil and heat until warm, 8-10 minutes. {Or zap 'em in a microwave
for 15 to 25 seconds per tortilla, depending on your microwaves
strength. Or grill 'em on the coals for a few seconds, or in another
cast iron skillet for a few seconds.}

Cut the beef across the grain into strips about 1/4 inch thick.
Reserve all the juices. Put the skillet back on high heat long enough
to get hot, then add the meat. It will sizzle. Turn immediately, then
put the onions and peppers on top. Pour the reserved juices on top to
create a sizzle. (For an even more dramatic sizzle, you can drizzle
the meat and onions with 2 TBSP oil instead of the reserved juices.)
Carry the skillet immediately to the table. Sqeeze lime juice on top.
To serve, use tortillas to enclose meat strips, peppers, onions, pico
de gallo, guacamole, and sour cream.

Makes 8 servings.

From "Foods of the Sun"

