Title: Speedy Pat-In Pastry
Categories: Pie/tart
Yield: 1 servings
1 1/2 c  Flour
1 1/2 ts Sugar
3/4 ts -Salt
1/2 c  Oil; corn
3 T  Milk; cold
"I could never never make a good pie crust. My crusts were always
tough or crumbly, no matter what recipe I'd try. Whenever we had a
family get-together and I'd offer to make a pie, my sister or my
niece would say, "No, Ednie, don't bother. You bring the vegetables,
I'll make a pie." But since my sister Norm gave me her recipe for a
pat-in pie crust, I've had incredible success! Every time! The family
no longer reject my offerings. My crust are crisp and tasty and
golden. The edges may not be perfectly fluted like Norm's are but
that's not important. Pat-in crust is so easy to make. I put all the
ingredients into my food processor, give them a brief whirl, and pour
the mixture into a pie plate. I pat it firmly ~ around the edges
first, then through the middle - and that's it. No rolling or wasting
bits of pastry, and so fast that it can be done in five minutes.
Norm doesn't mix her crust in her food processor. She let her
husband, Ralph, blend the ingredients with a fork in the pie plate.
Then he can proudly say he made it..."

Sift flour, sugar and salt directly in 9-10" pie plate. Combine oil
and milk in measuring cup and beat with fork till creamy. Pour all at
once over flour in pie plate; give your food processor a brief whirl
or -in a pie plate mix with a fork till flour is completely dampened.
Push the dough with your fingers to line bottom and sides of pan,
then fill with whatever filling you've chosen.

If you are making a baked pie shell to be filled later, prick the
pastry with a fork to keep it from bubbling. Bake at 425F for 15
minutes or until golden. Fill If you're fussy, press it down with a
pie plate. Flute the edges.

Source: Edna Staebler's Schmecks cookbooks NB: To extend a pie to
serve more than 6 or 8, then pat the pastry into a 9" X 13" cake pan,
spread the filling over it and when baked, cut into 12 squares.
posted by Anne MacLellan

