Title: Wheat Berry Whizzes
Categories: Cracker
Yield: 35 servings
1 1/3 c  Raw wheat berries (whole
Wheat kernels)
4 c  Water for either soaking or
Cooking the wheat berries
1    Egg, lightly beaten
1/4 c  Oil
1/2 c  Whole wheat or all-purpose
Flour
Oil for brushing the tops
Salt for the tops (opt.)
"These crackers have an intense wheat flavor that comes from using the
whole grain. Enjoy them alone or with fresh fruit, such as pears and
peaches. 350~F. 25 to 30 minutes

Cover the wheat berries with the water and soak overnight. Or, if you
want to make the crackers the same day, cook the berries in the water
over a moderate heat for 20 minutes, or until they are tender. Drain
the berries in a sieve for 10 minutes. They should be well drained,
but not dry.

Preheat the oven to 350~F.

Put the wheat berries into the food processor and process them to a
pulp. If you do not have a food processor, use your blender,
processing about 1/3 cup at a time. Blend until there are no whole
berries left. Place the pulp in a large bowl and blend in the egg and
the oil.

With your hands, work in enough of the flour to form a dough that
will hold together in a cohesive ball. Divide it into 2 equal
portions for rolling. On a floured surface or pastry cloth, roll out
to a thickness of 3/16 inch.

Cut the dough into 2- by 3-inch rectangles. With a metal spatula,
transfer the individual crackers to an ungreased baking sheet. This
dough has a tendency to tear before it is baked, so treat it gently.
Be sure to cut all the way through the dough before trying to lift
the crackers.

Brush the tops with oil and sprinkle lightly and evenly with salt, if
desired. Bake for 15 minutes. Turn the crackers over, brush the tops
again, and bake for another 10 to 15 minutes, or until they are
lightly browned. Cool on racks. Yield: 30-35.

VARIATION: If you like cinnamon toast, try the following: After
turning and brushing, sprinkle a little sugar and cinnamon on the
freshly brushed tops and continue to bake as directed.

