Title: DEEP-DISH CHICKEN PIE
Categories: Pies, Poultry, Main dishes
Yield: 8 Servings
5 lb Broiler-fryers,cut-up
1/2 ts Pepper
1/2 ts Marjoram leaves
Water
Salt
2    Carrots,large,sliced
1    Celery stalk,large,sliced
3/4 lb Onions,small,white
Flour,all-purpose
1 3/4 c  Half-and-half
1 pk Lima beans,baby,frozen(10oz)
1/2 lb Mushrooms,small
1 c  Shortening
2 tb Shortening
1    Egg yolk
1. In 5-quart Dutch oven or saucepot over high heat, heat chickens,
pepper, marjoram, 4 cups water, and 2 teaspoon salt to boiling.
Reduce heat to low; cover and simmer 35 minutes or until chicken is
fork-tender.
2. When chicken is done, reserve 1 cup broth. Cool chicken until easy
to handle; remove and discard bones and skin; cut meat into 1"
pieces.
3. In 3-quart saucepan over high heat, heat carrots, celery, onions,
and reserved 1 cup chicken broth to boiling. Reduce heat to low;
cover and simmer 10 minutes or until vegetables are almost tender.
Remove from heat. With slotted spoon, remove vegetables to
medium-sized bowl.
4. In small bowl, blend 1/2 cup flour with 3/4 cup half-and-half;
gradually stir into broth in saucepan; stir in remaining
half-and-half. Over low heat, cook, stirring until sauce thickens
slightly. Stir in chicken, cooked vegetables, thawed lima beans,
mushrooms, and 1 1/2 teaspoon salt. Spoon mixture into 13x9" baking
dish.
5. Prepare pastry: In medium-sized bowl, stir 3 cups all-purpose
flour and 1 1/2 teaspoon salt. With pastry blender or two knives used
scissors fashion, cup shortening into flour to resemble coarse
crumbs. Sprinkle about 1/2 cup water, a tablespoon at a time, into
flour mixture, mixing lightly with a fork until pastry is just moist
enough to hold together; shape pastry into a ball.
6. On lightly floured surface with floured rolling pin, roll
two-thirds of dough into 15x11" rectangle. With knife, cut several
small slits in center of pastry. Place pastry loosely over chicken
mixture. Trim pastry edge, leaving 1" overhang; fold overhang under
and press gently all around baking dish to make a high stand-up edge.
Roll and cut remaining dough to make decorative design for top of
pie.
7. In cup, beat egg yolk with 1 teaspoon water. Brush pastry with
egg-yolk mixture. Bake pie in 350'F oven 1 hour or until crust is
golden and chicken mixture is heated through.

