Title: DEVIL'S FOOD CAKE - COUNTRY LIVING HOLIDAYS
Categories: Holidays, Desserts, Cakes
Yield: 12 Servings
1/4 c  Butter or margarine,
-softened
1 1/2 c  Sugar
1/4 ts Salt
1 tb Vanilla
3/4 c  Unsweetened cocoa
3 1/2 c  Unsifted cakeflour
2 ts Baking soda
2 1/2 c  Water
4    Egg whites, at room temp.
Cocoa frosting, recipe
-follows
Chocolate glaze, recipe
-follows
Confectioners' sugar and
-unsweetened cocoa (opt.
-for checkerboard
-decoration)
1. Heat oven to 350'F. Generously grease and flour three 9-inch round
cake pans.

2. In a large bowl with electric beater or mixer, beat butter, 3/4 C
sugar, salt, and vanilla together until fluffy.

3. Combine cocoa, flour, and soda in a sifter. Sift into bowl on top
of butter mixture. Add water and beat at low speed just until smooth.

4. With clean beaters in a medium bowl, beat egg whites until fluffy.
Gradually add remaining 3/4 C sugar. Continue beating until stiff
peaks form. Fold, one-third at a time, into chocolate batter.

5. Divide batter evenly into prepared pans. Bake until centers spring
back when touched-20 to 25 minutes.

6. Cool 5 minutes in pans. Turn out on cooling rack and cool
completely.

7. Prepare cocoa frosting. Fill and assemble cake. Spread a thin
smooth layer of frosting over cake. Refrigerate 1 hour.

8. Prepare chocolate glaze. Place chilled cake on a cooling rack with
a tray underneath it. Spoon glaze onto top of cake. Spread evenly
allowing glaze to flow down sides. Smooth sides.

9. Place cake, still on cooling rack with tray, in refrigerator until
glaze is firm.

10. Decorate top with cocoa and confectioners' sugar checkerboard just
before serving, if desired. Place 1-inch strips of thin cardboard
gently onto frosting 1-inch apart. Sift unsweetened cocoa over top of
cake to solidly fill spaces. Carefully remove and clean strips. Place
gently in opposite direction. Sift confectioners' sugar over cake.
Remove strips.

Cocoa Frosting: In a medium bowl, beat together 1/3 C softened butter
or margarine, 1 1/2 lb confectioners' sugar, 1/3 C unsweetened cocoa,
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon, 3/4 t vanilla and 1/3 to 1/2 C milk. Use
to fill and frost cake.

Chocolate Glaze: In the top of a double boiler, over hot (not boiling)
water, melt 6 1-oz squares semisweet chocolate and 4 T butter. Stir
in 3 T cold water and 1/4 C confectioners' sugar until smooth. Use to
glaze a 9-inch cake.

Country Living Holidays/92  Scanned & fixed by Di Pahl & <gg>

