Title: DINNER PARTY PAELLA
Categories: Poultry, Sausages, Fish*shell, Casseroles, Spanish
Yield: 4 Servings
1/2 lb Chorizo sausage
1 3/4 lb Chicken legs
1 tb Olive oil
1/4 ts Saffron threads
3 c  Chicken stock, warm
1    Onion, chopped
2    Garlic cloves, minced
28 oz Canned tomatoes
1 sm Sweet green pepper, diced
1 1/2 c  Short-grain rice
1/2 ts Salt
1/2 ts Pepper
1/2 c  Frozen peas
3/4 lb Large raw shrimp
3/4 lb Mussels
2    Green onions, minced
8    Lemon wedges
Authentic Spanish paella gets its name from the shallow two-handled
pan in which it is cooked. There are only three 'must have'
ingredients - short-grain rice for its velvety creaminess, saffron
for its taste and golden hue, plus olive oil - most paellas include a
colourful selection of sweet peppers, green peas, seafood, chicken
and spicy chorizo sausage, which simmers to doneness as the rice
plumps.

1. Cut sausage into 1/2-inch thick slices. Remove skin from chicken;
trim off fat. Using sharp heave knife, cut through chicken leg at
joint to separate thigh from drumstick.

2. In large paella pan or deep wide skillet, hat oil over high heat;
cook sausage, stirring, for 2 minutes or until browned. Remove to
platter. Reduce heat to medium. Add chicken and cook for 7-10 minutes
per side or until evenly browned. Add to platter.

3. Stir saffron into chicken stock; set aside to soften. Add onion and
garlic to pan; cook, stirring, for 4 minutes or until softened. Add
stock mixture, tomatoes and green pepper; bring to boil, breaking up
tomatoes with back of spoon and stirring to scrape up any brown bits
from bottom of pan [deglaze].

4. Stir in rice, salt and pepper; reduce heat to low. Add chicken;
simmer gently, stirring often, for 20 minutes. Gently stir in peas
and sausage.

5. Meanwhile, peel and devein shrimp. Scrub mussels under running
water. With shears, trim off beards. Discard any mussels with cracked
shells or ones that do not close when tapped.

6. Nestle shrimp and mussels in rice until almost covered; cook for
7-10 minutes or until rice is tender, shrimp are pink and mussels are
open. Discard any mussels that do not open.

Garnish with onions and lemon.

Test Kitchen tip: you can use clams instead of mussels, omit the
seafood altogether and double up the chicken, or replace chorizo with
any spicy sausage.

To make a fluffier paella with parboiled long-grain rice: cook,
covered adding 1/2 cup more stock near end of cooking to prevent
sticking. Garnish with trimmed fresh artichoke brushed with lemon
juice to prevent browning.

Source: Canadian Living magazine Cooking Lesson: Nov, 94 developed by
Canadian Living Test Kitchen.

[paella pans were available from Cdn Living as stock item #1687,
$54.95Cdn [Nov 94] by calling 905-847-6205]

[nutrition info not avail in magazine]

[-=PAM=-]

