Title: DOLMADES YIALANDZI (STUFFED GRAPEVINE LEAVES)
Categories: Greek, Appetizers, Vegetarian
Yield: 60 Servings
3/4 c  Olive oil
1/2 sm Onion; chopped
8    Scallions; chopped fine
2 lg Garlic cloves; chopped
1 c  Raw long-grain rice
1 bn Fresh dill; chopped
1/2 bn Fresh parsley; chopped
1 1/2    Lemons (or more), juice only
Salt & freshly ground pepper
1 c  Hot water
1 lb Jar grapevine leaves
Heat the 1/2 cup oil in a skillet.  Add the onion and scallions and
saute for about 5 minutes, until soft and transparent. Add the garlic
and cook for a few minutes, then add the rice, dill, parsley, lemon
juice, salt, pepper, and remaining 1/4 cup olive oil. Stir well, then
add the hot water. Cover and simmer about 5 minutes. Remove from the
heat and cool. Meanwhile, carefully remove the grapevine leaves from
the jar, leaving the brine in the jar.  Wash grapevine leaves
thoroughly and drain, then with a sharp knife cut the heavy stems
from the leaves. (If using fresh grapevine leaves use the same
procedure, parboiling leaves for 5 minutes when not tender, then
drain.) Line an enameled pan with a few heavy grapevine leaves and
set aside.  To stuff a grapevine leaf, put it on your working surface
rough side up and stem end near you, and place a teaspoonful of the
rice mixture near the stem end. Using both hands, fold the part of
the leaf near you up and over the filling.  Then fold the right side
of the leaf over the filling, then the left side, and roll tightly
and back away from you and toward the pointed end of leaf.  Place the
"dolma", seam side down, in the prepared pan.   Continue stuffing
grapevine leaves until the mixture has been used. (If any grapevine
leaves remain, replace in the reserved brine for future use.)  Place
an inverted plate on the dolmades, then add enough water to cover the
dolmades (about 1 to 1-1/2 cups). Bring to a boil, then cover the
pan, lower the heat, and simmer as slowly as possible for 1-1/4
hours, then taste one to see if the rice is tender, and continue
cooking slowly if necessary.  Cool, then chill.  Serve cold, as an
appetizer or as an entree. Note: An important variation, particularly
in Macedonia and Thrace: add a few tablespoons of raisins and pine
nuts to the filling when adding the rice. Also, you may vary the size
of dolmades as you wish by adding 1-1/2 teaspoons of the filling.
However, be consistent to allow them to cook at the same rate. They
may be stored in the refrigerator for a week or so.

