Title: DOLMAS (GREEK STUFFED GRAPE LEAVES)
Categories: Greek, Rice, Appetizers
Yield: 50 Servings
1 c  Long-grain white rice
1 c  Plus 3 Tbsp olive oil
1 c  Finely chopped yellow onion
3    Green onions, including
-green tops, finely chopped
1/4 c  Minced fresh parsley
2 tb Minced fresh mint
1/2 c  Pine nuts
1 ts Ground cinnamon
1/2 ts Ground allspice
1/2 ts Salt
1/4 ts Freshly ground black pepper
16 oz Jar grape leaves
Servings: makes about 50 dolmas

Several stems of fresh parsley About 3/4 cup freshly squeezed lemon
juice About 1 cup homemade chicken stock, canned chicken broth, or
water, heated Additional freshly squeezed lemon juice Grated or
minced lemon zest for garnish

Wash and drain rice.  Heat 3 Tbsp of the olive oil in a skillet over
medium-high heat.  Add the yellow onion and saute until soft but not
brown, about 5 minutes. Transfer to a mixing bowl and add the drained
rice, 1/2 cup of the remaining olive oil, green onions, parsley, pine
nuts, cinnamon, allspice, salt, and pepper. Set aside.

Rinse the grape leaves under running cold water to removes as much
brine as possible, pat dry, and stack on a plate. Place 1 leaf at a
time, shiny side down, on a flat work surface. Cut off and discard
the tough stem end. Spoon about 1 Tbsp of the rice mixture in the
center near the base of the leaf. Fold the stem end over to cover the
filling, fold both side inward lengthwise and then tightly roll leaf
toward pointed tip end to form a compact packet.  Repeat with the
remaining leaves and filling.

Pour about 2 Tbsp. of the remaining olive oil in the bottom of a
large pot and strew with a layer of parsley stems to prevent grape
leaves from sticking. Arrange the stuffed leaves, seam side down and
almost touching, on top of the parsley, making as many layers as
necessary. Drizzle the remaining 5 Tbsp olive oil, the lemon juice,
and 1/2 cup stock, broth, or water over the leaves. Top with a
heat-resistant plate and weight with a heavy can to keep leaves from
unwinding during cooking. Cover the pot, bring to a gentle boil,
reduce the heat to low, and cook until rice is tender, about 1 hour.
During cooking, add a little heated liquid as needed to keep dolmas
moist.  Remove from the heat and cool in the pot.

Sprinkle with lemon juice to taste, garnish with lemon zest, and
serve at room temperature.

Source: Rice by James McNair Posted by Linda Davis

