Title: DOMATES YEMISTES ( STUFFED TOMATOES )
Categories: Main dish
Yield: 6 Servings
12    Firm, ripe tomatoes
Salt
Granulated sugar
3 tb Olive oil or butter
1 md Onion; finely chopped
2    Garlic cloves; chopped
1/4 c  Chopped fresh parsley
1/2 lb Lean lamb or veal, ground
1/4 c  Dry white wine
1/4 c  Water
6 tb Raw long-grain white rice
Tomato juice (if necessary)
Freshly ground pepper
2    Sprigs fresh mint or basil
1 pn Grated nutmeg
Wash the tomatoes, then turn each stem-side down, and with a sharp
knife carefully cut the end now up to make an opening or "cap" being
careful not to detach the cap entirely. With a small spoon,
carefully, without breaking the outer skin of the tomatoes, scoop the
pulp into a bowl. Place the tomato shells in a baking-serving dish
large enough to support them touching.  Sprinkle the inside of the
shells with salt and sugar. Meanwhile, prepare the stuffing.  Heat
the oil in a heavy skillet and add the onions.  Cook over moderate
heat until soft and transparent, then add the garlic and parsley, and
blend. Add the meat, mashing with a fork, then add the wine and
water, cover, and simmer for a few minutes. Add the rice and tomato
pulp and stir. (Tomato juice may be added if necessary, since the
mixture should provide enough liquid for the rice to absorb.) Cover
the skillet and simmer about 7 minutes, then add salt, pepper, mint
or basil, and nutmeg.  Taste for seasoning. Remove from heat, and
fill the tomatoes up about two-thirds of the way with the stuffing
and liquid. Cover with tomato caps, brush with oil. Bake in a
moderate oven (350 F) until the rice is tender (approximately 50
minutes to 1 hour), basting inside the tomatoes with liquid released
by them. Serve warm. Note: For Tomatoes stuffed with Rice, use 1 1/4
cups raw long-grain white rice instead of the meat and rice in the
above recipe, eliminate the wine, and include with the other
seasonings a few tablespoons each of black raisins and 2 tablespoons
pine nuts, if desired.  Rice in baked stuffed dishes takes much
longer to cook then over a burner. Stuffed green peppers, also
popular in Greece, can be made the same way with an entirely
different flavor.

