Title: DOUBLE-CRUSTED PIZZA FROM SOUTHERN ITALY (EW)
Categories: Main dish, Pizzas
Yield: 1 Pizza
3 lb Mixed greens, such as
-spinach, Swiss chard,
-escarole and/or broccoli
-rabe
1/4 c  Golden raisins
1 tb Olive oil
1/2 lb Onions (3 medium), peeled,
-halved and sliced
2    Cloves garlic, crushed
-with flat blade of knife
24    Black olives, pitted &
-coarsly chopped
1/4 c  Pine nuts
6    Anchovy fillets, rinsed &
-coarsley chopped
1 1/2 lb Pizza Dough
1    Egg, beaten with water
Note - This double-crusted pizza used to be a Christmas Eve tradition
in Napoli, but it is now found all over the south. Try for a good
balance of bitter and sweet greens.

Set rack on lowest level of oven; preheat to 375 F. Lightly oil a 10
inch springform pan or spray with nonstick cooking spray. Dust with
flour and shake out excess.

Rinse out greens, trim away tough stem ends and slice tender stems and
leaves into 1 inch lengths.  In a small bowl, soak raisins in warm
water for 10 minutes, then drain.

Meanwhile, in a pan large enough to hold all the greens, heat olive
oil over medium heat.  Add onions and garlic; cook, stirring often,
until light golden, 4 to 5 minutes. Stir in the greens, cover and
cook until wilted, 5 to 7 minutes.  If necessary, add a little water
from time to tome to keep the greens from scorching. Stir in olives,
pine nuts, anchovies and the plumped raisins.  Cook over medium-low
heat or 2 to 3 minutes longer. Season with salt and pepper and let
cool completely.

Divide dough into 2 pieces, one a bit larger than the other. On a
lightly floured surface, roll out the larger of the two pieces into a
circle that is 14 inches in diameter and 1/4 inch thick. Place in the
prepared springform pan, allowing a little dough to hang over the
edge. Fill the pie with the vegetable mixture. Roll out the second
piece of dough into a 10 inch diameter circle.  Place it over the
filling, fold in edges of the bottom crust and pinch the crust
together. Brush the top with a little of the beaten egg mixture and
poke holes in it to let the steam escape during baking.

Bake for 40 to 45 minutes, or until golden and crisp. Remove from the
oven and let sit for 15 minutes before serving. Serves 6

Entered by: Diane Pahl (1:2410/120) Recipes from: Eating Well, The
Magazine of Food and Health (tm) ISSN 1064-16399

