Title: DOUBLE MOCHA MADNESS * PART 2 OF 2
Categories: Ice cream, Desserts, Chocolate
Yield: 6 Servings
MMMMM--------------------DIRECTIONS CONTINUE-------------------------
To prepare the ice cream, heat 1 inch of water in the bottom half of a
double boiler over medium-high heat. Place the semi-sweet and
unsweetened chocolates, coffee, and instant espresso powder in the
top half of the double boiler. Tightly cover the top with film wrap.
Heat for 6 to 8 >>> minutes, then remove from the heat and stir until
smooth. Set aside until needed. Heat the heavy cream, half-and-half,
and 1/2 cup granulated sugar in a 2 1/2-qt saucepan over medium-high
heat. Stir to dissolve the sugar. Bring the cream to a boil. While
the cream is heating, place the egg yolks and the remaining 1/2 cup
sugar in the bowl of an electric mixer fitted with a paddle. Beat the
eggs on high for 2 to 2 1/2 minutes. Scrape down the sides of the
bowl. Contine to beat on high until slightly thickened and
lemon-colored, about 2 1/2 to 3 minutes. (At this point, the cream
should be boiling. If not, adjust the mixer to low and continue to
mix until the cream ils. If this is not done, the egg yolks will
develop undesirable lumps. Pour the boiling cream into the beaten egg
yolks and whisk to combine. Return to the saucepan and heat over
medium-high heat, stirring constantly, until the cream reaches a
temperature of 185 degrees, 2 to 4 minutes. Remove from the heat and
transfer to a stainless steel bowl. Add the melted chocolate mixture
and whisk to combine. Cool the ixture in an ice-water bath to a
temperature for 40 o 45 degrees, abou t 20 minutes Freeze in an
ice-cream freezer following the manufacturer's instructions. Transfer
the semi-frozen ice cream to a plastic container. Using a rubbe
spatula, fold in the frozen, chopped pralines Securely cover the
container, then place in the freezer for several hours before
serving. Serve within 3 days. Yields 1
1/2    quarts. Source: Death By Chocolate Cookbook by Marcel
Desaulniers

