Title: DRY RUB & MOP
Categories: Sauces, Rubs
Yield: 1 Servings
DRY RUB:
1/2 c  Paprika
1/4 c  Golden brown sugar
1/8 c  Salt
1/8 c  Granulated garlic
1/8 c  Chipotle peppers -- ground
1 tb Celery salt
1 tb Onion powder
1 tb Freshly cracked black
Pepper
1 tb Chimayo red chile -- ground
MOP:
14 1/2 oz Canned chicken broth
1/2 c  Orange juice
2 tb Worcestershire sauce
2 tb Above listed rub
I like the rub a lot. Needs more black pepper, though. To me, the
thing that makes this outstanding is the chipotles. And note that
these are not the canned ones in adobo - they're dried. This makes
their smokiness a bit more intense. You might not be able to find
them, so just them out. Same for the red chiles - or you could use
cayenne instead. Experiment! Be merry!

The mop wasn't bad, but I'll try something new next time. As far as
I'm concerned, it needs more tinkering.

For the trout, the rub consisted only of lemon pepper. The mop was
some terriyaki sauce with a little sugar mixed in. That's it!

As far as technique goes, this is what I did:

~ Night before: apply rub and pop food back in fridge. ~ Next day:
take food out of fridge and rest for an hour while smoker is coming
up to temp (220degF or so). - Put chickens on. Mop after first hour,
then every half hour after that. In retrospect, I will not mop this
often in the future. Once per hour will probably do me. Total smoking
time was about 6 hours. High winds. This was a problem, so your
mileage may vary. I did move the birds around so as to get more even
heat districution. Probably did that twice. - Put trout on. Mopped
whenever I mopped the chickens. Total smoking time was about 2 hours.
~ Although the trout was consumed immediately, I let the chickens
rest for about an hour afterwards.

I worried more about the chickens than I did about the trout, and I
think this affected the flavor - the trout was better! Don't fret too
much over this - it's supposed to be fun, right?
:^)

So that's it. Comments and musings always welcome. Have a super
weekend everybody!

: Jody Baze
Recipe By

