Title: Americana Banana Roll
Categories: Tvfn
Yield: 4 servings
1 c  Sifted cake flour
1/2 ts Baking soda
1/8 ts Baking powder
1/8 ts Salt
1 lg Egg, room temperature
1/2 c  (1 large) mashed ripe
Banana
1 tb Sour cream
1 ts Lemon zest
5 1/2 tb Unsalted butter, room
Temperature
1/2 c  Granulated sugar
Position rack in lower third of oven; preheat oven to 375 degrees.
Using a paper towel, lightly grease a small area in the center of a
12 x 15 1/2 x 1/2-inch baking sheet with solid shortening, and line
the pan with foil, leaving a 2-inch overhang at each short end (the
dab of shortening holds the foil in place). Lightly grease the foil
with shortening, and sprinkle with allpurpose flour. Shake the pan to
distribute flour, and tap out excess.

Pour the flour, baking soda, baking powder, and salt in that order
into the triple sifter or sieve. Sift onto a sheet of waxed paper to
distribute the ingredients; set aside. Crack the egg into a small
bowl, and whisk briefly just to combine the yolk and white. Combine
the mashed banana, sour cream, and lemon zest in a small bowl; set
aside.

Place the butter in the bowl of a heavyduty mixer. With the flat
beater (paddle), cream the butter on medium speed (#5) for 30 to 45
seconds, or until it is smooth and lighter in color. (This is a small
amount in a large bowl, but you can adjust most heavyduty machines so
the attachment reaches lower in the bowl.) Maintaining the same
speed, add the sugar in a steady stream. Then stop the mixer, and
scrape the mixture slinging to the sides into the center of the bowl.
Continue to cream at the same speed until the mixture is light in
color and fluffy in appearance (about 3 to 4 minutes).

With the mixer still on medium speed, pour in the egg, very
cautiously at first, as if you were adding oil when making
mayonnaise. Continue to cream for 1 to 2 more minutes, scraping the
sides of the bowl at least once. When the mixture is quite fluffy and
has increased in volume, detach the beater and bowl. Tap the beater
against the edge of the bowl to free the excess.

With the aid of a metal spatula, lift half the flour mixture, and
sprinkle it over the creamed mixture. Stir it in with a rubber
spatula. Then add the mashed banana mixture, stirring to blend.
Scrape the sides of the bowl with each addition. Add the remaining
flour mixture, and stir until smooth.

Scoop the thick batter onto five different areas over twothirds of the
prepared baking sheet. With a metal spatula, spread and coax the
batter to cover the twothirds of the sheet. Now extend it to the rest
of the sheet in as even a layer as possible. (At first you will not
believe it will cover the entire sheet, but it will. You do not have
to rush. The layer will be very thin, but that is just the way it
should be. It will increase in volume in the oven.) Bake for 8 to 10
minutes, or until the cake is light golden brown, the sides are
beginning to contract from the metal, and the cake springs back when
lightly touched in the center. Remove the pan from the oven. Using a
thinbladed knife, gently release any portion of the cake sticking to
the long sides of the pan. Pull up on the foil overhangs, one at a
time, to release foil from the pan's edges. Finally, loosen foil from
the bottom of the pan by gently lifting up on the flaps, and transfer
it to a large rack to cool.

Place a sheet of foil over the cake, and manipulate the foil in a tent
fashion (this holds in the moisture as it cools, but prevents
sticking to the cake). Cool for 30 minutes.

Yield: one 12 x 15 1/2-inch cake

BAKERS' DOZEN FLO BRAKER SHOW #BD1A14

Banana sheet cake:

