Title: Apple Dumplings
Categories: Live
Yield: 4 servings
Baked Apples:
6 sm Rome Beauty, Granny Smith or
Golden Delicious apples
1/2 sm Lemon
1/2 c  Light brown sugar
1/2 ts Cinnamon
3    Tablespoons, about 1-ounce,
Dark or golden raisins or
Currants
2 tb Unsalted butter
1/3 c  Apricot preserves
1/3 c  Water
2/3    Batch Quickest Puff Pastry,
Recipe follows
Egg Wash:
1    Egg beaten well with a pinch
Salt
To make the baked apples, set a rack at the middle level of the oven
and preheat to 350 degrees. Peel and core the apples, leaving them
whole. Rub them all over with the lemon, then place them in the
baking pan. Sprinkle them with the sugar and cinnamon, making sure
that some gets into the hollow centers. Stuff the raisins or currants
into the centers then place a small slice of the butter on each apple.

Bring the preserves and water to a boil in a small pan. Pour around
the apples in the pan, then immediately place the pan in the oven.
After about 10 minutes, baste the apples every 5 minutes with their
juices. The apples should take about 30 minutes to bake. They should
be tender but not disintegrating.

Remove the pan from the oven and place it on a rack to cool. Baste the
apples with the juices in the pan frequently while they are cooling,
then cover and refrigerate the apples until they are thoroughly cold,
about 2 to 3 hours. The apples may be prepared up to 2 days before
forming and baking the pastries.

To form the pastries, remove the apples from the pan and place them
on a rack over the pan to drain. (Reserve any leftover juices to make
a sauce.) Set a rack at the middle level of the oven and preheat to
375 degrees.

Place the dough on a floured surface and lightly flour the dough.
Roll the dough out into a 10 by 18-inch rectangle. Cut the dough into
six 5-inch squares and place them on the prepared pan. Use a small,
round, fluted cutter to cut the remaining scrap of dough into 6 small
circles.

Brush the squares of dough lightly with egg wash. Place an apple in
the center of each square. (Replace any raisins or currants that
might have fallen out of the centers.) Bring each corner of the dough
up to the top center of the apple. Pinch the seams of the pastry
together, then carefully brush the outside with the egg wash. Place
one of the fluted pastry circles on top of each pastry, where the
corners join together. Brush the fluted dough with egg wash. Bake the
pastries about 20 to 25 minutes, until deep golden and baked through.
Place the pan on a rack to cool slightly before you serve the apples.

Yield: 6 servings

COOKING LIVE SHOW #CL8988

All recipes courtesy of Nick Malgieri

