Title: Avocado Soup
Categories:
Yield: 46 servings
MMMMM------------------TOO HOT TAMALES #TH6300-----------------------
1 tb Canola oil
2    Yellow onions, chopped,
About 2 cups
4    Cloves garlic, chopped
2    Jalapeno chiles, stemmed,
Seeded if desired, and
Minced
45    Ripe Haas avocados, peeled
And cut into chunks
1 qt Chicken stock
1/2 c  Crema, creme fraiche or sour
Cream
1/2 c  Chopped cilantro
2 tb Lime juice
MMMMM------------------CORN AND TOMATO GARNISH-----------------------
16    Ears corn, roasted or boiled
Kernels cut off and
Reserved
16    Italian Roma tomatoes,
Seeded and diced
16    Scallions, washed and sliced
Into thin rings
3 ts Salt
1 1/2 ts Pepper
8 tb Crema; creme fraiche or sour
Cream
Heat oil in Dutch oven over low heat; add onions, garlic, jalapenos,
salt and pepper and cook, stirring, 10 minutes or until translucent.
Add avocados and stock and bring to the simmer. Simmer 1520 minutes
or until avocados are soft. Add cream, being back to a simmer, then
puree with immersion blender until very smooth. Stir in cilantro and
lime and serve, topped with corn and tomato garnish.

Cooking the avocados preserves their bright color when chilled.

Corn and tomato garnish: Stir together corn kernels with all other
ingredients in a small bowl. Serve 2 spoonfuls on top of Avocado Soup.

All of these pureed soups are delicious hot and delicious cold.
Yields are high to allow for leftovers! Soups will be thicker when
cold so thin if desired with milk, cream, stock or water.

These recipes showcase our friends the food mill (which purees and
separates) and immersion blender (purees in the pot, no muss, no
fuss, no bother). Great tools for purees.

Any of these pureed soups lend themselves to other garnish:

a dollop of crema, creme fraiche or sour cream a sprinkling of herbs a
spoonful of red or green salsa (crunchy texture contrast) freshly
fried tortilla chips floating on top

Nutritional information per serving:  xx calories, xx gm protein, xxx
mg cholesterol, xx gm carbohydrate, xxx mg sodium, x gm fiber, xx gm
fat (x gm sat, x gm mono, x gm poly), x mg iron, xx mg calcium, xx%
of calories from fat.

Brought to you by MMCONV and Sylvia Steiger, SylviaRN (at) compuserve
(dot) com (change characters as needed, this is to prevent bulk
E-mailers from capturing my address), moderator of GT Cookbook and
FringeNet Lowfat & Luscious echoes.  For breadmachine tips and mixes,
visit my homepage: http://ourworld.compuserve.com/homepages/SylviaRN

