Title: Bacon Wrapped Monkfish Served Pheasant Style
Categories: Emeril
Yield: 4 servings
4    (8-ounce) monkfish tails
Essence
12 sl Raw bacon
2    (1-inch) slice of eggplant,
Lengthwise
2    (1-inch) slices of yellow
Squash, lengthwise
2    (1-inch) slices of zucchini,
Lengthwise
Olive oil, for drizzling
1/2 c  Minced onions
2 tb Minced shallots
1 tb Minced garlic
1/4 c  Balsamic vinegar
1/2 c  Pitted black olives, halved
1/2 c  Queen stuffed olives,
Halved
1 c  Peeled, seeded and chopped
Roma tomatoes
2 c  Veal stock
2 tb Basil, chiffonade cut
1/4 c  Grated Parmigiano-Reggiano
Cheese
4    Parsnips, peeled into thin
Strips
2 c  Hot parsnip puree
1 c  Hot mashed potatoes
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees. Preheat the fryer. Season the
monkfish with Essence. Wrap three pieces of the bacon tightly around
each piece of monkfish. In a large oven-proof saute pan, heat 2
tablespoons of olive oil. When the oil is hot, add the wrapped
monkfish and sear the fish for 2 minutes on the first side. Flip the
monkfish over and place the pan in the oven and roast for 6 to 8
minutes. Season the sliced vegetables with olive oil and Essence.
Place the vegetables on the grill and cook for 2 minutes on each
side. Remove the vegetables from the grill and dice. In a large saute
pan, heat 2 tablespoons of olive oil. When the oil is hot, add the
onions and saute for 1 minute. Add the diced vegetables, shallots and
garlic and saute for 2 minutes. Season the mixture with salt and
pepper. Stir in the balsamic and simmer for 1 minute. Stir in the
olives, tomatoes and stock. Bring the liquid to a simmer and cook for
3 to 4 minutes. Reseason if needed. Stir in the butter and remove
from the heat. Place the parsnip strips in the hot oil and fry until
golden brown, about 1 minute, stirring constantly to prevent the
parsnips from sticking. Remove the parsnips from the oil and drain on
a paper-lined plate. Season the parsnips with salt and pepper.
Combine the parsnip puree and mashed potatoes together. Mix well. To
serve, spoon some of the parsnip mash potatoes in the center of each
plate.

Lay each piece of monkfish directly on top of the potatoes. Spoon the
sauce over the fish. Garnish each plate with a pile of fried
parsnips, basil and cheese.

Yield: 4 servings

EMERIL LIVE SHOW #EMIA82 EMERIL'S WORLD

