Title: Barbecued Dry Rub Ribs, Memphis-Style
Categories: Taste
Yield: 4 servings
2 tb Sweet paprika
1 tb Old Bay seasoning
1 1/2 ts Chili powder*
1 1/2 ts Granulated brown sugar
1 1/2 ts Freshly ground black pepper
3/4 ts Garlic powder
3/4 ts Onion powder
Slab of spare ribs, 2 1/2 to
3    Pounds
4 c  Wood chips (hickory,
Mesquite, etc.)
1 tb White vinegar
1/2 ts Salt
Mix together the paprika, Old Bay seasoning, chili powder, sugar,
black pepper, garlic powder and onion powder in a bowl. Rub half the
mixture all over the slab of spare ribs, on every side. Reserve the
other half of the dry rub mix.

Heat the oven to 215 degrees. While the oven is warming, soak the wood
chips in cold water to cover (for about 20 minutes).

Remove the chips from water and spread them evenly in the base of the
smoker. Place the smoker, uncovered, on top of two stove-top burners
set at medium-high heat. Let the wood chips smoke for about 3
minutes. Then place the slab of ribs on the smoker tray, place the
tray over the wood chips, and cover the smoker tightly with its lid.
Turn heat down to medium, and leave the smoker on the burners for 5
minutes. Then transfer smoker to the oven, placing it on the oven
floor.

After the ribs have been in the oven for 1 1/2 hours, remove the
smoker and once again place it over two burners set at medium heat
for 5 minutes. Return smoker to oven floor.

After the ribs have been in the oven for one hour more, remove the
smoker from the oven. Carefully lift up the tray holding the ribs,
and pour off the liquid that has accumulated in the tray. Reserve.
Return tray with ribs to middle portion of oven, and cook for one
hour more.

While ribs are cooking, de-grease the reserved cooking liquid, and
measure 2 tablespoons of it into a bowl. If you don't have 2
tablespoons make up the difference with water. Add the vinegar and
blend well. Reserve. Add the salt to the remaining dry rub mix and
blend well. Reserve.

Remove ribs from oven and brush top side with the cooking
liquid-vinegar mixture. Then sprinkle the salted dry rub mix evenly
over the top side of the ribs. Return to middle portion of oven, and
cook one hour more.

Remove ribs from oven. Let stand 15 minutes. Carve into individual
ribs and serve.

Suggested drink: Qupe Syrah, 1995.

*It's best if you use a high-quality chile powder-preferably one with
a smoky flavor. My favorite

for this recipe is Smoked Jalapeno Flakes made by Chile Today, Hot
Tamale in North Brunswick, New Jersey.

TASTE SHOW #TS1G04

