Title: Beef Salad With Chipotles And Radishes
Categories: Tvfn
Yield: 4 servings
2 lb Sirloin steaks, 1 to 1 1/2
Inches thick
Salt and freshly ground
Black pepper
1 tb Olive oil, for brushing
1 lg Red onion
1/2 c  Canned chipotle chiles,
Stemmed, seeded and finely
Chopped
1/3 c  Extravirgin olive oil
1/4 c  Fresh lime juice
2 1/2 tb White wine vinegar
1/2 ts Salt
1/2 ts Cracked black pepper
2 lg Cloves garlic, minced
3    Anaheim chiles, roasted,
Peeled, stemmed, and seeded
(see Note)
1/2    Hothouse cucumber, peeled
And cut into 1/4inch dice
5    Radishes, cut into 1/4inch
Dice
1 bn Cilantro, leaves only,
Finely chopped
1/2    Head romaine lettuce, pale
Inner leaves only, coarsely
Julienned
2    Ripe plum tomatoes, cut into
Julienne
Heat a well-seasoned castiron frying pan or griddle to high heat.
Season the steaks generously with salt and pepper and brush them with
a little olive oil. Sear the steaks for about 4 minutes on each side,
depending on their thickness, for mediumrare meat. Remove from the
heat and allow to cool almost to room temperature.

Trim the stem and flower ends of the red onion and cut it in half
crosswise. Pressing from the bottoms, pop the onion sections out so
that you have 6 goodsized onioncups. Set aside and cut the remaining
onion into 1/4inch dice.

In a large mixing bowl, whisk together the chopped chipotles, olive
oil, lime juice, vinegar, salt, cracked pepper and garlic until well
blended. Cut the Anaheim chiles into 1/4inch dice and add them to the
bowl, along with the diced red onion, cucumber, radishes, and
cilantro.

Slice the beef across the grain on the diagonal into 3/8inch slices.
Spread a layer of the romaine on each plate and distribute some of
the beef and the tomatoes on top. Spoon the dressing, with all its
chunky ingredients, over the top and serve immediately.

Yield: 6 servings

Note: Fresh chiles and bell peppers can be roasted over a gas flame
or on a tray under the broiler. Keep turning so the skin is evenly
charred, without burning and drying out the flesh. Transfer the
charred peppers to a plastic bag, tie the top closed and let steam
until cool to the touch, about 15 minutes. (If you are rushed, you
can place the bag in a bowl of iced water to speed things up.) The
best way to peel is just to pull off the charred skin by hand and
then dip the peppers briefly in water to remove any blackened bits.
Do not peel the pepper under running water since that will wash away
flavorful juices. Once peeled, cut away stems, seeds and veins.

TOO HOT TAMALES SHOW #TH6222

