Title: Bittersweet Chocolate Glaze
Categories: Tvfn
Yield: 4 servings
6 oz Bittersweet or semisweet
Chocolate, cut into pieces
4 oz Sweet butter, cut in pieces
1 tb Light corn syrup
Place chocolate, butter, and corn syrup in a small bowl. Melt gently
in a water bath over low heat, stirring frequently until almost
completely melted. Remove glaze from water bath and set aside to
finish melting. Stirring once or twice until glaze is perfectly
smooth. Or, melt in a microwave on medium (50 percent) for about 2
minutes. Stir mixture gently with a spatula or a wooden spoon until
completely smooth; do not whisk or beat. Cool glaze, without
stirring, until nearly set and the consistency of easily spreadable
frosting.

To Glaze the Torte: Use a metal icing spatula to spread about
one-fourth of the glaze in a thin layer all over the torte. Smooth
the rough surface of the torte, securing loose crumbs and filling any
cracks. This "crumb coat" will not be glossy or attractive. Its sole
purpose is to provide a smooth, even, undercoat for the final glaze.
Be careful not to get any crumbs in the remaining glaze. Refrigerate
torte for about 10 minutes, or just until the crumb coat is set. Do
not refrigerate for more than 10 minutes--if torte becomes cold
through and through, it will dull the final glaze.

Rewarm the remaining cooled glaze by placing the bowl in a barely
simmering water bath for a few seconds, stirring gently until glaze
is perfectly smooth, 90-92 degrees, and the consistency of heavy
cream. Do not overheat. If glaze is accidently overheated, cool it
down again to the proper temperature before using. If there are any
crumbs or air bubbles in glaze, pour it through a fine strainer just
before using.

Center the crumb coated torte on a platter or turntable. Have ready a
clean, dry metal icing spatula. Pour all of glaze in the center of
the top of the torte. Working quickly, use just 2 or 3 spatula
strokes to spread the glaze over the top of the torte so that it runs
down over all sides. Turn platter or turntable as you spread. Use the
spatula to scoop up excess glaze and touch it to any bare spots on
the sides of the cake. Tiny bare spots can be fixed by dipping a
finger into the excess glaze and touching the bare spots. Jiggle, or
tap the turntable gently to settle uneven glaze or spatula tracks. Do
not respread or resmooth once glaze has started to set or the
finished torte will show spatula marks and dull streaks.

Once the torte is glazed, slide a wide spatula under it and remove it
to a rack to dry at room temperature. Keep the torte as level as
possible while you lift and transfer it so that the wet glaze on the
top won't shift before it sets. Glaze will set in 10-20 minutes.
Press toasted nuts against the sides before the glaze has completely
dried.

CHEF DU JOUR ALICE MEDRICH SHOW #DJ9151

