Title: Blue Corn Tortillas
Categories: Tvfn
Yield: 4 servings
1 1/2 c  Blue corn meal
1 1/2 c  Boiling water
3/4    To 1 cup all purpose flour
Blue corn is one of many different varieties of corn grown by the
Hopi and Pueblo Indians. It ranges in color from gray to blue to
almost black, and is used in breads, dumplings, sauces, and in
drinks. Blue corn tortillas are traditionally made without salt, as
below, for salt is thought to mask the full but subtle taste of the
blue corn.

These tortillas are soft to eat, and not at all tough. Because they
contain a little wheat flour, they are also relatively easy to
handle; you can pat them out by hand, then roll them to an even
thickness if need be. They are cooked quickly in a hot ungreased
skillet, then wrapped in a towel to stay soft and warm until ready to
be eaten.

You will need a medium-sized bowl, a griddle or heavy skillet at
least 8 inches in diameter, and a rolling pin.

Place corn meal in a bowl and pour boiling water over. Stir to mix
well. Let sit for fifteen minutes. Mix in one-half cup of all purpose
flour. Turn this mixture out onto a bread board spread with 1/4 cup
of flour. Knead for 2 to 3 minutes, incorporating the 1/4 cup of
flour into the dough (and if necessary, use a little more). The dough
will be soft but not at all strong. Return the dough to the bowl and
cover. Let rest for 30 minutes.

Divide the dough into eight pieces. Between well-floured palms, make
flat round patties out of each of the eight and set aside. Heat your
griddle over medium high heat, making sure that it is hot before you
cook the first tortilla. On a well-floured surface (as the dough is
quite sticky), carefully roll out a tortilla until it is
approximately 7 to 8 inches in diameter. (We find it easiest to first
pat out the dough with our fingers or between our palms, and then to
roll out the tortilla at the very last just to make it uniform in
thickness). Cook the tortilla as you would a wheat tortilla,
approximately one minute on each side. The tortillas will be flecked
with brown on both sides. When cooked, remove and wrap in a kitchen
towel. Stack one on top of another.

Yield: Makes eight blue corn tortillas approximately 8 inches in
diameter.

BAKERS' DOZEN ALFORD AND DUGUID SHOW #BD1A30

