Title: Boeuf A La Bourguignon With Heartshaped Croutons
Categories: Taste
Yield: 4 servings
3 c  Dry red wine
2 c  Beef stock or canned broth
1/4 c  Marc de Bourgogne or
Good-quality brandy
1 lg Onion, chopped
2 sm Carrots, chopped
4    Garlic cloves, sliced
1 ts Dried thyme
1 ts Dried rosemary
10    Peppercorns
12    Parsley stems
4    Whole cloves
4    Allspice berries
1    Bay leaf
3 lb Beef chuck, cut into 2 inch
Pieces
Salt and pepper
1/4 lb Slab bacon (rind removed and
Reserved) sliced lengthwise
1/4    Inch
Thick, crosswise into pieces
1/2    Inch wide
2 tb Butter
1 tb Oil
1 tb Tomato paste
1 lb Pearl onions
4 tb Butter
pn Sugar
1 lb Button mushrooms
Beurre Manie (equal parts
Flour and softened butter,
Mixed together, about
1 tb Each)
Heartshaped croutons:
6 sl Firm white bread, crusts
Removed, cut into heart
Shapes
3 tb Unsalted butter, melted
1/4 c  Minced fresh parsley
In a large bowl combine marinade ingredients and beef. Chill, covered,
overnight. Drain beef, reserving marinade and vegetables separately;
pat beef dry and season with salt and pepper.

Preheat oven to 275/F. Cover bacon and rind with cold water, bring to
a boil and simmer 3 minutes. Drain. In a large casserole set over
moderate heat cook bacon lardons in butter and oil, stirring often,
until golden. With a slotted spoon transfer lardons to paper towels
to drain.

In casserole over moderately high heat brown beef in bacon fat, in
batches. Pour off all but 1 tablespoon of fat from casserole. Add
reserved vegetable mixture and cook, stirring, for 5 minutes. Add
reserved marinade liquid, tomato paste, reserved bacon rind and salt
and pepper, bring liquid to a boil and cook in oven, covered, 3
hours. Skim fat from stew and drain meat and vegetables, reserving
cooking liquid. Return liquid and meat to casserole.

Meanwhile make vegetable garnish: In a skillet cover onions with
water, add 1 tablespoon of butter, sugar and salt and pepper to
taste. Simmer onions until almost tender. Raise heat to high and
reduce cooking liquid to 2 tablespoons. Continue to cook onions,
shaking pan over heat, until golden brown and glazed. In a skillet
set over moderately high heat, melt remaining butter and add
mushrooms and salt and pepper to taste. Cook mushrooms, tossing
often, for 7 minutes, or until firm. Add the onions and mushrooms to
the casserole. Bring liquid in casserole to a simmer and add enough
Beurre Manie, bit by bit, stirring constantly, to lightly thicken
sauce.

Make croutons: Brush both sides of bread with melted butter, arrange
on a baking sheet and bake in a 400 F. oven until golden brown. Dip
edges of bread in Bourguignon sauce and then in parsley.

To serve: spoon meat and vegetables into shallow serving dishes and
garnish with croutons.

Yield: 6 servings

TASTE SHOW #TS4664

Marinade:

