Title: Boston Trifle
Categories: Tvfn
Yield: 4 servings
1 c  Sifted cake flour
7 tb Granulated sugar
7 tb Granulated sugar, plus 1
TB granulated sugar
7 lg Eggs, room temperature
1 ts Vanilla
1 ts Cream of tartar
Position rack in lower third of oven and preheat to 300 degrees. Pour
the flour and 7 tablespoons of sugar in that order into a triple
sifter or sieve.  Sift onto a sheet of waxed paper, and set aside.
(Sifting the two together disperses and separates the particles of
flour so that when dry ingredients are added later to the batter,
folding in the flour is easier and more efficient, requiring less
folding to incorporate. Measure the additional 7 tablespoons and 1
tablespoon of granulated sugar; set aside. Separate the eggs, placing
the whites in the bowl of a heavyduty mixer and yolks in a 1 1/2
quart bowl.  (A deep bowl this size makes it more efficient for
whipping the yolks thoroughly since it minimizes the surface area.)
With an electric hand mixer, whip the yolks on high speed (#10) for 3
to 5 minutes.  Add the vanilla, and continue whipping for 15 seconds
to incorporate; the mixture should appear thicker, pale yellow, and
increased in volume.  Test the consistency by lifting some of the
mixture with the beaters.  If it flows back into the bowl in ribbons
that slowly dissolve on the surface, proceed to whipping the whites.
But if the ribbons sink into the surface immediately, continue
whipping until the yolks have the desired consistency. Attach the
bowl of whites to the mixer, and with the whisk attachment, whip on
mediumlow speed (#3) for 30 to 45 seconds to break them up.  When
small bubbles appear and the surface is frothy, stop the machine, and
sprinkle the cream of tartar and the 1 tablespoon granulated sugar in
the center.  Resume whipping, increasing speed to medium (#5), for 4
to 5 minutes, or until the whites appear glossy and stiff but not dry
or granular. Detach the whisk and bowl, tapping the whisk against the
side of the bowl with enough force to free the excess.  Pour the
yolks onto the whites (notice they float on the surface).  Using just
a few strokes, fold the two together with a rubber spatula.  Don't be
concerned if some of the yolks remain visible.  Sprinkle half of 7
tablespoons sugar over the surface, and fold to incorporate. Sprinkle
with the remaining sugar, folding again to incorporate. With the aid
of a metal spatula, scoop a third of the flour, and sprinkle it over
the egg mixture; with a rubber spatula, fold to incorporate. Repeat
two more times, folding just until incorporated after each addition.
Gently pour batter into an ungreased 9-inch springform pan with the
aid of a rubber spatula and smooth the surface level.  Bake for 55 to
60 minutes, or until the top is golden. (The batter hardly rises
during the first 20 to 30 minutes of baking. The low oven temperature
allows the batter to absorb heat slowly, so rising is gradual.
Toward the end of baking the cake may mound high above the pan's rim.
That's fine.  As it cools, this dome will contract a bit.) When
finished baking, the cake should feel spongy, springing back slightly
upon being lightly touched.  A toothpick, inserted in the center,
comes out free of cake.  The toothpick is the last test for this cake
before you judge if it is finished baking and remove it from the
oven. If in doubt, baking 5 to 7 more minutes will not harm the cake.
Remove spongecake from the oven, and immediately turn it upside down,
positioning the edges of the pan on the inverted glasses.  This
position, defying gravity, allows the cake to maintain its spongy
structure without deflating while cooling. Cool the cake for 2 hours;
then turn the pan right side up, and place it on the counter.  Though
the cake is cool to the touch, let it sit for at least 1 more hour to
cool the inside completely.  (The cake's structure is less fragile
when cool, making removal easier.) To release the spongecake and
maintain its shape perfectly, remove it from the pan as follows:
Carefully loosen the cake crust that is stuck to the top rim of the
pan; insert a thin metal spatula down 1/8 inch, and loosen and free
the crust all around the cake.  Then tilt and rotate pan, tapping it
gently on the counter to free the sponge from the metal sides. Tap
more if it is not completely released.  Finally, release the spring
mechanism, and slowly remove the rim.  (You'll notice the cake seemed
to have had a slipcover because a thin, crusty layer of cake remains
on the springform rim; it's delicious, too.)  Now tilt the cake on
its side, and gently tap the metal bottom on the counter.  Rotate the
cake as you tap until the removable bottom appears free.  Additional
tapping may be necessary before it comes off completely. Patience
will ensure a perfectly shaped cake.

Yield: one 9inch round cake

BAKERS' DOZEN FLO BRAKER SHOW #BD1A13

