Title: Butterscotch Cream Pie
Categories: Tvfn
Yield: 4 servings
Nut Crumb Crust-
1/2 c  Almonds or pecans
1 c  All-purpose bleached flour
1/3 c  Sugar
1/4 ts Ground cinnamon
1/8 ts Salt
6 tb (3/4 stick) unsalted butter,
Melted
Filling:
2 1/2 c  Milk
2/3 c  Light brown sugar
pn Salt
1/3 c  Cornstarch
3 lg Eggs
4 tb Unsalted butter, softened
2 ts Vanilla extract
Topping:
1 c  Heavy cream
2 tb Sugar
1 ts Vanilla extract
For the crumb crust: Butter a 9-inch pyrex pie pan. Set a rack at the
middle level of the oven and preheat to 350 degrees.

Place nuts in bowl of food processor fitted with metal blade. Pulse
10 or 12 times at 1-second intervals to finely grind without reducing
to a paste. Remove cover and scrape inside of work bowl with a
spatula.

Add remaining ingredients except butter and pulse once or twice to
combine.

Add butter and pulse 3 or 4 times, until mixture is evenly moistened
and looks crumbly. Remove blade and turn mixture out into prepared
pan.

Using your fingertips, distribute the crumb mixture evenly over the
bottom and sides of the pan, gently pressing into place. Make sure
that the crumb coating is even because thin spots will burn during
baking.

Use the back of a spoon to smooth the surface of the crust and to
make the rim of the crust straight and even.

Bake the crust for about 20 minutes, or until the surface of the
crust is a deep golden brown. Watch carefully, because the high sugar
content makes them burn easily. Cool on rack.

To make the filling: Combine 2 cups milk, sugar and salt in a
nonreactive saucepan; whisk once to mix and bring to a boil over low
heat. Place remaining 1/2 cup milk in a mixing bowl and whisk in
cornstarch, then eggs. Return milk and sugar mixture to a boil over
low heat then whisk about a third of it into the egg mixture. Return
milk and sugar mixture to a boil once more and whisk in the egg
mixture, whisking constantly until the filling thickens and comes to
a boil. Allow to boil, whisking constantly, for about 30 seconds.
Remove from heat, whisk in butter and vanilla; pour into a
nonreactive bowl. Press plastic wrap against the surface of the
filling and chill until it is approximately 75 degrees. Spread the
cooled filling evenly in the cooled crust.

To finish the pie, whip the cream with the sugar and vanilla until it
holds a firm peak. Use a hand mixer on medium speed or a heavy-duty
mixer fitted with the whisk. Spread the cream over the filling,
making sure it touches the edges of the crust all around.

Yield: One 9-inch pie

BAKERS' DOZEN NICK MALGIERI SHOW #BD1A20

