Title: Caldo Gallejo
Categories: Tvfn
Yield: 4 servings
1    12 to 14-ounce package of
Dried white beans, rinsed,
Picked over and
Soaked overnight
8 oz Length of Chorizo or other
Spicy sausage
3 tb Pure olive oil
2 tb Butter
6    Cloves garlic, peeled and
Thinly sliced
2    Scotch bonnet, chilies,
Stemmed, seeded and minced
2    Poblano chilies, stemmed,
Seeded and diced medium
1 c  Red onion, minced
3 qt Chicken stock or water
1/2 lb Beef chuck steak, left in
One piece, rubbed with salt
And pepper
1    Smoked pork hock or ham
Bone
2    Bay leaves, broken
Salt and pepper, to taste
1    Red potato, scrubbed and
Diced into large bite sized
Pieces
1    Turnip, peeled and diced
Into large bite sized
Pieces
2 c  (packed) collard greens,
Stems cut out, washed and
Cut in shreds
More salt and pepper to
Taste
Heat a large, heavy soup pot on medium heat and add the olive oil.
Once it is warm lay the chorizo sausage in the pan and turn it as
necessary to brown. Pierce the sausage casing and cook until done.
Allow to cool a few minutes and then place it in the refrigerator to
firm up.

Now working in the same soup pot add the butter. Heat on medium heat
and allow the butter to melt. Now add the garlic, chilies and red
onion. Allow to cook 7 to 8 minutes, stirring occasionally.

Drain the soaking beans and add them to the pan. Stir well. Add the
stock, the hock (or bone) and bay leaves. Turn up the heat and bring
it to just under a boil, skimming as necessary. Lower the heat to low
and add the beef chuck. Do not cover. Stir occasionally, taking care
to not let the beans stick to the bottom.

When the beans are almost tender, season them with salt and pepper.
Now add the potato, turnip and collards. Cook until the potato is
just tender, (about 45 minutes). Cut the chorizo into 1/2-inch rounds
and add it to the soup. Remove the beef and allow it to cool on a
plate. Turn off the soup. Shred the beef apart and add it back to the
soup. Season to taste and serve.

Yield: 8 servings (12-14 cups)

CHEF DU JOUR NORMAN VAN AKEN SHOW #DJ9361

