Title: Canja (Chicken Soup, Brazilian-Style)
Categories: Tvfn
Yield: 4 servings
1 1/2 tb Olive oil
2 md Shallots, finely chopped
1 c  Corn kernels
2    Doves garlic, minced
1/2 bn Fresh mint, leaves only,
Finely chopped
3 tb White wine vinegar
3 tb Extra-virgin olive oil
1/2 ts Salt
1/4 ts Freshly ground black pepper
Half a 3 1/2 pound chicken
1 md Onion, coarsely chopped
5    Plum tomatoes, peeled,
Seeded, and coarsely
Chopped
1    Stalk celery, including
Leaves, coarsely chopped
1/2 bn Cilantro, leaves only,
Finely chopped
10 c  Water
3 lg Carrots, cut into 1/4-inch
Dice
1/2 c  Long grain white rice
1 ts Salt
1/2 ts Freshly ground black pepper
In a small heavy skillet, heat the olive oil over medium heat. Add the
shallots and cook, stirring frequently, for 2 to 3 minutes, or until
softened and slightly golden. Add the corn and cook for 2 minutes,
then add the garlic and cook for 1 minute more, until it has released
its aroma. Remove from the heat and let cool. In a small glass bowl,
stir the corn mixture together with all the remaining ingredients for
the Mint-Corn salsa. Set aside, covered, in the refrigerator for 1
hour.

In a large stockpot, combine the chicken, onion, tomatoes, celery, and
cilantro. Add 8 cups of the water, cover, and bring to a boil over
medium-high heat. As soon as the liquid comes to a boil, reduce the
heat to low and simmer partially covered for 1 hour, skimming the fat
and scum from the top several times. Remove the chicken, strip the
meat from the bones, and discard the bones. Set the meat aside
(according to taste, either discard or cut the skin into strips and
reserve). Strain the liquid through a sieve back into a clean pan and
discard the solids. Add the reserved chicken meat (and skin, if
desired), carrots, rice, salt, pepper, and remaining 2 cups water to
the pot and bring to a boil over medium heat. Reduce the heat to low
and simmer the soup partially covered, for 30 minutes more. Taste for
seasoning and serve in warm bowls, garnished with a mound of the
salsa.

Yield: 6 servings

TOO HOT TAMALES SHOW #TH6199

Mint-Corn Salsa:

