Title: Caruru
Categories: Tvfn
Yield: 4 servings
2 tb Olive oil
2 lb Small okra pods, topped,
Tailed, and cut into small
Pieces
Salt and freshly ground
Black pepper
3 tb Ground dried shrimp (see
Note 2)
1 lb Jumbo shrimp, peeled and
Deveined
1/3 c  Roasted peanuts
2 tb Dende oil (see Note 1)
1 md Onion, very finely chopped
2    Cloves garlic, minced
1 ts Red chile flakes
3/4 c  Water
1 bn Cilantro, leaves only,
Finely chopped
ds Tabasco
Cooked white rice, for
Serving
12    Cooked jumbo shrimp, for
Garnish
1    Red bell pepper, stemmed,
Seeded, and cut into fine
Julienne for garnish
Whole sprigs of cilantro,
For garnish
Wedges of lemon, for
Serving
In a medium heavy skillet, heat the olive oil over high heat. Add the
okra and toss constantly until seared and golden, about 2 minutes.
Remove from the heat, season to taste with salt and pepper and set
aside.

In the bowl of a food processor, combine the ground dried shrimp with
the fresh shrimp and peanuts. Pulse, scraping down the sides of the
bowl as necessary, until the mixture forms a chunky paste.

In a large, heavy skillet heat the dende oil over medium heat. Add the
onion, garlic and chile flakes and cook, stirring frequently, for 2
to 3 minutes, until golden. Add the shrimp paste, 1/2 teaspoon salt,
and 1/4 teaspoon pepper and stir to mix. Pour in the water and bring
to a simmer. Reduce the heat to low and simmer the caruru gently for
30 minutes, stirring occasionally. The mixture will be quite thick.
Stir in the reserved okra, cilantro and Tabasco and cook for 2
minutes more, until the okra is heated through. Serve over white
rice, garnished with the cooked jumbo shrimp, red pepper julienne,
cilantro sprigs and lemon wedges.

Yield: 6 servings

Note 1: Dende oil is Brazilian palm oil, available in Latin American
markets. Be sure to get the Brazilian rather than the West African
product, which is much heavier. Or use half the amount of the West
African palm oil and substitute vegetable oil for the other half.

Note 2: The ground dried shrimp that are used in Brazilian dishes can
occasionally be found in

WestAfrican markets, but the variety that is widely available in
Chinese markets will do nicely. It is easiest to grind them in a
coffee grinder, if you have one that is reserved for grinding spices.
Otherwise, use a food processor.

TOO HOT TAMALES SHOW #TH6201

