Title: Casonei
Categories: Molto
Yield: 4 servings
4    Extra large eggs
3 1/2 c  Unbleached all purpose flour
Plus 1/2 cup for dusting
Your work
Surface
1/2 ts Olive oil
Filling:
1 lb Baked potatoes, peeled and
Mashed
1 c  Fresh bread crumbs
1 lb Leftover meat or sausage,
Chopped or crumbled
1/2 c  Grated Parmigiano
1/2    To 1 cup milk
Salt and pepper
pn Cinnamon
Sauce:
6 tb Butter
6 tb Veal stock
To make pasta: Make a mound of the flour in the center of a large
wooden cutting board. Make a well in the middle of the flour and add
the eggs and oil. Using a fork, beat together the eggs and the oil
and begin to incorporate the flour starting with the inner rim of the
well.

As you expand the well, keep pushing the flour up to retain the well
shape. Do not worry that this intial phase looks messy. The dough
will come together when half of the flour is incorporated.

Start kneading the dough with both hands, using the palm of your
hands. Once you have a cohesive mass, remove the dough from the board
and scape up any leftover crusty bits. Lightly flour the board and
continue kneading for 3 more minutes. The dough should be elastic and
a little sticky. Continue to knead for another 3 minutes remembering
to dust your board when necessary. Wrap the dough in plastic and
allow to rest for 30 minutes at room temperature. Roll to thinnest
setting on pasta machine.

Note: Do not skip the kneading or resting portion of this recipe.
They are essential for a light pasta.

For the filling: In a mixing bowl, place the potatoes, bread crumbs,
meat and cheese and mix with a fork. Add milk, little by little,
until mass comes together and season with salt, pepper and a pinch of
cinnamon.

Bring 6 quarts of water to a boil and add 2 tablespoons salt.

Roll out the pasta and cut sheet horizontally. Cut each strip into
4-inch strips to yield 4-inch long by 3-inch wide rectangles. Place 1
tablespoon stuffing in center of each piece and fold in half
lenghtwise. Press edges to seal and pull slightly forward on edges to
create crescent shape.

Place in boiling water and cook until "al dente".

Meanwhile, melt the butter and veal stock. Toss to coat with grated
cheese and serve.

Yield: 4 servings

MOLTO MARIO SHOW #MB5740

Pasta:

