Title: Cheese Straws (Taste)
Categories: Taste
Yield: 4 servings
1 3/4 c  Flour
1/2 c  Cake flour
1 1/2 ts Salt
1/4    To 1/2 teaspoon cayenne
Pepper, depending on how hot
You want straws
1/2 lb Unsalted butter, cold, cut
In small pieces
1 c  Packed, grated white aged
Cheddar cheese
1/2 c  Grated, good quality
Parmesan cheese
1/2 c  Packed, grated, yellow
Cheddar cheese
6    To 8 tablespoons ice water
Mix flours, salt, and cayenne pepper together. With the tips of your
fingers, work cold butter quickly into the flour mixture until the
butter is the size of peas. Add all cheeses and toss together.
Sprinkle the water in by the tablespoon while tossing the flour
cheese mixture with your other hand. As soon as the dough begins to
form a mixture that sticks together, gently press it out on a lightly
floured board in a rectangle about 10 to 12 inches long by 5 to 6
inches wide. Roll quickly with a rolling pin, so the dough is a solid
piece. It will look rough at this point, but will smooth out later.

Fold 1/3 of the dough towards you from the top and 1/3 of the dough
away from you towards the top. The dough will break along the folds;
don't worry about it. Turn the dough block sideways so it looks like
a book. Roll the dough a second time and fold again. Rest the dough
in the refrigerator for 30 minutes. Roll and fold the dough twice
more. Rest it in the refrigerator for 1 hour. At this point, the
dough may be frozen in one or two pieces or rolled to make cheese
straws.

To roll dough to make cheese straws, cut dough in half, keeping one
half chilled. On a lightly floured board, roll dough about 1/8-inch
thick in a rectangle about 8 to 9 inches wide. Trim the edges (but
bake the trimmings for a snack). With a sharp knife, cut the straws
1/2-inch wide and lay them on a well greased baking sheet. Bake at
350 degrees for about 10 minutes until a light brown. They will crisp
as they cool. The straws are fragile, so handle them carefully and
eat them soon.

Drink: Billecart-Salmon Brut

(Recipe Courtesy of Morrison-Clark Historic Inn and Restaurant Susan
McCreight Lindeborg, Chef)

TASTE SHOW #TS1G18 CHEESE STRAWS

