Title: Chicken And Corn Stew With Corn Wafers
Categories: Live
Yield: 4 servings
For the corn wafers:
1/2    Stick butter, softened
2 ts Sugar
1 lg Egg white
1/2 ts Salt
3 tb Yellow cornmeal
1 tb Flour
2 tb Freshly grated Parmesan
1 tb Vegetable oil
2    Whole boneless chicken
Breasts (about 2 pounds),
Cut into 2-inch pieces
1 tb Butter
3 tb Flour
1 sm Onion, chopped fine
1 sm Green bell pepper, chopped
Fine
1    Rib of celery, chopped fine
1 1/4 c  Chicken broth
4    Fresh or canned plum
Tomatoes, chopped
1 ts Chili powder
1 c  Fresh corn kernels including
Pulp scraped from cobs
1/2 c  Thinly sliced scallion
Greens
1/4 c  Loosely packed fresh basil
Leaves, chopped
Make the corn wafers:

In a bowl with an electric mixer cream the butter, add sugar, and
beat the mixture until it is light and fluffy. Add the egg white and
salt and beat the mixture at low speed for 5 seconds, or until it is
just combined. The mixture will be lumpy. Add the cornmeal, flour and
Parmesan and stir the mixture until it is just combined. Transfer the
mixture to a small bowl and chill it, covered, for at least 4 hours
or overnight. Arrange rounded teaspoons of the mixture 3 inches apart
on buttered baking sheets and with a fork dipped in cold water
flatten them carefully to form 2-inch rounds. Bake the wafers in
batches in the middle of a preheated 425 degree oven for 5 to 6
minutes, or until the edges are golden brown, with a spatula transfer
the wafers immediately to racks, and let them cool.

In a 9-inch cast iron skillet heat the oil over moderately high heat
until it is hot but not smoking and in it brown the chicken, patted
dry and seasoned with salt and pepper, in batches, transferring it as
it is browned to a bowl. To the fat remaining in the skillet add the
butter and flour and cook the roux over moderately low heat, stirring
constantly, until it is the color of peanut butter. Stir in the
onion, bell pepper, and celery and cook the mixture, stirring
occasionally, until the vegetables are softened. Add the broth,
tomatoes, chili powder, and chicken with any juices that have
accumulated in the bowl, simmer the stew, covered, for 6 to 8
minutes, or until the chicken is cooked through, and stir in the
corn. The stew may be prepared up to this point 1 day in advance and
kept covered and chilled. Before serving, stir in the scallion greens
and basil, season with salt and pepper, and serve it in bowls topped
with the corn wafers.

Yield: 4 to 6 servings

COOKING LIVE SHOW #CL9046

All recipes courtesy of Gourmet Magazine

