Title: Chicken In Brachetto
Categories: Tvfn
Yield: 4 servings
1    4-pound chicken, cut into 10
Pieces
1    Bottle Brachetto wine
1 c  Sliced white onion
1 c  Sliced celery, washed
1 c  Peeled and sliced carrots
6    Cloves garlic, thinly
Sliced
1    Sprig each rosemary, thyme,
Sage, basil, parsley
1    Bay leaf
sm Pinch whole black
Peppercorns
1 ts Kosher salt
Freshly ground black pepper
3 tb Olive oil
2 c  Fresh peeled, seeded and
Chopped tomatoes
1 1/2 tb Butter
1 tb Chopped parsley
At least one day before serving the dish, place the chicken in a large
non-reactive casserole and add all the ingredients up to and
including the peppercorns.  Stir the chicken around so that it will
be well covered by the wine.  Cover the casserole and marinate the
chicken overnight in the refrigerator. Place a colander over a
saucepan and drain the chicken, reserving the wine.  Separate the
chicken pieces from the vegetables, holding the vegetables on reserve
for the moment. Arrange the chicken on a cookie sheet covered with
paper towels and season the pieces well with the salt and black
pepper.  Allow the chicken to sit with the seasoning for at least
15-20 minutes. Preheat the oven to 375 degrees. Heat the olive oil in
a large heavy-bottomed lidded saucepan or Dutch oven over medium-high
heat. Begin sauteing the chicken, skin side down, without crowding
the pan. As the skin slowly renders and browns, turn each piece over
to quickly sear the other side.  Transfer the browned pieces of
chicken to a platter and continue until all the chicken is done.
Turn the heat to high and add the reserved vegetables to the pan.
Cook until the vegetables are wilted and beginning to brown, then add
the tomatoes and cook a few more minutes. Pour on the reserved red
wine and scrape up any brown bits left clinging to the bottom of the
pan. Return the chicken to the pan and bring the wine to a boil.
Cover the pan tightly and place in the oven for 40 minutes. Remove
the casserole from the oven and turn the oven off.  Allow the chicken
to cool a few minutes.  Pour the chicken and sauce into a colander
placed over a saucepan.  Transfer the chicken to a serving platter,
and remove the herb stems and bay leaf.  Place the saucepan
containing the red wine sauce on a medium flame and begin removing
the fat from the surface. Allow the sauce to reduce for 10-15 minutes
at a moderate simmer. Cover with aluminum foil and place in the oven
to keep warm. Adjust the seasoning of the sauce, swirl in the butter,
and spoon the sauce over the chicken. Sprinkle with the chopped
parsley and serve immediately. The chicken can be prepared up to
several days ahead and kept in the sauce, covered and refrigerated
until ready to reheat.

NOTE:  Brachetto is a delicious, slightly sweet and sparkling red
wine from the Piedmont area of Italy.  If unavailable, try using a
good quality Lambrusco, a similar wine from the Emilia-Romagna area,
or another light red Italian wine like Valpolicella or Bardolino.

Yield: 4 servings

CHEF DU JOUR SHOW #DJ9268 MICHAEL ROMANO

