Title: Chicken And Vegetable Terrine
Categories: Tvfn
Yield: 4 servings
1/2 lb Carrots, peeled
3/4 lb Haricots verts, parboiled
For 5 minutes or until
Tender
1 1/4 lb Ground chicken
1/2 c  Vegetable oil
1/4 c  Finely chopped shallots and
1    Clove garlic cooked until
Tender in 2
TB butter
1 lg Clove garlic, minced
1/4 c  Champagne or white wine
Vinegar
1    Egg lightly beaten
1/4 c  Soft white bread crumbs
1/2 c  Pitted black Nicoise olives
Salt and freshly ground
Black pepper
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees and lightly grease an 8 x 4 inch
glass loaf pan. Cut the carrots into strips the length of the carrots
but only 1/4 wide (should be evenly cut 1/4inch square). Parboil for
6 to 7 minutes or until cooked through but still with some texture to
them. Puree ground chicken a little bit at a time in a food processor
with the oil and vinegar and 1 1/2 teaspoons salt and 1/4 teaspoon
pepper. Add cooked shallots, garlic, bread crumbs and egg and puree
until very smooth.

Divide chicken puree into 3 bowls. In one add the carrots; in the
other the green beans and leave the puree plain in the third. Using
your hands mix the vegetables into the chicken mixture in each bowl
making sure they are completely coated. Set a tiny bit of plain
chicken puree in bottom of loaf pan, spreading it with a rubber
spatula to cover entire bottom surface. Then cover with a layer of
carrot, keeping carrots in as straight a line as possible. Next layer
green bean mixture over carrots. With a spatula layer some plain
chicken binder on top of green beans just enough to barely coat them.
Then set a row of black olives down the center. Dot olives with a
paper thin layer of plain chicken binder. Then repeat green bean
layer, then top with the carrot layer and finally a layer of chicken
binder which should entirely cover vegetables. Cover the top with
buttered brown paper pressing paper directly on top of terrine. Cover
top with foil.

Tap the loaf pan on the counter a few times to eliminate air bubbles.
Place terrine in a larger pan filled with enough boiling water to
reach 3/4 of the way up the sides of the loaf pan. Set in oven and
bake for 1 hour.

Remove the pan from the oven. Let terrine rest for another hour or
until it is cooler. Leave the foil cover on. Drain off excess water.
Run a sharp knife between the terrine and the pan to loosen then
carefully turn it upside down on a board. Terrine should come out
easily. Pat dry with paper towels. Wrap in plastic wrap, then in foil
and let it cool in fridge for 3 hours or overnight.

Yield: 6 to 8 servings

(Adapted from Cooking the Nouvelle Cuisine in America. Michele
Urvater and April 1, 1996 David Liederman; Workman Publishing., l979)

COOKING MONDAY TO FRIDAY SHOW # MF6661

