Title: Chocolate Truffles
Categories: Toohot
Yield: 4 servings
1 c  Heavy cream
1 lb Bittersweet chocolate,
Chopped finely
2 tb Unsalted butter
Optional flavorings:
2 tb Liqueur, 2 tablespoons
Instant expresso, 1/2
ts Cinnamon
Or other spice, etc.
1 lb Liquid tempered chocolate
For dipping
2 c  Cocoa powder
Place heavy cream in a large pot and bring slowly to a boil over
medium heat.  Turn off the heat and stir in the chopped chocolate.
Let stand for 2 minutes then stir well until smooth.  Stir in the
butter. Pour into the bowl of an electric mixer, and let cool until
set. Fit mixer with a paddle and beat the chocolate mixture on medium
speed until aerated and fluffy, about 2 minutes.  Beat in the liqueur
and/or other flavorings. Load ganache into a pastry bag fitted with a
halfinch plain tube. Line several baking sheet with parchment or
waxed paper. Pipe the truffle mixture out to form 1/2-inch balls.
Place pans in the refrigerator to chill thoroughly. To coat the
truffles, set up your counter like this:  tray of chilled centers on
your left, bowl of melted tempered chocolate in the middle, large pan
filled with cocoa powder on your right. (Reverse this if you=re
lefthanded) Pick up a truffle with your left hand. Touch the palm of
your right hand lightly onto surface of tempered chocolate. Drop the
truffle into your chocolaty right hand and roll it around to coat.
Move your right hand over the pan of cocoa powder, turn your hand
over, and drop the coated truffle into the cocoa. Repeat the process
to coat about 5 truffles, then pick up a fork with your clean left
hand and use it to roll the truffles round a bit in the cacao.  (A
second person can help do this continuously.) Repeat until the cocoa
pan is filled with a lot of truffles. Then wash and dry your hands
(or enlist your helper to do this); place the truffles in a strainer
and shake it over the pan of cocoa powder to dislodge any excess
cocoa.  Place finished truffles on another paperlined pan to set
completely.  Truffles do not need to be refrigerated.

Repeat coating processes with remaining centers.

Yield: about 50

TOO HOT TAMALES SHOW #TH6349

