Title: Chocolate-Frosted Devil's Food Cake With Pecan And Coconu
Categories: Tvfn
Yield: 4 servings
4 oz Unsweetened chocolate,
Chopped
1/2 c  Water
3 c  Cake flour (not
Self-rising)
1 ts Baking soda
1 ts Salt 2 sticks (1 cup)
Unsalted butter, softened
1 c  Firmly packed light brown
Sugar
1 c  Granulated sugar
3 lg Eggs
1 1/2 ts Vanilla
1 c  Buttermilk
For the filling:
1 c  Heavy cream
1 c  Granulated sugar
1    Stick (1/2 cup) unsalted
Butter
3 lg Egg yolks, beaten lightly
1 ts Vanilla
1 c  Pecans, chopped fine and
Toasted lightly
1 1/3 c  Sweetened flaked coconut,
Toasted lightly
For the frosting:
5 tb Unsalted butter, softened
3 tb Heavy cream
1 ts Vanilla
2 oz Unsweetened chocolate,
Melted and cooled
2 c  Confectioners' sugar
Make the cake layers: Line the bottoms of 3 buttered 9 by 1 1/2-inch
round cake pans with rounds of waxed paper, butter the paper, and
dust the pans with flour, knocking out the excess. In a small metal
bowl set over a saucepan of barely simmering water melt the chocolate
with the water, stirring occasionally, remove the bowl from the heat,
and let the mixture cool. Into a bowl sift together the flour, the
baking soda, and the salt. In the large bowl of an electric mixer
cream together the butter and the sugars until the mixture is smooth.
Add the buttermilk alternately in batches, beginning and ending with
the flour mixture, and beat the batter until it is smooth. Mix in the
melted chocolate. Divide the batter among the prepared pans,
smoothing the tops, rap each pan twice on a hard surface to expel any
air bubbles, and bake the layers in the middle of a preheated 350
degree oven for 20 to 30 minutes, or until a tester comes out clean.
Let the layers cool in the pans on racks for 10 minutes, run a knife
around the edge of each pan, and invert the layers onto the racks.
Remove the wax paper and let the layers cool completely. The cake
layers may be made 2 days in advance and kept, wrapped in plastic
wrap, at room temperature.

Make the filling: In a saucepan combine the cream, the granulated
sugar, and the butter and cook the mixture over moderately low heat,
stirring, until the sugar is dissolved. Whisk 1/2 cup of the cream
mixture into the yolks, whisk the yolk mixture into the remaining
cream mixture, and cook the mixture over moderately low heat,
whisking, for 10 minutes, or until it is thickened (do not boil).
Stir in the vanilla, the pecans, and the coconut and let it cool,
stirring occasionally.

Make the frosting: In a bowl beat together the butter, the cream, the
vanilla, the chocolate, and the confectioners sugar until the
frosting is fluffy.

Assemble the cake: On a cake stand arrange 1 cake layer, spread the
layer with 3/4 cup of the filling, and top the filling with a second
layer. Spread the second layer with 3/4 cup of the remaining filling
and pour the icing on top of the cake, letting it drip down the side
of the cake.

The cake may be assembled 1 day in advance and kept covered loosely
and chilled. Let the cake return to room temperature before serving.

ENTERTAINING AT HOME WITH DEAN FEARING SHOW #HE1A25

For the cake layers:

