Title: Chocolate Trinity Parfaits
Categories: Baker
Yield: 4 servings
12 oz Semisweet chocolate (8
oz Broken into 1/2-ounce pieces
And 4
oz Finely grated)
6 1/2 c  Heavy cream
3/4 c  Granulated sugar
2 tb Unsweetened cocoa
1 ts Pure vanilla extract
To prepare the dark chocolate cream, heat 1-inch of water in the
bottom half of a double boiler over medium heat. Place the 8 ounces
semisweet chocolate broken into pieces in the top half of the double
boiler. Tightly cover the top with film wrap and allow to heat for 8
to 10 minutes. Remove from the heat and stir until smooth. Transfer
the melted chocolate to a stainless steel bowl and set aside until
needed. Place 2 1/2 cups heavy cream and 2 tablespoons sugar in the
well-chilled bowl of an electric mixer fitted with a well-chilled
balloon whip. Whisk on high until stiff peaks form, about 1 1/2
minutes. Remove the bowl from the mixer. Use a hand whisk to combine
1/4 of the whipped cream into the melted chocolate until smooth and
completely incorporated. Add the combined whipped cream and chocolate
to the remaining whipped cream and use a rubber spatula to fold
together.

Transfer the dark chocolate cream to a stainless steel bowl. Tightly
cover the top with film wrap and refrigerate until needed. To prepare
the cocoa cream, place 2 cups heavy cream, 1/2 cup sugar, the cocoa
and 1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract in the well-chilled bowl of an
electric mixer fitted with a well-chilled balloon whip. Mix on medium
until stiff peaks form, about 4 to 5 minutes. Transfer the cocoa
cream to a stainless steel bowl. Tightly cover the top with film wrap
and refrigerate until needed. To prepare the speckled chocolate
cream, place the remaining 2 cups heavy cream, 2 tablespoons sugar
and 1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract in the well-chilled bowl of an
electric mixer fitted with a well-chilled balloon whip. Mix on high
until stiff peaks form, about 1 1/4 minutes. Remove the bowl from the
mixer and use a rubber spatula to fold in the 4 ounces grated
chocolate. Transfer the cream to a stainless steel bowl and
refrigerate for at least 30 minutes before assembling the parfaits.

To assemble the parfaits, fill a pastry bag (without a tip) with the
dark chocolate cream. Pipe an even layer of about 1/2 cup of the
cream into each of the brandy snifters. Then fill a clean pastry bag
with the cocoa cream and pipe an even layer of it onto the layer of
dark chocolate cream. For the final layer of cream, fill a clean
pastry bag with the speckled chocolate cream and pipe an even layer
of the cream onto the cocoa cream. Refrigerate the parfaits until
just a few minutes before serving.

Yield: 8 servings

BAKERS' DOZEN MARCEL DESAULNIERS SHOW #BD1A25

