Title: Cinnamon Pecan Coffee Ring With Orange Icing
Categories: Live
Yield: 4 servings
1    Batch Quick brioche dough
Cinnamon Pecan Filling:
2 c  Pecan pieces
3/4 c  Sugar
1 ts Ground cinnamon
White of 1 large egg
1 ts Grated lemon zest
3/4 c  Strained apricot preserves
1/2 c  Raisins or currants
Confectioners' Sugar Icing:
2 c  Confectioners sugar
1/4 c  Orange juice
Line a cookie sheet or jelly roll pan with parchment or foil.

Roll dough into an 8 by18-inch rectangle. Fold the dough in half the
long way, slide the 4 by18-inch dough onto a cookie sheet, cover with
plastic wrap and refrigerate. To make the filling, place the pecan
pieces in the work bowl of a food processor. Process until they are
reduced to a paste. Add the sugar and pulse several times to mix. Add
all the filling ingredients except the preserves. Remove the
rectangle of dough from the refrigerator and unfold it on the work
surface. Spread the dough evenly with the filling, using a small
offset metal spatula. Stir the preserves to soften them, then spread
evenly over the filling with a spatula. Sprinkle with the raisins.

Begin at one of the long ends and roll the filling up in the dough to
form a roll about 18-inches long. If the dough has softened during
the spreading and rolling, cut the roll in half, slide both pieces
onto a pan and refrigerate until firm, about 15 minutes. Mark the top
of the roll at 1 1/2-inch intervals, then cut through with a sharp,
thin knife, making 12 slashes in the roll. Arrange the slashed piece
of dough on the pan and connect the ends. Fan out the cut portions.
Cover pan with buttered plastic wrap and allow dough to rise until
the spaces between the rolls are filled in, up to one hour. About 40
minutes after putting the cake to rise, set a rack at the middle
level of the oven and preheat to 350 degrees.

Bake about 45 minutes, until the dough is firm and baked through and
a deep golden color. Place the pan on a rack until cool enough to
handle, then slide to a cooling rack. When cool, invert to a platter
and drizzle the cake with the icing.

To make icing:

Combine confectioners' sugar and orange juice and place over low
heat. Stir until luke-warm, then drizzle over cooled cake.

COOKING LIVE SHOW #CL9045

All recipes courtesy of Nick Malgieri

