Title: Clafouti
Categories: Live
Yield: 4 servings
1 1/2 c  Milk
1 c  Heavy cream
1/2    Vanilla bean
2    Cinnamon sticks
1    Heaping tablespoon
All-purpose flour
3/4 c  Sugar
6    Eggs
1 ts Minced lemon zest
1 pt Raspberries
1 pt Blueberries
1    Prebaked tart shell (recipe
Follows)
Heat milk and cream with vanilla bean and cinnamon sticks. Scald and
let cool, then strain out vanilla bean and cinnamon sticks. Into
strained mixture, whisk in flour, sugar, eggs and lemon zest and
transfer mixture to a pitcher or a pour spout.

Assemble berries in pre-baked, room-temperature tart shell.
Raspberries should be top down (with opening down). Tightly packed
but only one layer of fruit.

Pour just enough batter over berries to almost come up even with
fruit. Be careful not to put too much, but enough to fill in all the
spaces and come 5/6ths of the way up the berries.

Bake 15 to 20 minutes at 350 degrees until set and slightly brown on
top.

COOKING LIVE SHOW# CL9190

Recipe courtesy of Josh Moulton

TART SHELL

6 tablespoons butter
1/2    cup confectioners' sugar 2 large egg yolks 1 egg, beaten
(divide into two equal parts, save half for recipe, discard remaining
half or save for another use) 2 cups all-purpose flour
1/8    teaspoon vanilla 1 beaten egg white

Cream butter and sugar in a mixer with paddle. Slowly add egg yolks,
beaten egg half, and vanilla. Add flour and mix until just combined.
Wrap in plastic wrap and chill at least 2 hours. Remove from
refrigerator, unwrap and roll on a floured surface into a 3/8-inch
thick circle. Drape into an 11 or 12-inch tart pan and press into
corners. Line pastry with parchment paper and fill with dried beans
or pie weights and bake at 350 degrees for 20 minutes until light
brown. While still warm, remove weights and parchment paper and brush
slightly with a beaten egg white, taking care not to use too much and
to only brush the inside of the shell. Let tart shell rest at room
temperature until ready to fill.

COOKING LIVE SHOW# CL9190

Recipe courtesy of Josh Moulton

