Title: Coffee-Roasted Beef Fillet with Sage and Wild Mushrooms
Categories: Chef du jur, Meats
Yield: 4 servings
2 lb Fillet of beef
(Chateaubriand)
1 ts Coarse salt
1 ts Freshly-ground black pepper
2 tb Extra-virgin olive oil, plus
Extra for garnish
1 tb Finely chopped fresh sage,
Plus 1 tablespoon for sauce
2 tb Finely ground coffee
3 tb Butter
1/2    Onion, minced
4    Garlic cloves, minced
2    Pasilla chilies, stemmed,
Seeded, and torn into pieces
2 c  Chicken stock
1    Chipotle chile in Adobo
Sauce
1 tb Adobo sauce
1 lb Shiitake mushrooms, stems
Removed and chopped
1 ts Maple syrup or brown sugar
Fresh sage leaves sauteed in
Butter for garnish
Tie the fillet with butcher twine at 1/2-inch intervals. Rub the
fillet with salt, pepper, sage, and oil. Spread coffee over a work
surface and roll fillet in it to coat. Marinate fillet for 30 minutes.

Heat a skillet over medium high heat and add 1 tablespoon butter. Add
onion and garlic and saute until browned. Add the Pasilla chile and
saute. Add stock, chipotle, and adobo sauce and simmer, cover, for 10
minutes. Remove from heat and let cool. Transfer ingredients to a
blender and puree for 30 seconds. If needed, add enough water to make
2 cups.

In a clean skillet melt remaining butter and add mushrooms and
remaining tablespoon of sage and saute, stirring, until lightly
browned. Add sauce and scrape the bottom of the skillet with a spoon
to deglaze the mushroom juices. Bring the liquid to a boil then
simmer for 10 minutes. Add salt, pepper, and maple syrup. If sauce
becomes too thick, thin with water.

Preheat oven to 400 degrees. Roast fillet on a roasting rack on a
roasting pan for 10 minutes. Reduce oven temperature to 250 degrees
and cook the fillet for about 20 minutes more or until the meat
registers 125 degrees for medium rare or 135 degrees for medium meat
on a meat thermometer. Serve with slices of fillet over
cheddar-cheese grits and garnish with oil and sage.

Yield: 4 to 6 servings

CHEF DU JOUR ROBERT DEL GRANDE SHOW #DJ9062

