Title: Cold Shrimp Bisque With A Smoked Shrimp Relish
Categories: Emeril
Yield: 4 servings
3 lb Large shrimp, head on
2 tb Olive oil
Salt and white pepper
2 c  Chopped onions
1 c  Chopped carrots
1 c  Chopped celery
1 c  Brandy
1/4 c  Tomato paste
3    Crushed garlic cloves
2    Bay leaves
4    Sprigs of fresh tarragon
4    Sprigs of fresh thyme
6    Black peppercorns
Water to cover (about 1
Gallon)
4 oz Flour
4 oz Butter
1 c  Heavy cream
2 ts Chopped fresh tarragon
Splash of brandy
Peel the shrimp, reserving the shells. In a large stock pot, over
medium high, heat the oil. Add the shrimp shells. Season with salt
and pepper. Saute for 4 minutes. Add the mirepoix. Season with salt
and pepper. Saute for 4 to 6 minutes, or until tender. Carefully add
the brandy and flame, shaking the pan back and forth a couple of
times. After the brandy has cooked off, stir in the tomato paste.
Cook for 2 minutes. Add the garlic, bay leaves, tarragon, thyme, and
peppercorns. Stir in the water. Bring the liquid to a boil. Reduce
the heat to medium and simmer for 45 minutes. In a mixing bowl,
combine the flour and butter, mix well to form a Beurre Manie from
the mixture into a long about 1-inch thick. Wrap the mixture in
plastic wrap and chill until firm. Strain the liquid. Wash out the
stock pot and place the liquid back into the pan and bring the liquid
back to a simmer. Whisk in the Beurre Manie a small piece at a time.
Cook for 20 minutes. Whisk in the cream. Season with salt and pepper.
Remove from the heat and cool completely. Refrigerate until
completely chilled, about 2 hours. Preheat the smoker. Season the
shrimp with salt and white pepper. Place the shrimp in the smoker and
smoke for 6 to 8 minutes, or until the shrimp turn pink and the tails
curl in. Remove from the smoker and cool. Remove the soup with the
refrigerator and season with salt and pepper. To serve, ladle the
soup into each bowl. Garnish each soup with 2 shrimp, tarragon and a
splash of Brandy.

Yield: 8 to 10 servings

EMERIL LIVE SHOW #EMIB48

