Title: Couscous with Roasted Tomato
Categories:
Yield: 4 servings
MMMMM------------------MICHAEL'S PLACE #ML1A04-----------------------
4    Beefsteak tomatoes, halved
And seeded
3 tb Olive oil
1 c  "quick" couscous, steamed
According to package
Directions
2 tb Chopped or julienne basil
Salt and ground pepper to
Taste
MMMMM------------------------VINAIGRETTE-----------------------------
2 tb Sherry vinegar
1 tb Honey
1 sm Jalapeno pepper, seeded and
Finely diced
1/4 ts Ground cumin
1/4 c  Finely chopped scallions
Salt and pepper
4 tb Olive oil
Preheat oven to 200 degrees. Cut the tomatoes in half and place them,
cutside down, on a baker's rack set in a roasting pan and placed in a
200 degree oven for 15 minutes. After 15 minutes, the skins can be
easily plucked off the tomatoes, using your fingers, a pair of tongs,
or a fork.

Drizzle the peeled tomato halves with olive oil and return them to
the 200 degree oven for another 11/2 hours, until the tomatoes are
roasted to a dark red. The excess moisture will have evaporated, and
the remaining tomatoes will have a delicious concentrated flavor and
aroma.

Prepare the vinaigrette by combining the vinegar, honey, jalapeno,
cumin, scallions and salt and pepper in a mixing bowl. Whisk together
thoroughly before slowly drizzling in the oil completely. Cook the
couscous according to the package directions. Cut the roasted tomato
halves into quarters, and combine with the steamed couscous. Add the
basil and adjust the seasoning. Drizzle with vinaigrette. And toss to
combine.

Nutritional information per serving:  xx calories, xx gm protein, xxx
mg cholesterol, xx gm carbohydrate, xxx mg sodium, x gm fiber, xx gm
fat (x gm sat, x gm mono, x gm poly), x mg iron, xx mg calcium, xx%
of calories from fat.

Brought to you by MMCONV and Sylvia Steiger, SylviaRN (at) compuserve
(dot) com (change characters as needed, this is to prevent bulk
E-mailers from capturing my address), moderator of GT Cookbook and
FringeNet Lowfat & Luscious echoes, creator of Frazzled Cook
breadmachine mixes, homepage
http://ourworld.compuserve.com/homepages/SylviaRN

