Title: Crawfish Quiche
Categories: Emeril
Yield: 4 servings
2 1/2 c  All-purpose flour
2 ts Salt
1/4 ts Cayenne
1 c  Solid vegetable shortening
Water
2 tb Unsalted butter
1/4 c  Small diced yellow onions
3 tb Small diced red bell
Peppers
2 ts Chopped garlic
2 3/4 ts Salt, in all
1/4 ts Plus 1/8 teaspoon cayenne,
In all
1/2 lb Peeled crawfish tails (about
1    Cup)
2 c  Heavy cream
4    Eggs
1/4 ts Tabasco
1/2 ts Worcestershire sauce
2 tb Chopped chives
3 tb Grated Parmigiano-Reggiano
Cheese
1/2 c  Grated White Cheddar cheese
1/2 c  Grated medium Cheddar
Cheese
In a mixing bowl, combine the flour, 2 teaspoons salt, and 1/4
teaspoon cayenne.  Cut in the shortening until the mixture resembles
a coarse meal-like texture.  Add the water and mix until the mixture
comes away from the side of the bowl.  Form the dough into a ball.
Cover the ball of dough with plastic wrap and place in the
refrigerator. Chill for at least 1 hour or as long as 8.  Remove it
from the refrigerator and let sit (temper) for about 5 minutes.
Lightly dust a work surface. Roll the dough out to a 12-inch round
about 1/4-inch thick. Fold the dough into fourths and place in a
10-inch fluted (quiche) pan. Press the dough, using your fingers,
firmly onto the bottom and sides of the pan.  Roll a wooden rolling
pin, over the pan to cut off or remove the excess dough.  Prick the
bottom of the crust all over with a fork.  In a medium sauté pan,
over medium heat, melt the butter.  Add the onions, bell peppers,
garlic, 1 teaspoon salt, and 1/4 teaspoon cayenne.  Sauté for 4
minutes. Add the crawfish tails and sauté for 2 minutes.  Remove from
the heat and cool. In a mixing bowl, whisk the cream, eggs, remaining
3/4 teaspoon salt, remaining 1/8 teaspoon cayenne, Tabasco,
Worcestershire sauce, chives, and grated Parmesan cheese. Turn the
crawfish mixture into the pastry shell.  Sprinkle the grated cheese
over the crawfish.  Pour the cream mixture over the crawfish. Place
in the oven and bake for about 55 minutes, or until the center sets
and the top is golden.  Remove from the oven and cool for 5 minutes,
before slicing to serve.

Yield: 8 servings

EMERIL LIVE SHOW #EMIA18

