Title: Crawfish Turnovers
Categories: Emeril
Yield: 4 servings
3 c  Flour
1 ts Salt
1 1/2 c  Solid vegetable shortening
3/4 c  Ice water
1/2    Stick butter
1 c  Chopped onions
1/2 c  Chopped bell peppers
1/2 c  Chopped celery
Salt and cayenne pepper
3/4 ts Paprika
1 lb Peeled crawfish tails
2 tb Flour
1/2 c  Water
3 tb Chopped parsley
3 tb Chopped green onions
1    Egg, beaten
Combine the flour and salt in a mixing bowl.  Add the shortening and
work it in with your hands until the mixture resembles coarse meal.
Using the tines of a fork, stir as much of the water as you need to
bring the dough together, 1 tablespoon at a time.  Work it with your
hands until you have a smooth ball of dough.  Do not over handle the
dough. Wrap it in plastic wrap and refrigerate for at least 1 hour.
In a large saute pan, over medium heat, melt the butter.  When the
butter as melted, add the onions, bell peppers, and celery.  Season
with salt and cayenne. Saute the vegetables until soft, about 6 to 7
minutes. Stir in the paprika. Add the crawfish tails and cook for 5
to 6 minutes, stirring occasionally. Dissolve the flour in the water
and add to the crawfish mixture. Stir for 1 to 2 minutes, or until
the mixture thickens. Remove from the heat and add the parsley and
green onions.  Cool to room temperature.  Preheat the oven to 375
degrees and lightly oil a baking sheet.  Remove the dough from the
refrigerator and place it on a lightly floured surface. With a knife,
cut the dough into 8 equal portions. Lightly flour each piece. Using
your fingers, flatten each piece into a 6-inch round, about 1/4-inch
thick. Fill the center of each one with 1/3 cup of the crawfish
mixture. Brush the edges of each round with some of the beaten egg.
Fold the rounds in 1/2 and crimp the edges with the tines of a fork.
Brush the tops of the turnovers with the remaining beaten egg.  Place
the turnovers on the baking sheet about 1-inch apart.  Bake for 45
minutes or until golden brown.

Yield: 8 turnovers

EMERIL LIVE SHOW #EMIA70 REAL AND RUSTIC LAGNIAPPES

(Adapted from Louisiana Real and Rustic by Emeril Lagasse)

