Title: Cream Of Chayote Soup
Categories:
Yield: 6 servings
MMMMM------------------TOO HOT TAMALES #TH6327-----------------------
1 sl Bacon; or
2 tb Unsalted butter
1    Yellow onion, diced
1 ts Black pepper
5 c  Chicken stock, vegetable
Stock or water
2    Bay leaves
1 sm Boiling potato, peeled and
Sliced
4    Chayotes, peeled, seeded and
Sliced
1 c  Heavy cream; or
Half-and-half
2    Limes, thinly sliced
In a large soup pot over low heat, fry the bacon until almost all the
fat is rendered, or melt the butter. Raise the heat to medium, add
the onion, salt and pepper and cook, stirring occasionally, until
soft, about 5 minutes. Add the stock or water, bay leaves and potato
and simmer until the potato slices are soft, about 20 minutes

When the potato slices are soft, remove and discard the bay leaves and
bacon. Add the chayotes and bring to a boil. Return the heat to
medium and simmer, uncovered, until the chayotes are soft, about 15
minutes. Remove from the heat and let cool slightly. Working in
batches, puree the soup in a blender until smooth. As each batch is
pureed, pour the puree through a sieve placed over a bowl, pressing
with the back of a spoon to extract all the juices. Pour the puree
back into the pot, add the cream or half-and-half and bring just to a
boil. Taste and adjust the seasonings.

Remove from the heat and ladle into warmed bowls. Slip a few lime
slices into each bowl and serve hot.

Nutritional information per serving:  xx calories, xx gm protein, xxx
mg cholesterol, xx gm carbohydrate, xxx mg sodium, x gm fiber, xx gm
fat (x gm sat, x gm mono, x gm poly), x mg iron, xx mg calcium, xx%
of calories from fat.

Brought to you by MMCONV and Sylvia Steiger, SylviaRN (at) compuserve
(dot) com (change characters as needed, this is to prevent bulk
E-mailers from capturing my address), moderator of GT Cookbook and
FringeNet Lowfat & Luscious echoes.  For breadmachine tips and mixes,
visit my homepage: http://ourworld.compuserve.com/homepages/SylviaRN

