Title: Creme Brulee
Categories: Baker
Yield: 4 servings
l  L/2 cups heavy cream
l  Vanilla bean, split
11 lg Egg yolks
L/3 cup granulated sugar
For the Caramel Sauce:
l  L/4 cups heavy cream
4 tb Unsalted butter, cut into
sm Pieces
2 tb Light corn syrup
l  L/2 cups granulated sugar
In a heavy saucepan, combine the cream and the vanilla bean with its
scrapings. Over low heat, bring to a boil and turn off heat. In a
medium heatproof bowl, whisk together the egg yolks and sugar. Place
over a pan of simmering water and continue to whisk vigorously until
mixture becomes a very pale yellow and feels hot to the touch.

Remove from heat and turn the cream up to high. It will come to a boil
quickly because its already hot. Pour the boiling cream into the yolk
mixture, whisking constantly. Place the bowl over a larger bowl
half-filled with ice cubes. Stir occasionally until cool. Strain
through a fine strainer and refrigerate, covered, until ready to use.
For the Caramel Sauce: In a small saucepan, combine l cup cream with
butter and heat until butter melts and cream is hot. Keep warm.

Spoon the corn syrup into a medium deep saucepan and top with the
sugar. On medium heat, cook until mixture turns a deep amber color
and temperature reaches 225 degrees on a candy thermometer, stirring
often with a wooden spoon. As the mixture turns golden, check the
thermometer often. Immediately remove pan from heat and pour cream
mixture into the sugar, stirring to combine well. Mixture will bubble
up as you pour, so be careful not to burn yourself. Stir in remaining
l/4 cup cream. Strain through a fine-mesh strainer into a heatproof
bowl. If not using the sauce immediately, let cool and refrigerate,
covered, until needed. This will keep for weeks in the refrigerator.

Yield: l l/2 cups

Thaw one package of frozen puff pastry sheets or use homemade puff
pastry. Cut out circles of puff pastry to fit into a six-inch
tartlette pan. Line the pans with the dough and trim excess. Prick a
few holes in the bottom of the dough so it wont rise too much. Place
cut out pieces of parchment paper or coffee filters onto the dough
and fill with pie weights. Blind bake the shells until done. You can
lift the parchment paper to make sure it is baked thoroughly. Let the
shells cool completely before filling.

Slice a few strawberries and lay them down on the bottom of each
shell. Place a few raspberries or blueberries in the shell. Pour
enough of the Brulee cream into the shell to reach the top. Repeat
with remaining shells. Refrigerate the tarts until set, about 3 hours.

Remove from the refrigerator and sprinkle each tart with a little
granulated sugar. Using a propane torch, caramelize the sugar. Serve
on a dessert plate with Caramel Sauce or a few extra berries.

