Title: Creole Spiced Seafood Gazpacho
Categories: Emeril
Yield: 4 servings
2 1/2 lb Creole tomatoes, peeled,
Seeded and chopped
2 ea Red peppers, rough chopped
2 ea Medium yellow onions, rough
Chopped
2 ea Cucumbers, peeled and rough
Chopped
4    Stalks celery, rough
Chopped
1/4 c  Minced shallots
2 tb Minced garlic
2 tb Grated fresh horseradish
1/4 c  Chopped fresh cilantro
2 c  V-8 juice
1/2 c  To 1 cup Absolute Pepper
Vodka
2 tb Worcestershire sauce
ds Liquid Crab Boil
Juice of 4 lemons
Salt and pepper
1/4 c  Brunoise carrots
1/4 c  Brunoise parsnips
1/4 c  Brunoise red onions
1/4 c  Brunoise red peppers
1/4 c  Brunoise celery
1/4 c  Brunoise cucumbers
1/2 c  Extra-virgin olive oil
1/4 c  Finely chopped fresh herbs,
(like basil, chervil,
Tarragon, etc.)
1 lb Medium shrimp, peeled,
Tail-off, and cooked
1 lb Lump crab meat, picked for
Cartilage
1 lb Lobster meat, cooked and
Diced
1 c  Fresh herb salad
In a food processor with a metal blade, combine the chopped
vegetables, shallots, garlic, horseradish, and cilantro. Puree the
mixture until slightly smooth. Add the V-8 juice, Absolute Pepper
Vodka, Worcestershire sauce, juice from 2 lemons and the liquid crab
boil. Puree until the mixture is smooth. Season with cayenne, salt,
and pepper. Remove the mixture from the food processor and
refrigerate for 6 hours, so the flavors can marry. Bring a pot of
salted water to a boil. Add the vegetables and blanch for 1 minute.
Remove and shock the vegetables in a bowl of ice water. Remove the
vegetables and pat dry. In a mixing bowl, whisk the extra virgin
olive oil and remaining lemon juice together. Add the herbs and whisk
well. Season with salt and pepper. In a mixing bowl, toss the
brunoise vegetables with 1/4 cup of the vinaigrette and season with
salt and pepper. Toss each of the seafood with the remaining
vinaigrette. Season with salt and pepper. To assemble, place a pile
of each seafood in the bowls. Ladle the gazpacho into each bowl.
Spoon the vegetable relish in the center of each bowl. Garnish with
the herb salad.

Yield: 6 to 8 servings

EMERIL LIVE SHOW #EMIB58 ROAD STAND MARKETS

