Title: Crispy Ahi With Potato Mushroom Hash
Categories: Tvfn
Yield: 4 servings
6    6 ounce Ahi Tuna blocks
2 ts Fresh ginger, finely grated
1/4 c  Fresh coriander leaves
6    Rice paper sheets (available
In Thai or Oriental
Markets)
Potato Mushroom Hash:
3 c  Russet potatoes, diced
1/2    -inch
1 1/2 c  Shiitake mushrooms, diced
1/2    -inch
1 1/2 c  Button mushrooms, diced
1/2    -inch
1 tb Garlic, minced
2 tb Italian Parsley, chopped
Fine
1 c  Mashed potatoes
Salt and white pepper to
Taste
1/4 c  Olive oil
Tart pan with 6 non-stick
Compartments
Fresh spinach:
12 c  Fresh spinach leaves
1 tb Extra virgin olive oil
1 tb Shallots, minced
Salt and white pepper to
Taste
To cook the tuna:

Under cold running water, moisten the rice paper and put on a work
surface until pliable. In a bowl, combine the tuna and ginger and
toss to coat evenly. Place the coriander leaves evenly over the tuna.
Place the tuna in the center of the rice paper and fold up into a
parcel. This can be done 4 hours in advance.

For the Spinach:

In a large saute pan, heat the oil over medium heat. Add the shallots
and spinach and toss until wilted. Season with salt and pepper

For the Hash:

Heat heavy-bottomed saute pans over high heat. Add the olive oil. When
slightly smoking, add separately the potatoes and mushrooms, and saute
until crisp and browned. Combine these in a large bowl and let cool
to room temperature. Add the garlic, parsley, mashed potatoes, salt
and pepper. Fill the non-stick tart pans with the hash and pack down
to form a cake.

To serve:

Place the hash in the non stick tart pans in the oven for
approximately 10 minutes at 350 degrees to heat through. Heat a non
stick saute pan over medium heat and add olive oil. Add the tuna
parcels and cook until crispy and to desired doneness. Approximately
7 minutes for medium rare. Unmold one hash each onto a serving plate,
top with the sautéed spinach, then the crisp tuna. Surround the hash
with red wine sauce.

GOURMET GETAWAYS WITH ROBIN LEACH SHOW #GG1A2 (courtesy Trey Foshee,
The Bay Terrace, Mauna Lani Bay Hotel and Bungalows)

