Title: Croissants
Categories: Taste
Yield: 4 servings
1/4 c  Warm water
1/2 oz Compressed yeast or 1
pk (1/4-ounce) active dry
Yeast
4 c  Unbleached all-purpose flour
Plus 2 tablespoons
3 tb Sugar
2 1/2 ts Salt
1/4 c  Cold unsalted butter, cut
Into bits
1 c  Milk
1 1/2 c  Cold unsalted butter
For the glaze:
1 lg Egg
1 tb Milk
Make the dough: In a small bowl combine the water and yeast and let
proof for 5 minutes. In a food processor combine the flour, sugar and
salt and process to combine -- about 30 seconds. Add the butter and
process until mixture resembles fine meal. With the motor running add
the yeast mixture and the milk, in a stream, and continue to process
until a dough is formed. Transfer dough to a lightly floured surface
and gently knead for 1 minute. Wrap in plastic and chill for at least
30 minutes, or overnight.

On a lightly floured surface pat the rested dough into a 10 by 4-inch
rectangle. Roll the dough into a 14 by 9-inch rectangle.

In a bowl with an electric mixer beat the butter with remaining 2
tablespoons flour until it is pliable but still cold and firm. Between
sheets of parchment or waxed paper roll the butter into a rectangle
large enough to cover two-thirds of the dough with a one-inch border
all around.

Using parchment paper, invert butter onto the bottom two-thirds of the
dough, leaving a 1-inch border all around. Fold the top-third of the
dough down over the top half of the butter. Fold the bottom third up
over the top (like a letter) and pinch edges to seal.

Turn dough over, seam side down, give it one quarter turn and roll
lengthwise into a 20 by 10-inch rectangle. Turn the dough over, seam
side up, and fold like a letter. This is one turn. Chill dough,
wrapped in plastic, for 30 minutes, or until firm.

Arrange dough on lightly floured surface, with folded edge to your
left, and roll lengthwise into a 20 by 10-inch rectangle. Fold and
chill as before. Repeat process two more times, giving the dough four
turns in all. After the fourth turn chill dough for at least 3 hours,
or overnight.

Line two baking sheets with parchment paper.

Form the croissants: On a lightly floured surface roll the dough into
a 25 by 14 by 1/4-inch rectangle. Halve the dough lengthwise into two
7-inch strips. Using a pastry wheel or a long chef's knife, cut the
strips into triangles, each with a base of 4 to 5 inches. Beginning
with the base of each triangle, fold 1/4-inch of the dough over onto
itself and begin rolling the triangle up to the point. Gently stretch
the dough by pulling on the tip as you roll it. Repeat with the
remaining triangles. If dough becomes soft, chill. Transfer the
croissants to the baking sheets as they are formed spacing them 2
inches apart.

Make the glaze: in a bowl whisk together the egg and milk. Brush the
croissants with the glaze and let rise, uncovered, in a cool place
(about 65 to 75 degrees) for 1 1/2 to 2 hours.

Let croissants rise in a warmer place (about 75 to 80 degrees) for 1
1/2 hours more, or until almost doubled in size. Brush once more with
the glaze and place on the center rack of a preheated 400 degree oven
for 15 to 17 minutes, or until golden brown. Transfer to racks to
cool.

Yield: about 2 dozen

TASTE SHOW #TS1G17

For the dough:

