Title: Duck Stew Foggia Style with Olives, Fennel Seeds and Tort
Categories:
Yield: 4 servings
MMMMM--------------------MOLTO MARIO #MB5721-------------------------
1    (4 pound) Muscovy duck, or 2
Wild ducks
6 tb Virgin olive oil
1/2 lb Pancetta, cut into 1/4-inch
Dice
1 lg Spanish onion, chopped into
1/4    -inch dice
2    Ribs celery, cut into
1/4    -inch rounds
1 tb Fennel seeds
2 c  Green olives from Ascoli
2 c  Sweet Aleatico di Puglia
Wine
2    Dried hot peppers from
Puglia
MMMMM---------------------BASIC TOMATO SAUCE--------------------------
1/3    Spanish onion, cut into
1/4    -inch dice
2    Cloves garlic, thinly
Sliced
1 oz Virgin olive oil
1 1/2 tb Fresh thyme (or 2
TB dried)
1/4 md Carrot, finely shredded
28 oz Cans of tomatoes, crushed
And mixed well with their
Juices
Salt, to taste
BASIC TOMATO SAUCE: Saute the onion and garlic in the olive oil over
medium heat until translucent, but not brown (about 10 minutes). Add
the thyme and carrot and cook 5 minutes more. Add the tomatoes. Bring
to a boil, lower the heat to just bubbling, stirring occasionally for
30 minutes. Season with salt to taste. Serve immediately, or set
aside for further use. The sauce may be refrigerated for up to one
week or frozen for up to 6 months.

Cut duck up into 10 pieces by splitting the breast and cutting each
in half into 3 pieces, 2 thighs, 2 drumsticks and 2 wings. Save the
liver and use it to thicken the sauce.

In an 8 to 10-quart heavy bottomed braising pan or Dutch oven, heat 6
tablespoons virgin olive oil over medium flame until smoking. Place
duck pieces skin side down and cook until golden brown and most of
the fat has been rendered. Cooking 4 to 6 pieces at a time, this
should take 20 to 30 minutes. When done, drain pan of all but 2
tablespoons of fat and add pancetta. Cook until lightly browned and
add onion, celery, carrots and fennel seeds and cook until softened,
about 10 minutes. Add olives, sweet wine, tomato sauce and hot
peppers and bring to a boil. Submerge duck pieces and liver and bring
to a boil. Lower the heat and simmer 1/2 hour, or until duck is
falling off the bone. Remove duck and liver to platter with tortiera.
Using a wooden spoon, chop liver to fine mush, return to pan and
season sauce with salt and pepper. Pour sauce over duck and serve.

Nutritional information per serving:  xx calories, xx gm protein, xxx
mg cholesterol, xx gm carbohydrate, xxx mg sodium, x gm fiber, xx gm
fat (x gm sat, x gm mono, x gm poly), x mg iron, xx mg calcium, xx%
of calories from fat.

Brought to you by MMCONV and Sylvia Steiger, SylviaRN (at) compuserve
(dot) com (change characters as needed, this is to prevent bulk
E-mailers from capturing my address), moderator of GT Cookbook and
FringeNet Lowfat & Luscious echoes, creator of Frazzled Cook
breadmachine mixes, homepage
http://ourworld.compuserve.com/homepages/SylviaRN

