Title: El Rey Chocolate Banana Tart
Categories: Tvfn
Yield: 4 servings
1 1/2 c  All-purpose flour
1 c  Confectioners sugar
1/2 c  Almond flour
12 tb Cold unsalted butter, cut
Into small pieces
2    Eggs
Banana filling:
4    Ripe bananas, sliced
4 tb Unsalted butter, cut into
sm Pieces
1/2 c  Dark brown sugar
Chocolate Tart Mixture:
3 oz El Rey Chocolates Bucare
Bitter
3 tb Unsalted butter
3    Egg yolks
1/4 c  Sugar
3    Egg whites
Make the crust:

Place the flour, sugar and almond flour in the bowl of a heavy-duty
mixer. Add the butter, and using the paddle attachment, beat the
butter into the dry ingredients until a grainy texture is reached and
no lumps of butter are visible.

Add the eggs and mix on low speed until a smooth dough forms.
Preferably, chill the dough overnight, or at least 2 hours before
rolling out to line a 10-inch tart pan.

Make the banana filling:

Place the sliced bananas into the prepared tart shell. Place the
pieces of butter on top of the bananas. Sprinkle with the brown sugar.

Make the tart mixture and assemble:

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. In the top of a double boiler over
hot, not boiling water, melt the chocolate and butter, stirring
frequently. Set aside.

In a medium bowl, whip the egg yolks and 1 1/2 tablespoons of the
sugar together until the sugar dissolves and the yolks are light in
color and texture. In a separate bowl, whip the egg whites until
foamy; then while continuing to whip, sprinkle in the remaining sugar
and whip until soft peaks form.

Fold the yolks into the chocolate mixture. Carefully fold the beaten
whites into a chocolate mixture until well combined.

Pour an even layer of the tart mixture over the bananas in the tart
shell. Bake in the preheated oven for approximately 20 minutes, or
until the crust turns golden-brown. Remove from the oven; let cook
slightly. Then carefully remove from the mold. Before serving, warm
slightly.

Yield: One 10-inch tart

GOURMET GETAWAYS WITH ROBIN LEACH SHOW #GG1A2 (courtesy Douglas
Rodriguez, Patria, New York)

Almond Cookie Crust:

