Title: Emeril's Danish Dough
Categories: Emeril
Yield: 4 servings
3/4 c  Warm water (105 degrees F to
115    Degrees F)
1/2 c  Milk (105 degrees to 115
Degrees F)
1 ts Pure vanilla extract
1/4 oz Dry active yeast
1/4 c  Sugar
1 ts Salt
4 c  Flour
1/2 ts Cardamom
1    Egg yolk
Flour for dusting, about 1/2
Cup
2    Sticks (8 ounces) cold
Unsalted butter
2    Eggs beaten with 1
TB water
3 tb Sugar
1 tb Ground cinnamon
12 tb Sweetened cream cheese
12 ts Raspberry jam
1 c  Almond filling
1 c  Crushed almond
1/2 c  Apricot glaze
In the bowl of an electric mixer, combine the water, milk, vanilla and
yeast together. With the mixer fitted with a dough hook, on low, beat
the mixture for about 4 minutes to dissolve the yeast. Sift the
sugar, salt, flour and cardamom together. Add this mixture and the
egg yolk to the yeast mixture. Mix on low speed until it light comes
together, then increase the speed to medium and beat until the
mixture pulls away from the sides of the bowl, forms a ball, and
climbs slightly up the dough hook. Remove the dough from the bowl and
let rest in the refrigerator for 15 minutes. On a floured surface,
place the butter. Lightly dust the top of the butter with flour.
Using a rolling pin, lightly pound the butter until flat. Fold the
butter in half and continue to pound the butter until the butter is
workable. Using your hands, shape the butter into a 8-inch square.
Remove the dough from the refrigerator and place on a second floured
surface. Roll the dough into a 16 inch square. Place the butter in
the center of the dough. Fold the ends of the dough in towards the
center, forming a package. Lightly press the ends into the dough,
sealing the package completely. Carefully lift the package off of the
surface and redust the surface with flour. Lay the package back down
on the floured surface. Using a rolling pin, roll the dough out to
about a 24-inch rectangle. Fold one end of the dough into the center,
then the other end, so that it resembles a letter, and forms a
square. (You should have three layers of dough) Place the dough in
the refrigerator and allow the dough to rest for 25 minutes. Roll out
the dough a second time, forming a rectangle. Repeat the folding
process from above two more times, making sure the dust rest between
turns. The following directions are for two types of Danish pastries:

For Cinnamon Rolls:

Roll the dough out 1/4 inch thick. Egg wash the dough. Sprinkle the
sugar and cinnamon over the egg wash. Starting at the bottom, roll
the dough up lengthwise, forming a jelly-roll. Cut the pastry into
1-inch slices. Place the slices, cinnamon and sugar side on a
parchment lined baking sheet and let rise for 30 to 40 minutes.
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F. Brush the tops of each pastry with
the egg wash and bake for 10 minutes. Reduce the heat to 350 degrees
F and continue to bake for 10 minutes or until browned and crisp.
Brush the pastries with the glaze and serve warm.

Yield: 12 servings

For Pinwheel:

On a floured surface, roll the dough out 1/4 inch thick. Cut the
dough into 12 (4-inch) squares. Brush the edges of the dough with the
egg wash. Add a spoonful of the cream cheese filling to the center of
the square. Place a teaspoon of the jam in the center of the cream
cheese. Cut diagonally from each corner to within 3/4 inch of the
center. Fold the four alternate points to the center, pressing them
down lightly to hold them in place. Place the pastries on a parchment
lined baking sheet and let rise for 30 to 40 minutes. Preheat the
oven to 400 degrees F. Brush the tops of each pastry with the egg
wash and bake for 10 minutes. Reduce the heat to 350 degrees F and
continue to bake for 10 minutes or until browned and crisp. Brush the
pastries with the glaze and serve warm.

Yield: 12 servings

For Bear Claws:

Roll the dough out to 1/4-inch thick. The longer the dough the more
claws yielded. Egg wash the entire piece of dough. Spread a thin
layer of almond filling horizontally down the center third of the
dough. Fold the bottom third of the dough up to cover the filling.
Fold the top third of the dough down, like your folding a business
letter. Egg wash the dough. Sprinkle with crushed almonds. Cut the
dough into 1-inch pieces, crosswise (the shorter end). Make three
slashes into the sides of each piece and spread gently into a
horse-shoe shape to separate the toes. Proof until dough in size
about 15 to 20 minutes. Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F. Bake for
10 minutes. Reduce the heat to 350 degrees F and continue to bake for
10 minutes, or until golden and crispy. Remove from the oven and
brush with the apricot glaze and serve.

EMERIL LIVE SHOW #EMIB46 CONTINENTAL BREAKFAST

