Title: Emeril's Great Grilling and Barbecue Tips
Categories: Emeril
Yield: 4 servings  Brush cold grill with oil to prevent sticking.

Use one-gallon zip-lock plastic bags to marinate up to 1 pound of
meats or vegetables in 2 to 3 cups of marinade; seal, pressing out
air, set bag in a large pan or baking dish and marinate,
refrigerated, turning occasionally.

Glass baking dishes work well for marinating too, but avoid aluminum,
which will interact with acids in marinades, and soft plasic or
rubber containers that pick up odors easily.

Trim excess fat from meat to avoid flare-ups; slash fatty edges to
keep meat from curling.

Fill a plant mister with 7 parts water and 1 part vinegar; use to
spray grill when flames flare up.

Preheat gas grills at least 15 minutes; for charcoal grills, light at
least 45 minutes before, and let burn to hot embers, coated with ash.

To flavor your barbecue, add aromatic hardwoods, such as hickory,
mesquite or oak chips or chunks or aromatic fruit woods, such as
apple or cherry or vine cuttngs; soak wood in cold water for at least
30 minutes, then add to hot coals.

Begin grilling when grill temperature stabilizes at 300 Fahrenheit

Use your hand to determine approximate temperature; hold your hand 3
inches above the rack and count the seconds you can comfortably keep
it in place: 5 seconds for low, 4 for medium, 3 for medium-high, 2
for high.

For kebabs:  grease flat, narrow metal skewers or soak bamboo skewers
in water for 30 minutes.

For small, delicate items such as fish, shrimp or asparagus use an
oiled grill basket for easy turning.

For long-cooking vegetables or fruits (such as potatoes, whole heads
of garlic or apples) cut a large piece of heavy-duty aluminum foil,
oil well, fill with sliced vegetables or fruit and seasonings,
drizzle with oil, seal and place on hot grill.

Use long-handled tools and tongs -- not forks -- to turn meat to avoid
piercing and releasing juices

To prevent scorching, brush meat with prepared barbecue sauce only
after it is cooked through

Don't forget to use heavy-duty oven mitts, preferably asbestos

EMERIL GRILLS BARBECUE RECIPE SHOW #EG01

