Title: Enchiladas De Manchego Nortenas
Categories: Tvfn
Yield: 4 servings
30    Dried red chiles (New
Mexican)
3 c  Water
3    Cloves garlic, minced
1    Yellow onion, quartered
1 1/2 ts Ground cumin
1 ts Salt
1/8 ts Pepper
1 ts Sugar
1 tb Oregano, crumbled
2 tb Oil
Enchiladas:
2 lb Grated Mexican Manchego
Cheese
3    Jalapeno chiles, stemmed and
Sliced into thin disks
1 sm Bunch cilantro, leaves only,
Finely chopped
1 sm Yellow onion, cut into
1/4    Inch dice
Canola or vegetable oil for
Frying
24    White corn tortillas
1 c  Crumbled panela
Sprigs of cilantro, for
Garnish
To make the sauce: Wash the chiles and remove their stems, seeds, and
veins. Bring the water to a boil in a medium sized saucepan and add
the chiles. Cover the pan and remove it from the heat. Soak for 1
hour, or until softened, then drain, reserving the soaking water.

In a blender, combine the chiles and their soaking water with the
garlic, onion, cumin, salt, pepper, sugar, and oregano. Puree the
sauce until smooth, adding a little more of the soaking water if it
is too thick.

In a wide saute pan large enough to fit the diameter of the
tortillas, heat the olive oil over mediumlow heat. Add the sauce and
cook for about 10 minutes, stirring occasionally, until thickened
slightly. Taste for seasoning, cover and keep warm at the back of the
stove.

To make the enchiladas: In a mixing bowl, combine the cheese, chiles,
cilantro and the onions and toss to mix.

In another large skillet, heat 1 inch of canola oil over mediumhigh
heat. When it is hot, fry the tortillas, one at a time, for about 30
seconds, or until slightly golden but still pliable. Drain on paper
towels.

Preheat the oven to warm. Ladle some of the sauce in the center of a
warm plate. Coat each tortilla with sauce by dipping it into the pan,
then place it on the plate. Scatter about 1/4 cup of the cheesechile
mixture over, then dip and stack another tortilla. Scatter with the
cheese and make another layer in the same way. Top with a fourth
dipped tortilla and keep warm in the oven while you finish stacking
the dipped tortillas and cheese to make 5 more servings. Top each
stack with a little more sauce, some of the crumbled panela, and a
few sprigs of cilantro and serve immediately.

Yield: 6 servings

TOO HOT TAMALES SHOW #TH6222

Chile Sauce:

