Title: Fabada Asturiana (Bean Stew With Sausages From Asturia)
Categories: Tvfn
Yield: 4 servings
1/2 bn Flatleaf parsley, leaves
Only, finely chopped
1/2 sm White onion, finely diced
1 tb Capers rinsed and coarsely
Chopped
1/2 ts Salt
1/4 ts Freshly ground black pepper
2 tb Sherry vinegar
2 tb Fruity Spanish olive oil
Stew:
1 lb Large white beans, soaked
Overnight
1 tb Olive oil
4 sl Smoked bacon, cut into thin
Strips
4    Onions, sliced
1 tb Paprika
1 lb Leeks, white part only, well
Rinsed and sliced
1 lg Carrot, peeled and coarsely
Chopped
12 lg Cloves garlic, finely
Chopped
2    Ham hocks
2    Bay leaves
3/4 ts Salt
1/2 ts Freshly ground black pepper
1 lb Spicy pork sausages
(preferably blood sausage or
Black pudding),
Cut into 3/4inch slices
In a nonreactive bowl, whisk together the parsley, onion, capers,
salt, pepper, and vinegar. Whisk in the olive oil until evenly
blended. Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate for up to 24 hours.

Drain the beans, reserving the soaking water. In a very large
castiron and enamel or other heavy casserole, heat the oil over low
heat and cook the bacon for 3 to 4 minutes, or until most of the fat
is rendered out. Remove 1 tablespoon of the fat and discard. Add the
onions, paprika, leek, and carrot and continue cooking for 20
minutes, stirring occasionally, until all the vegetables are very
soft. Add the garlic and cook for 5 minutes more.

Add the ham hocks, bay leaves, salt, pepper, and enough of the
reserved soaking water to barely cover the ingredients. Bring the
mixture to a boil and skim off the scum and fat that rise to the
surface. Reduce the heat and simmer over low heat, partially covered,
for 1 hour. Add the sausages and the beans and cook for 1 1/2 hours
more, or until the beans are tender (you may need to add a little
more water to keep the stew moist and juicy). Remove the ham hocks,
remove and discard the rind and fat, and shred the meat. Return the
ham to the pan and discard the bay leaves. Taste for seasoning and
serve warm, with a small dollop of the salsa verde.

Yield: 6 to 8 servings

TOO HOT TAMALES SHOW #TH6205

Salsa Verde:

