Title: Fallen Chocolate Souffle Cake
Categories: Tvfn
Yield: 4 servings
1/4 c  Blanched almonds ( 1-ounce)
3 tb All purpose flour
3 oz Bittersweet or semisweet
Chocolate, chopped fine
1/2 c  Unsweetened Dutch Process
Cocoa powder
1 c  Sugar
1/2 c  Boiling water
2    Egg yolks
1 tb Brandy
4    Egg whites, at room
Temperature
Scant 1/4 teaspoon cream of
Tartar
2    To 3 teaspoons powdered
Sugar
Equipment:
8    Inch round springform pan, 2
1/2    -3 inches deep
8    Cardboard cake circle,
Optional
Position oven rack in the bottom third of the oven and preheat to 375
degrees. Place a round of parchment paper in the bottom of the pan
(unless you plan to serve the cake directly from the bottom of the
pan) and spray the sides with vegetable oil spray. In a food
processor or blender, pulverize almonds with flour until very fine.
Set aside.

In a large mixing bowl, combine chopped chocolate, cocoa, and 3/4 cup
sugar. Pour in boiling water and whisk until mixture is smooth and
chocolate is completely melted. Whisk in egg yolks and brandy. Set
aside

Combine egg whites with cream of tartar in a medium mixing bowl. Beat
on medium speed until soft peaks form. Gradually sprinkle in
remaining sugar and beat on high speed until stiff but not dry. Whisk
the flour and almonds into chocolate mixture. Fold about one quarter
of the egg whites into the chocolate mixture to lighten it. Fold in
the remaining egg whites. Scrape batter into prepared pan; level the
top if necessary.

Bake 30-35 minutes or until toothpick or wooden skewer plunged into
the center comes out with a few moist crumbs clinging to it. Cool in
the pan, on a wire rack. Torte will sink like a souffle; top will be
uneven.

Taking care not to break the edges of the torte, slide a small knife
between the tort and the pan and run it around the pan to release the
cake completely. Invert cake and remove pan and paper liner. Turn
right side up on cardboard circle or platter. Or, simply serve on the
bottom of the springform pan. Torte may be completed to this point
and stored, wrapped airtight one day in advance of serving. Or,
freeze up to two months. To serve, sieve powdered sugar over the top.

Yield: 10 servings

CHEF DU JOUR ALICE MEDRICH SHOW #DJ9150

