Title: Fast French Puff Pastry
Categories: Emeril
Yield: 4 servings
3 c  Unbleached all-purpose
Flour
1 c  Plain bleached cake flour
6 1/2    Sticks chilled unsalted
Butter
1 1/2 ts Salt
1 c  Ice water
Place the flour in your mixing bowl. Rapidly cut the sticks of chilled
butter into lengthwise quarters, then into 1/2-inch dice; add to the
flour. Add the salt. Blend flour and butter together rapidly, the
butter should be roughly broken up but stay in lumps the size of
large lima beans. Blend in the water, mixing just enough so that
dough masses roughly together but butter pieces remain about the same
size. Turn dough out onto a lightly floured work surface. Rapidly
push and pat and roll it out into a 12 by 18-inch rectangle. It will
look messy.

Lightly flour top of dough and, with a pastry sheet to help you, flip
the bottom of the rectangle up over the middle, and then flip the top
down to cover it, as though folding a business letter. Lift the dough
off the work surface with a pastry sheet; scrape the work surface
clean, flour the surface lightly and return the dough to it, settling
it down in front of you so that the top flap is at your right.
Lightly flour top of the dough, and pat, push, and roll it out again
into a rectangle; it will look a little less messy. Fold again into
three as before, each of three "roll-and-fold" operations is called a
"turn". Roll out and fold 2 more times, making 4 "turns" in all, and
by the last "turn" of the pastry it should actually look like dough.
You should see large flakes of butter scattered under the surface on
the dough, which is just as it should be. With the balls of your
fingers make 4 depressions in the dough to indicate the 4 turns. Wrap
the dough in plastic, place in a plastic bag and refrigerate for 40
minutes to firm the butter and relax the gluten in the dough. Give
the dough 2 more turns, beating it back and forth and up and down
first if chilled and hard. Let the dough rest another 30 minutes if
it seems rubbery and hard to roll; then it is ready for forming and
baking.

EMERIL LIVE SHOW #EMIA39

