Title: Five Onion Foccacia And Roasted Vegetable Sandwich
Categories:
Yield: 4 Sandwiches
MMMMM--------------------EMERIL LIVE #EMIA05-------------------------
2 tb Olive oil
1 c  Julienned onions
1 c  Julienned red onions
1 c  Julienned leeks
1/4 c  Julienned shallots
2 tb Chopped garlic
Salt and black pepper
1 tb Yeast
1 tb Sugar
1 c  Warm water (about 110
Degrees F.)
1 ts Salt
3 1/2 c  All-purpose flour
1 ts Vegetable oil
3 tb Kosher salt
1    Red pepper, roasted and
Julienned
1    Yellow pepper, roasted and
Julienned
1 sm Egg plant, roasted and
Sliced
1 md Beet, roasted, peeled and
Sliced
1    Zucchini, roasted and
Sliced
1    Yellow squash, roasted and
Slice
1/2 c  Roasted garlic aioli
1/2 lb Fontana cheese, sliced
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. In a saut&eacute; pan, heat the
olive oil. When the oil is hot, add the onions, leeks, and shallots.
Saut&eacute; for 15 minutes, or until the onions are caramelized.
Stir in the garlic. Season with salt and pepper. Remove from the
heat. Using an electric mixer with a dough hook, whisk the yeast,
sugar, and warm water together, for 2 minutes to dissolve the yeast.
Add the onions mixture. Add the salt and flour. With the mixer on
low, mix until the dough starts to come together. Increase the speed
to medium-high and mix until the dough comes away from the sides of
the bowl and crawls up to dough hook. Grease a mixing bowl with the
vegetable oil. Place the dough in the greased bowl and turn once.
Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and place in a warm, draft free
place until the dough doubles in size about 1 1/2 hours. Turn the
dough out onto a baking sheet. Punch the dough abd press the dough
out to form the size of the pan. Place dough in pan and sprinkle with
kosher salt. Cover the dough and allow to double in size, about 45
minutes. Bake the dough for 30-35 minutes or until the dough is
golden brown. Slice the bread into 8 to 12 pieces, depending on
desired size of the sandwich. Divide the roasted vegetables between
the sandwiches. Spread each piece of foccacia with the aioli. Build
each sandwich, using all the vegetables and cheese. Place the
sandwiches on a baking sheet and place in the oven. Bake for 5 to 8
minutes, or until the sandwiches are hot and the cheese is melted.

Nutritional information per serving:  xx calories, xx gm protein, xxx
mg cholesterol, xx gm carbohydrate, xxx mg sodium, x gm fiber, xx gm
fat (x gm sat, x gm mono, x gm poly), x mg iron, xx mg calcium, xx%
of calories from fat.

Brought to you by MMCONV and Sylvia Steiger, SylviaRN (at) compuserve
(dot) com (change characters as needed, this is to prevent bulk
E-mailers from capturing my address), moderator of GT Cookbook and
FringeNet Lowfat & Luscious echoes.  For breadmachine tips and mixes,
visit my homepage: http://ourworld.compuserve.com/homepages/SylviaRN

