Title: Fresh Egg Pasta
Categories: Tvfn
Yield: 4 servings
3 1/2 c  Unbleached all-purpose flour
Plus 1/2 cup
4    Extra large eggs
1/2 ts Olive oil
Make a mound of the flour in the center of a large wooden cutting
board. Make a well in the middle of the flour and add the eggs, oil
and any other flavoring you choose. Using a fork, beat together the
eggs, oil and flavorings and begin to incorporate the flour starting
with the inner rim of the well. As you expand the well, keep pushing
the flour up to retain the well shape. Do not worry that this initial
phase looks messy. The dough will come together when 1/2 of the flour
is incorporated.

Start kneading the dough with both hands, using the palms of your
hands primarily. Once you have a cohesive mass, remove the dough from
the board and scrape up any left over crusty bits. Lightly flour the
board and continue kneading for 3 more minutes. The dough should be
elastic and a little sticky. Continue to knead for another 3 minutes,
remembering to dust your board when necessary. Wrap the dough in
plastic and allow to rest for 30 minutes at room temperature. Note:
do not skip the kneading or resting portion of this recipe, they are
essential for a light pasta.

Yield: 1 pound

MOLTO MARIO SHOW #MB5747

Crabby Poppers (Crab stuffed Jalapenos)

Stuffing
1 lb Cooked crab meat, drained
1/4    cup Celery, chopped
1/2    cup Onions, chopped
1/2    cup Green chiles, chopped 1 tbs Fresh garlic, minced 3 tbs
Vegetable oil or bacon grease
1 1/2    cups Bread crumbs 3 Eggs, beaten 1 tbs Cilantro, chopped 1
tsp Fresh ground black pepper 2 tsp Salt Jalapenos About 30 Fresh
Jalapeno chiles with stems on 1 cup Flour 2 cups Seasoned bread
crumbs 1 tsp Salt
1/2    tsp Black Pepper 2 Eggs beaten with a little water Oil for
deep frying

1. Heat oil or grease in a heavy pan over medium heat. 2. Saute
celery, onions, green chiles, and garlic ubtil tender; set aside. 3.
Combine bread crumbs, eggs, cilantro, salt, and black pepper. 4. Add
crab meat and cooked vegetebles and mix well.

Jalapenos

1. Rinse chiles well. 2. With a sharp knife or razor blade, make a "T"
shaped cut across, just below the stem, and down one side. 3.
Carefully remove the seeds and membrane. 4. Bring a large pot of
water to a rolling boil. 5. Using a sieve or collander, blanch the
chiles, in batches if necessary, in the boiling water for 3 minutes
and immediately immerse them in cold water to stop the cooking. 6.
Drain chiles on a towel. 7. Put enough stuffing in the chile to just
be able to close the cuts. 8. Place the chiles on a sheet pan when
stuffed. 9. When all the chiles are on the pan, spray them with a
light coat of vegetable oil spray, turning once. 10. Mix the salt and
black pepper in with the flour and put it on a plate. 11. Roll each
popper in the flour, dip it in the egg mixture, roll it in the bread
crumbs and return it to the pan. 12. Deep fry, 3 or 4 at a time, in
hot oil (375-385 degrees F.) until golden brown, turning as
necessary. 13. Drain on paper towels. 14. Serve warm or freeze to be
reheated when wanted.

