Title: Fried Quince Empanadas
Categories: Toohot
Yield: 4 servings
3 lg Ripe plantains, unpeeled
5 lg Ripe quince
Juice of 1 lemon
1 tb Unsalted butter
1 c  Light brown sugar
1 tb Grated fresh ginger
Zest and juice of 1 orange
1/8 ts Ground cloves
1/8 ts Ground cinnamon
1/2 c  Dark rum
1/2 c  Walnuts, coarsely chopped
1 ts Salt
Vegetable oil for
Deepfrying
Powdered sugar
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Cut a lengthwise slit in each
plantain and set on a baking sheet. Bake until the flesh is
thoroughly soft and oozing through the slit, 40-50 minutes. Set aside
to cool.

Meanwhile, make the stuffing: Peel, core and finely chop 3 of the
quinces. Peel and core the remaining 2 quinces and cut each into 8
wedges. Drop the wedges into a bowl of cold water to cover and
squeeze in the lemon juice.

Melt the butter in a small saucepan over moderate heat. Add the brown
sugar and cook, stirring, until the sugar has melted. Add the finely
chopped quinces, ginger, orange zest, cloves and cinnamon and stir to
combine. Add 1 cup of water and continue cooking until most of the
liquid is gone, about 15 minutes. Add the orange juice and rum and
cook until almost all of the liquid is gone, about 5 minutes. Drain
the quince wedges and add to the pan. Reduce the heat, cover and cook
until the wedges are just soft, about 8 minutes. Remove the pan from
the heat, stir in the walnuts and let cool. (The stuffing can be make
a day in advance and refrigerated).

Make the dough in a food processor with a paddle attachment: Peel,
trim and discard any tough ends from the plantains. Combine the
plantains and salt and pulse until a smooth puree is formed, or mix
until just blended. Wrap in plastic and refrigerate about 2 hours.

To assemble: Roll 2 tablespoons of the dough between your palms to
form a ball. Line the bottom of a tortilla press with a small plastic
bag and place the ball of dough in the center. Place another plastic
bag over the dough and press to form a 3 1/2inch circle. Place a
quince wedge on half of the dough circle and top it with a teaspoon
of the sauce. Fold over to enclose the quince and press the edges to
seal. Place the stuffed empanadas on a platter and chill at least 30
minutes.

Heat the vegetable oil to 375 degrees F. Gently drop the empanadas
into the hot oil and fry until golden, about 6 minutes. With a
slotted spoon, remove from the oil and drain on paper towels.
Sprinkle with powdered sugar and serve hot.

Yield: 4 to 6 servings

TOO HOT TAMALES SHOW #TH6354

Dough:

