Title: Fried Polenta Cake With Shrimp Etouffee  And Roasted Corn
Categories: Emeril
Yield: 4 servings
1/4 c  Olive oil plus 2
Tablespoons
6 tb Flour
3    Stalks celery, medium diced
1 c  Chopped onion
1    Green bell pepper, chopped
1 tb Minced garlic plus 1
Teaspoon
1/4 c  Chopped green onions
2 c  Shrimp stock
2 ts Crystal Hot Sauce
4 tb Chopped parsley
2 tb Butter
1 1/2 lb Rock shrimp
Essence
1 c  Roasted sweet corn
1/4 c  Small diced red peppers
1/4 c  Small diced yellow peppers
1 tb Minced shallots
Salt and pepper
1 c  Seasoned flour
2    Eggs, slightly beaten plus 2
TB milk
1 c  Seasoned bread crumbs
Oil for frying
Garnish:
4    Long chives
2 tb Chopped chives
2 tb Brunoise red peppers
2 tb Grated Parmigiano-Reggiano
Cheese
Essence
Preheat the fryer.  For the etouffee:  In a saute pan, heat the olive
oil. Stir in the flour.  Cook the mixture for 6-8 minutes, stirring
constantly, for a brown roux.  Stir in the celery, onions, green
peppers and tablespoon of garlic.  Cook for 3-4 minutes or until the
vegetables start to wilt. Stir in the shrimp stock and Crystal hot
sauce. Bring up to a boil, reduce to a simmer.  Stir in the green
onions. Cover and simmer for 10 minutes. Season with shrimp with
Essence. In a saute pan, heat the butter. Saute the shrimp for 2-3
minutes.  Add the sauteed shrimp to the sauce. Season with salt and
pepper For the relish:  In a saute pan, heat the olive oil, when the
pan is smoking hot, saute the corn, red peppers, yellow peppers,
shallots and remaining garlic.  Saute for 1-2 minutes. Season with
salt and pepper.  Stir in the tablespoon chopped parsley. For the
polenta: Slice the polenta into 8 slices. Dredge each piece in the
seasoned flour. Dip in the egg mixture, removing any excess. Dredge
in the bread crumbs. Fry each piece of polenta until golden brown,
about 2-3 minutes. Remove from the fryer and place on a paper-lined
plate.  Season with Essence.  Slice the cake diagonally, forming two
triangles.  Spoon the etouffee in the center of the plate.  Lay the
polenta against each other on top of the etouffee. Place three small
mounds of the relish around the cake. Garnish with long chives,
chopped chives, peppers, cheese, and Essence.

Yield: 8 servings

ESSENCE OF EMERIL SHOW#EE2336

1/2    Polenta recipe (from above)

