Title: Garlic-Stuffed Sliced Fillet Of Beef Over Emeril's Crispy
Categories: Emeril
Yield: 4 servings
2 lb Beef tenderloin
2 tb Olive oil
Salt
1/4 c  Cracked black pepper
6    Cloves of peeled garlic
5 tb Butter
1 lg Onion, julienned
2 lg Idaho white potatoes,
Peeled
Freshly ground white pepper
4 oz Grated Cheddar cheese
8 oz Chopped crispy bacon
2 ts Chopped chives
3/4 c  Classic Bordelaise Sauce
(recipe follows)
3/4 c  Maytag Blue Sabayon Sauce
(recipe follows)
1 tb Finely chopped fresh parsley
Leaves
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F. Season the fillet with olive oil,
salt and cracked black pepper. Make six small slits in the
tenderloin. Stuff each slit with a clove of garlic. In a large saute
pan, over high heat, sear the fillet for 2 minutes on each side.
Remove from the pan and place in the oven. Roast for 15 to 20 minutes
for medium rare. Remove from the oven and rest for 5 to 10 minutes
before slicing. In a saute pan, over medium heat, melt 1 tablespoon
of the butter. Add the onions. Season with salt and pepper. Cook the
onions until caramelized, about 10 to 12 minutes, stirring
occasionally. Remove from the heat and set aside. Using a box grater,
grate the potatoes. Season the potatoes with salt and pepper. In a
medium nonstick pan, over medium heat, melt 2 tablespoons of the
butter. Add half of the grated potatoes and press firmly into the
pan, covering the entire area of the pan. Cook the potatoes until
golden brown, about 3 to 4 minutes. Using a long metal spatula, flip
over the potato cake and continue to cook until golden and crispy.
Remove the potato cake and place on a parchment or waxed paper lined
baking sheet. In the same pan, melt the remaining butter. Repeat the
process with the remaining potatoes. Spoon the caramelized onions
over one of the potato cakes. Spread the cheese over the onions. Top
the cheese with the crispy bacon and chives. Place the other potato
cake on top of the bacon and place in the oven. Cook for about 4
minutes or until the potato is crispy and the cheese starts to melt.
Remove from the oven and cut the potato cake into fourths. Carve the
fillet into individual slices. To serve, place a wedge of the potato
cake in the center of each plate. Arrange the beef slices on top of
each potato wedge. Spoon the Bordelaise sauce around the potatoes.
Drizzle each plate with the Maytag Blue Sabayon and garnish with
parsley.

Yield: 4 servings

EMERIL LIVE SHOW #EMIB42 MANLY MAN II

