Title: Grilled Fillet Of Beef With Blue Cheese Glacage
Categories: Emeril
Yield: 4 servings
3    To 4 ounces Maytag Blue
Cheese, crumbled
6    Eggs yolks
1 ts Emeril's Worcestershire
Sauce
Juice of 1 lemon
Salt and cracked black
Pepper
1/2    To 3/4 cup heavy cream
6    (8 ounce) beef fillets
2 tb Olive oil
Essence
1 1/2 lb New potatoes, quartered
1    Stick butter (8 tablespoons)
Cubed
Salt, to taste
1/2 c  Heavy cream
1 lb Crispy bacon, chopped
1/2 c  Sour cream
3 c  Emeril's Homemade
Worcestershire Sauce, recipe
Follows
2 tb Chopped green onions
In a food processor with a metal blade, puree the cheese, yolks,
Worcestershire sauce and juice of 1 lemon together, until smooth,
about 2 minutes. Season with salt and cracked pepper. With the
machine running, slowly add the 1/2 cup of cream and combine until
velvety and creamy. If the glacage does not have a ribbon like
texture, add a little more cream. Season the both sides of the
fillets with 1 tablespoon of olive oil, salt and cracked black
pepper. In a large saute pan, heat the remaining olive oil. When the
oil is hot, sear the fillets for 2 minutes on all sides. Remove the
fillets from the pan and place on a parchment lined roasting pan.
Spoon the glacage over each fillet. Place the fillets in the oven and
bake for 8 to 10 minutes for medium rare. Place the potatoes in the
saucepan and cover with water. Season the water with salt. Bring the
liquid to a boil and reduce to a simmer. Cook the potatoes until fork
tender, about 10 minutes. Remove the potatoes from the heat and
drain. Place the potatoes back in the pan. Place the pan back on the
stove, over medium heat, and stir the potatoes for 1 minute, this
will remove any excess water from the potatoes. Add the butter and
cream. Season with salt and pepper. Mash the potatoes until slightly
smooth. Fold the bacon and sour cream into the mash potatoes.
Reseason the potatoes if needed. To serve, mound the potatoes in the
center of each plate. Lay the fillets directly on top of the
potatoes. Spoon any remaining sauce from the roasting pan over each
fillet. Spoon the Worcestershire sauce over each fillet. Garnish with
green onions.

Yield: 6 servings

EMERIL LIVE SHOW #EMIA82 EMERIL'S WORLD

