Title: Grilled Vegetable Salad With Goat Cheese
Categories: Tvfn
Yield: 4 servings
1 lg Red bell pepper
1 lg Orange or yellow bell
Pepper
2    Or 3 small zucchini
2    Or 3 small yellow summer
Squash
1 md Eggplant
1 md Red onion
1 lg Portobello mushroom
Vegetable cooking spray
1/4 c  Rosemary Garlic Oil (recipe
Follows)
1 lg Or 2 smaller bunches
Arugula
Salt and coarsely ground
Black pepper
2 tb Balsamic vinegar
1 tb Fresh lemon juice
2 oz Rindless goat cheese, such
As Montrachet or Coach
Farms
Cut out the pepper stems and then slice each lengthwise along the
ribs or ridges into 3 or 4 large triangular wedges. Trim the stem and
blossom ends from the zucchini and squash and cut them lengthwise
into thin slices. Trim the eggplant and cut crosswise into 12 slices
1/4 to 3/8-inch thick. Peel the onion and cut into 1/4-inch slices.

Trim the portobello mushroom stem even with the cap so it will lie
flat on the grill. Brush all over with 1/2 tablespoon of the Rosemary
Garlic Oil. Set aside.

Set a cast iron grill pan over high heat and coat with vegetable
cooking spray. Let it warm up for 3 to 5 minutes (or light your
outdoor grill). Using a pastry brush, coat the zucchini, squash,
eggplant, and red onion slices with about 2 1/2 tablespoons of the
remaining oil; it will be a very thin film, but it should be enough.
The peppers do not need any. Grill the vegetables, except the onion
in batches as necessary, on each side, rotating them 45 degrees to
make cross-hatch grill marks. They should be cooked until they are
nicely browned, but not charred, cooked through but still hold their
texture. The peppers will have black marks on the outside, but they
are eaten with their skin and bright color intact. Grill the mushroom
stem side down first, so when it is turned and finishes cooking, the
juices will be retained. Reduce the heat to medium high and grill the
onion, turning and rotating as described, until tender and browned
but not burned. Here are the approximate cooking times, which will
vary with your grill:

Peppers - 6 to 7 minutes per side

Zucchini and squash - 2 to 3 minutes on first side, 2 minutes on
second

Eggplant - 4 to 6 minutes per side

Red Onion - 3 to 4 minutes per side

Portobello - 5 to 6 minutes per side

As the vegetables are cooked, transfer them to plates or a large
baking sheet lined with wax paper. Transfer the portobello to a
cutting board and let cool for at least 5 minutes; then slice. Be
sure to reserve any mushroom juices. Season the grilled vegetables
and mushroom lightly with salt and pepper.

Line a large round or oval serving platter with the arugula. Arrange
the grilled vegetables decoratively in bunches around the edge of the
platter. Pile up the pepper wedges in the center.

In a small bowl, whisk together the balsamic vinegar and lemon juice
with the remaining Garlic Rosemary Oil. Mix in any reserved mushroom
juices. Drizzle evenly over the salad. Crumble goat cheese on top.
Serve at room temperature.

Yield: 4 to 6 servings

MICHAEL'S PLACE SHOW #ML1B44 SOAP OPERA GUEST: ROBIN MATTSON

