Title: Ham Pithiviers
Categories: Emeril
Yield: 4 servings
6 oz Best quality ham
2 tb Minced shallots
2    Egg yolks
1/4 c  Heavy cream
dr Worcestershire sauce
dr Hot pepper sauce
Freshly ground pepper
2/3    Puff pastry, recipe above
6 tb Grated Parmesan, Swiss,
And/or Cheddar cheese
Egg glaze (1 egg beaten with
1 ts Water)
Cut the ham into thin irregular slices about 1 by 1 by 1/8-inch and
saute briefly in the butter with the shallots or scallions, just to
warm through thoroughly. Remove from the heat. In a small bowl, beat
the egg yolks with the cream; stir this mixture into the ham along
with drops of Worcestershire and pepper sauce and freshly ground
pepper to taste. Warm over low heat, folding the ham into the sauce,
until it thickens but does not boil. Set aside to cool and thicken
even more. It should be cold when it goes into the Pithiviers. Roll
the dough out into a rectangle about 18 by 9 inches and cut into
thirds crosswise; refrigerate 2 pieces, wrapping and storing one of
them for another use.

Roll remaining pieces, which will be the bottom of the tart, into a
square 12 inches to a side; using a pie plate or cake pan to guide
you, cut a 9 1/2-inch disk out of the center of the dough. Remove
surrounding dough and set on a bake sheet for reconstituting later.
Lightly fold disk in half and set upside down on dampened baking
surface. Roll out second piece of dough to a thickness slightly more
than 1/4-inch and cut into a disk the same size as the first.
Refrigerate it along with the surrounding dough pieces from both
disks. With the balls of you fingers, push and pat the bottom disk of
the dough out onto its baking surface to make an even circle slightly
larger than your cutting guide. With a roller-pricker or two forks,
prick the dough all over at 1/2-inch intervals, going down through
dough to pastry sheet to keep this bottom layer from rising too much.
Form the ham into a round cake about 4 1/2 inches across and place in
the center of the dough. It is important to leave a 2-inch border of
clear dough all around the ham to prevent leakage of the filling
during baking.

Preheat the oven to 425 degrees.

Paint the border of the dough with cold water, and immediately center
the top layer in place, stretching gently as necessary. With a
sharp-pointed knife make a little hole 1/8- inch wide in the center
of the dough, going down into the filling, to allow for escaping
steam during baking, Then, with the ball of your first three fingers,
firmly press the two pieces of dough in place all around. Bake the
Pithiviers for about 20 minutes, until it has puffed and is beginning
to brown nicely. Turn down the oven to 400 degrees F and continue to
bake for 20 to 30 minutes. If the Pithivier begins to brown too
quickly, cover the pie with foil loosely and continue to bake. Remove
from the oven and allow to rest for 5 minutes before slicing. Slice
the pie into wedges.

Yield: 8 to 10 servings

EMERIL LIVE SHOW #EMIA39

