Title: Hazelnut Frangipane Pear Tart
Categories: Baker
Yield: 4 servings
1/2    Recipe pate sable, chilled
(about 10 ounces)
2/3 c  Toasted filberts
2/3 c  Confectioner's sugar
2 oz (1/2 stick) unsalted butter,
Soft
2 tb Sugar
1    Egg
1/4 ts Almond extract
1/2 ts Vanilla extract
3 tb Flour
3 tb Raspberry jam
1 1/2 sm Bosc pears, unpeeled
1 tb Butter, melted
Cut the cold dough in pieces and reknead into a disc.  On a floured
table, press the disc, evening the circle as you go, until it is
about 6 inches in diameter.  Flour the surface of the dough and roll
in into a circle measuring about 1 1/2 inches bigger than the 9-inch
tart mold. Flour as much as you need to prevent the dough from
sticking. Brush off any excess flour, fold the dough in half and
center it over the mold. Press along the bottom edge and side to even
it. Press any excess dough from the bottom edge up the sides so that
they are thicker. Cut off any excess dough with a rolling pin and
press the sides up so it extends about 1/8-inch above the rim.  Dock
the bottom with a fork and freeze. Preheat oven to 375 degrees. Bake
the frozen tart shell until the center barely begins to color, 10 to
12 minutes.  Cool completely. Lower oven to 350 degrees. Combine the
nuts and confectioner's sugar in a food processor and process to a
fine powder, about 30 seconds. In the bowl of a mixer, cream the
butter and sugar until fluffy.  Add the nut powder and mix
thoroughly, scraping down the bowl once or twice.  Add the egg in
three parts, beating after each addition on medium high speed, until
very light and fluffy.  Add the almond and vanilla extracts.  On low
speed, mix in the flour just until incorporated. Spread the jam on
the bottom of the prebaked shell and then spread evenly with the
frangipane.  Slice the pears in half and core.  Cut each half in very
thin slices from blossom to stem, leaving them attached at the stem
end. Cut off the end pieces and cut each half in quarters. Fan out
each quarter and arrange the 6 fans in a circle over the frangipane,
stems to the center. Be sure to leave some space between the fans so
the filling can rise up around them. Brush the pears lightly with
melted butter. Bake about 50 to 55 minutes, until the top is golden
brown and crusty.  If the rim is getting too dark, cover the edge
with foil or pie guards.  Cool in the mold on a rack; remove the
outer ring after 10 minutes.  Slip a flexible metal palate knife
between the tart and the metal bottom and slide off the tart. Cool
completely on a rack before serving. Cut with a sharp serrated knife.

Yield: 1 - 9-inch tart

BAKERS' DOZEN PEGGY CULLEN SHOW #BD1A37

