Title: Hazelnut Cake From Verona
Categories: Live
Yield: 4 servings
2 c  Unblanched hazelnuts, about
10    Ounces
1/2 c  Fine, dry bread crumbs
4    Eggs, separated
3 tb Sweet Marsala or dark rum
2/3 c  Sugar, divided
1 pn Salt
1    Stick unsalted butter,
Melted
Butter and line with parchment a 10 by 2-inch deep layer pan. Set a
rack in the middle of the oven and preheat to 350 degrees.

Place the hazelnuts in a food processor and grind them finely,
pulsing on and off, to avoid making them oily. Pour them into a bowl
and pour the bread crumbs over them without mixing. Beat the yolks in
a mixing bowl and beat in the Marsala, then half the sugar and
continue beating until very light by hand, with a hand mixer set at
medium speed, or in a heavy duty mixer fitted with the whip. In a
clean dry bowl, whip the egg whites with the salt and continue
whipping until the whites hold a very soft peak, by hand, with a hand
mixer set at medium speed, or in a heavy duty mixer fitted with the
whip. Increase the speed and whip in the remaining sugar in a

slow stream. Whip the egg whites until they hold a soft, shiny peak.

Fold the yolk mixture into the whites, then fold in the hazelnut and
bread crumb mixture and when it is half incorporated, pour the melted
butter down the side of the bowl, continuing to fold until the batter
is smooth. Be careful not to over mix the batter or it will deflate.
Cut through the center of the bowl with a rubber spatula, making sure
that the end of the spatula reaches down to the bottom of the bowl on
every pass through the batter, so that none of the ingredients remain
unmixed at the bottom of the bowl.

Pour the batter into the prepared pan and bake the Torta about 30
minutes or until the top is well colored and the center is firm when
pressed with a fingertip. Cool the Torta in the pan for a minute,
then loosen it from the pan with the point of a small paring knife.
Invert it onto a rack, then invert it again so that it cools on the
paper. Serve lightly dusted with confectioners' sugar. Keep the Torta
tightly covered at room temperature or in the refrigerator. If it has
been refrigerated, allow it to come to room temperature before
serving.

Yield: one 10-inch cake

COOKING LIVE SHOW #CL8958

All recipes courtesy of Nick Malgieri

