Title: Hollandaise Sauce
Categories: Try it, Sauces
Yield: 1 Cup
MMMMM--------------------COOKING LIVE #CL8828-------------------------
1 c  Butter; unsalted, cold
3    Egg yolks
1 tb Water; cold
1 tb Juice, lemon
Salt
In a small saucepan with a spout melt 3/4 of butter and set aside.

In the top of double boiler or a heat-proof bowl whisk the egg yolks
until they become thick and sticky. Whisk in the water, lemon juice
and salt. Add a tablespoon of the remaining butter. Place the pan or
bowl over a saucepan of simmering, not boiling, water. Whisk until
mixture is warm, about 2 minutes. (If mixture appears to become lumpy
dip pan immediately in a bowl of ice water to cool, whisk until
smooth and then continue recipe.) The yolk mixture has thickened
enough when you can see the bottom of the pan between strokes and
mixture forms a light cream on the wires of the whip.

Immediately remove from pan or bowl from heat and whisk in 1
tablespoon of the remaining butter to cool the yolk mixture and stop
the cooking.

While whisking the yolk mixture gradually pour in the melted butter, a
tablespoon or so at a time whisking thoroughly to incorporate before
adding more butter. As the mixture begins to thicken and become
creamy, the butter can be added more rapidly. Do not add the milk
solids at the bottom of the melted butter.

Season the sauce to taste with salt, white pepper and lemon juice. To
keep the sauce warm, set the pan or bowl in lukewarm water or in a
thermos.

Nutritional information per serving:  xx calories, xx gm protein, xxx
mg cholesterol, xx gm carbohydrate, xxx mg sodium, x gm fiber, xx gm
fat (x gm sat, x gm mono, x gm poly), x mg iron, xx mg calcium, xx%
of calories from fat.

Brought to you by MMCONV and Sylvia Steiger, SylviaRN (at) compuserve
(dot) com (change characters as needed, this is to prevent bulk
E-mailers from capturing my address), moderator of GT Cookbook and
FringeNet Lowfat & Luscious echoes.  For breadmachine tips and mixes,
visit my homepage: http://ourworld.compuserve.com/homepages/SylviaRN

