Title: Individual Apple Rum Raisin Tartlets
Categories: Toohot
Yield: 4 servings
1    Recipe Flaky Sweet Pastry
1/2 c  Raisins
1/4 c  Rum
4    Granny Smith or other firm
Tart apples
4 tb Unsalted butter
1/4 c  Granulated sugar
1/2 ts Cinnamon
1/8 ts Cloves
1/2 ts Allspice
1 tb Lime juice
1    Egg, beaten
1 tb Light brown sugar
Remove dough from refrigerator onto a lightly floured work surface.
Divide into four equal portions.  Shape each into a ball, then
flatten to form disks.  Roll one disk out to a rough 6 inch circle by
rolling out from center, lifting and turning dough, and occasionally
flipping to prevent sticking.  Flour board as necessary. Place on
cookie sheet lined with parchment or plastic wrap and place another
sheet of parchment or wrap on top.  Roll out second ball of dough in
same manner. Repeat with remaining dough. Refrigerate at least 30
minutes, or until ready to assemble tarts. Preheat oven to 425
degrees.  Combine rum and raisins in a small saucepan and heat over
low medium flame until rum simmers.  Turn off heat and let steep
while you prepare the apples.  Peel the apples, cut them in half, and
core them.  Cut each half into six even wedges. In a large skillet,
melt the butter over medium high heat. When it has stopped foaming,
add the apples and toss well.  Sprinkle sugar, cinnamon, cloves and
allspice over the apples and toss. Lower heat to medium and continue
to sautJ 1015 minutes until apples are lightly browned. Add steeped
raisins with any remaining rum, along with the lime juice, and cook
until liquids have evaporated. Remove from the heat and let cool.
Take dough circles out of refrigerator and place before you on the
board.  Brush each lightly with beaten egg.  Arrange 12 apple wedges
on center of each dough round in a pinwheel pattern., leaving a 1
inch border all around. Spoon remaining raisins over the apples.
Fold edges of dough up over apples, in overlapping fashion.  Brush
dough with egg wash and sprinkle apples with brown sugar.  Bake until
golden brown, about 20 minutes. Serve warm or at room temperature.

TOO HOT TAMALES SHOW #TH6296

