Title: Individualized Breads For Kids And Adults
Categories:
Yield: 4 servings
MMMMM----------------COOKING MONDAY TO FRIDAY #MF---------------------
1 lb "commercial" bread dough,
Divided into four 4ounce
Pieces
Olive oil
Stuffing possibilities for each bread: 2 ounces of a melting cheese
mozzarella for kids, goat's or fontina for adults plus 1 ounce of
sliced prosciutto or smoked ham Seasonings for cheese: hot peppers,
sliced pimentos, anchovy fillets; capers, scallions, or cooked
onions; garlic, sliced black olives; snipped fresh basil, or parsley,
dab of pesto or black olive paste, sundried tomatoes or anything you
can think of.

As best you can, coax each piece of bread into a diameter which is
1/2inch thick. Cut or grate the cheese of choice into manageable
pieces and scatter them on half of the dough, leaving an inch of the
outside edge blank. Top with ham and/or seasonings of choice and
drizzle 1 teaspoon of olive oil on the filling. Fold unfilled half of
the bread over to cover the filling and press all around the edges to
seal. Sprinkle some drops of olive oil on dough and, with your
fingers, spread the oil over the entire top surface of the dough. Set
individual stuffed breads on a lightly oiled or nonstick baking pan.
Let the breads rise, uncovered, for 45 minutes or until doubled.

Preheat the oven to 425 degrees and bake for about 20 minutes (if
fillings ooze out a bit, don't worry). Cool the breads on a wire rack
until lukewarm or room temperature. Serve with a crisp green salad.

Nutritional information per serving:  xx calories, xx gm protein, xxx
mg cholesterol, xx gm carbohydrate, xxx mg sodium, x gm fiber, xx gm
fat (x gm sat, x gm mono, x gm poly), x mg iron, xx mg calcium, xx%
of calories from fat.

Brought to you by MMCONV and Sylvia Steiger, SylviaRN (at) compuserve
(dot) com (change characters as needed, this is to prevent bulk
E-mailers from capturing my address), moderator of GT Cookbook and
FringeNet Lowfat & Luscious echoes.  For breadmachine tips and mixes,
visit my homepage: http://ourworld.compuserve.com/homepages/SylviaRN

