Title: Jumbo Lump Crabcakes, Cucumber Carrot Salad And Chipotle
Categories: Tvfn
Yield: 4 servings
1 c  Soy oil
1/2 c  Chopped onion, small dice
3/4 c  Chopped peppers (red, green
And yellow), small dice
3    Egg yolks
1/4 c  Fresh lime juice
1/4 c  Dijon mustard
1/2 tb Tabasco
1 tb Vietnamese fish sauce
1 lb Jumbo lump crabmeat,
Uncleaned
1 1/2 tb Each of fresh dill, chives
And parsley, cleaned, stems
Removed and roughly chopped
1 1/2 c  Fresh bread crumbs (crusts
Removed)
1 c  Japanese bread crumbs,
(Panko)
1 tb Freshly ground white pepper
2    Eggs
Vegetable oil for sauteing
Method:

Pre-heat the oven to 350 degrees.

In a sauce pan over medium heat, place the oil, onions and peppers,
and simmer until the vegetables are tender, about 7 minutes.

Combine the 3 egg yolks, lime juice, mustard, Tabasco, fish sauce in a
large bowl. Remove the oil and vegetables from the heat. Slowly pour
into the yolk mixture, whisking constantly. Begin by pouring with
small splashes, incorporating the oil completely before adding more.
The heat of the oil will cook the yolks as you go, and you should end
up with a hollandaise-like sauce when all the oil has been blended.
Return the saucepan to the heat for 30 seconds, whisking constantly
to insure that sauce is fully incorporated.

Set the saucepan down over a bowl of ice and whisk to cook quickly.
Refrigerate the sauce covered, until it is well-chilled.

Make the crab cakes:

Pick over crab meat to remove any shell pieces. Add the herbs and
gently toss, taking care not to break up the crab. Add two or three
heaping tablespoons of the chilled sauce base to the crab and gently
combine. Add enough of the bread crumbs to bind the crab mixture.
Check to see that the mixture is moist (the bread crumbs will absorb
moisture as the crab mix sits) and add more sauce or bread crumbs as
needed. Add the white pepper and taste for seasoning. Form the crab
into little cakes, about 2 inches in diameter. In a separate bowl,
beat the eggs. One at a time, coat each crab cake with egg. Then coat
with Japanese bread crumbs. Heat 1/4 of vegetable oil in a large
saute pan over medium heat. SautJing in batches, brown the crab cakes
on both sides and reserve on a platter. Place in a pre-heated 350
degree oven for 2-3 minutes to heat through, and serve.

CHEF DU JOUR RICK MOONEN SHOW #DJ9321

