Title: Lamb Quinoa Stew
Categories: Live
Yield: 4 servings
1 1/2 lb Plum tomatoes, quartered
Lengthwise
1 lb Firm eggplant (about 1
Small), cut into 1-inch
Cubes
1/4 c  Olive oil
2    Red bell peppers, cut into
1    Inch pieces
2    Yellow onions, cut into
1    Inch pieces
1    Red onion, cut into 1-inch
Pieces
3 lg Carrots, cut crosswise into
1/2    -inch pieces
2 lb Boneless lamb shoulder,
Trimmed and cut into 1-inch
Cubes
1 lb Piece butternut squash,
Peeled and cut into 1-inch
Cubes (about 2
Cups)
5 lg Garlic cloves, minced
2    Cinnamon sticks, halved
1/2 ts Ground cumin
1/4 ts Ground ginger
1/4 ts Ground allspice
6 c  Chicken broth
3/4 c  Quinoa, rinsed well in a
Fine sieve
Garnish:
Blanched whole almonds,
Toasted with salt and oil,
If desired
Preheat oven to 450 degrees and set oven racks in middle and lower
thirds of oven.

In a large bowl toss tomatoes and eggplant with 1 tablespoon oil and
salt and pepper to taste. In a large shallow baking pan arrange
tomatoes and eggplant in one layer. In bowl, toss bell peppers,
onions, and carrots with 1 tablespoon oil and salt and pepper to
taste. In another large shallow baking pan arrange pepper mixture in
one layer.

Roast vegetables in middle and lower thirds of oven, stirring
occasionally and switching pans halfway through roasting, until
golden brown and tender, about 20 minutes. If desired, peel tomatoes.

Pat lamb dry and season with salt and pepper. While vegetables are
roasting, in a large heavy kettle (about 8 quart capacity) heat 1
tablespoon oil over moderately high heat until hot but not smoking and
brown lamb in 2 batches, transferring with a slotted spoon to a bowl.

Add remaining tablespoon oil to kettle and cook squash, garlic, and
spices over moderate heat, stirring, 2 minutes. Return lamb to kettle
and add roasted vegetables and broth. Bring stew to a boil and
simmer, covered, 1 hour.

Stir in quinoa and simmer, uncovered, stirring occasionally, 30
minutes, or until quinoa is tender. Discard cinnamon sticks and add
water to thin stew if desired. Serve stew garnished with almonds.

Yield: 6 to 8 servings

COOKING LIVE SHOW #CL9046

All recipes courtesy of Gourmet Magazine

