Title: Low-Fat: New Chocolate Decadence
Categories: Tvfn
Yield: 4 servings
5 oz Bittersweet or semisweet
Chocolate, chopped fine
1    Whole egg
1    Egg, separated
1 ts Vanilla extract
1    Egg white
1/8 ts Cream of tartar
1/2 c  Plus 1/2 tablespoon
Unsweetened Dutch Process
Cocoa
2 tb All purpose flour
2/3 c  Plus 1/4 cup sugar
1 1/4 c  (or more) Raspberry Sauce,
Recipe follows
Enlightened Creme Fraiche,
Optional, recipe follows
Equipment: 8 inch round cake pan, 1 1/2 to 2 inches deep (no
springform) Baking pan at least 2 inches deep and large enough to
hold the cake pan

Position the rack in the lower third of the oven and preheat to 350
degrees. Line the bottom of 8 inch round cake pan with a round of
parchment paper and grease pan sides with vegetable oil of butter.
Put a kettle of water on to boil.

Place the chocolate in a large mixing bowl. Combine 1 whole egg and 1
yolk in a small bowl with vanilla. Place the 2 egg whites in a medium
bowl with cream of tartar. Set all 3 bowls aside.

Combine the cocoa, flour and 2/3 cup sugar in a 1-1 1/2 quart
heavy-bottomed saucepan. Whisk in enough of the milk to form a smooth
paste. Mix in the remaining milk. Cook over medium heat, stirring
constantly with a wooden spoon to prevent burning (especially around
the bottom edges of the pot), until mixture begins to simmer. Simmer
very gently, stirring constantly, for 1 1/2 minutes. Pour the hot
mixture immediately over the chopped chocolate. Stir until chocolate
is completely melted and smooth. Whisk in egg and vanilla mixture.
Set aside.

Beat the egg whites and cream of tartar at medium speed until soft
peaks form. Gradually sprinkle in the remaining 1/4 cup of sugar,
beating at high speed until stiff but not dry. Fold a quarter of the
egg whites into the chocolate mixture to lighten it. Fold in
remaining egg whites. Scrape mixture into the cake pan and smooth the
top. Set cake pan in baking pan and place on oven rack. Pour enough
boiling water into the baking pan to come a third to halfway up the
sides of the cake pan.

Bake for exactly 30 minutes. The surface of the cake will spring back
when gently pressed but cake will still be quite gooey inside. Remove
cake pan and water pan from oven. Remove cake pan from water and cool
completely on a rack. Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate
overnight before serving. Refrigerate up to 2 days or freeze up to 2
months.

To serve slide a thin knife around the sides of the pan to release
cake. Place a piece of waxed paper on top of cake. Invert a plate on
top of the wax paper and invert cake onto plate. Remove pan and peel
away paper liner. Turn cake right side up again and remove wax paper.
Cut with a sharp knife dipped in hot water and wiped dry before each
slice. Serve with Raspberry Sauce and Enlightened Creme Fraiche, if
desired.

Yield: 10-12 servings

CHEF DU JOUR ALICE MEDRICH SHOW #DJ9150

