Title: Lychee Sorbet With Fruit Salsa
Categories: Live
Yield: 4 servings
2 c  Water
1 tb Grated fresh gingerroot
1/2 c  Sugar
2 cn Lychees (20 ounces), drained
1/2 c  The syrup reserved
Fruit Salsa:
1    Mango, peeled, seeded, and
Finely chopped (about 3/4
Cup)
3/4 c  Peeled, cored, and finely
Diced fresh pineapple
6    Mint leaves, finely chopped
3/4 ts Coarsely ground black
Peppercorns
1 1/2 c  Chopped, unsweetened
Strawberries (fresh or
Frozen)
To prepare the sorbet: Combine the water, ginger, and sugar in a
medium saucepan and bring to a boil over high heat. Remove from the
heat and strain through a fine sieve with a puree press, discarding
the ginger pulp. Process the lychees and 1/2 cup of their syrup in a
blender or food processor until smooth, about 2 minutes.  Pour
through a sieve set over the ginger water, again pressing with a
puree press.  Discard the pulp. Freeze the lychee sauce in an ice
cream freezer according to the manufacturer's directions.  If you do
not have an ice cream machine, freeze the liquid in a shallow baking
pan until it is almost solid. This will take an hour or two depending
on your freezer. Once the sauce is frozen, remove it from the freezer
and break into small pieces. Beat in the large bowl of an electric
mixer until smooth. Return the mixture to the shallow pan and
refreeze. Repeat the freezing and beating process until you are
satisfied with the consistency of the sorbet.  The more times you
beat, the smoother the texture will be, but it must be refrozen each
time.  One short beating will produce a granita.  Several beatings
will result in a richer, smoother texture. When you are satisfied
with the texture, transfer the sorbet to a covered storage container
and let it ripen in the freezer for at least 30 minutes before
serving. To prepare the salsa: This salsa should be made as close to
serving time as possible in order to be at its best. Toss the
prepared mango, pineapple, mint, pepper, and strawberries in a small
bowl and set aside until ready to serve.  If you are using frozen
strawberries, chop and add them at the last minute, still partially
frozen, so they don't become limp. To serve: Place a scoop of the
sorbet on a chilled dessert plate.  Spoon 1/3 cup of the fruit salsa
alongside and garnish with a crisp ginger cookie.

Yield: 6 servings

COOKING LIVE SHOW #CL8980

(Recipes courtesy of Graham Kerr, The Gathering Place)

