Title: Mamma Salerno's Panzarotti (Potato Croquettes)
Categories: Tvfn
Yield: 4 servings
Sauce--
1/4 c  Extra virgin olive oil
2 tb Chopped garlic
1    Shallot, minced
1 ts Crushed red pepper flakes
3    Tomatoes, peeled, seeded and
Chopped
Croquettes:
4 lg Idaho potatoes, peeled
3    Egg yolks
1/2 c  Grated Parmesan cheese
1 ts Salt
1 ts Pepper
1/4 lb Mozzarella cheese, cut into
1/4    -inch dice
3    Egg whites, slightly beaten
Until frothy
1 1/2 c  Bread crumbs
Vegetable oil for frying
To make the sauce: Heat the olive oil in a small pan over medium
heat. Add the garlic and saute until beige. Add the shallot and cook
until translucent and the garlic is a light golden color. (Don't let
the garlic burn or it will taste bitter.) Add the pepper flakes and
saute for about 10 seconds more. Add the tomatoes and simmer for 15
to 20 minutes.

To make the croquettes: Preheat the oven to 200 degrees F.

In a saucepan, boil the potatoes until tender. Drain the potatoes,
place on a sheet pan, and allow to dry in the oven for about 5 to 10
minutes. Pass the potatoes through a food mill or ricer (passatutto)
and let them cool in a bowl. Stir in the egg yolks and the Parmesan
cheese. Season with the salt and pepper.

Place 2 tablespoons of the potato mixture in the palm of your hand
and make a small ball. Make an indentation in the center with your
thumb. Place 3 cubes of the mozzarella in the center and bring up the
sides of the potato mixture to cover it. Pinch it well and then roll
it between the palms of your hands until it forms a stick about 2 1/2
inches long. Repeat the process. Once you have all the potato sticks
done, roll them in the egg whites, then in the bread crumbs. Remove
excess crumbs and again roll them lightly between the palms of your
hands to set the bread crumbs.

Pour vegetable oil to a depth of 2 inches into a skillet and heat
until a drop of batter dropped into the oil rises right away. Deep
fry the croquettes until golden brown, drain on paper towels, and
serve immediately with the sauce on the side for dipping.

Yield: 8 servings as an appetizer or snack

CHEF DU JOUR DAVID RUGGERIO SHOW #DJ9449 (courtesy David Ruggerio,
"Little Italy Cookbook")

