Title: Mole Negro Ozaqueno (Oaxacan Black Mole)
Categories: Emeril
Yield: 4 servings
For the chicken-
2 lg Chickens (about 3 1/2 pounds
Each), each chicken cut into
8    Pieces
2 sm Heads of garlic, scored
Around the middle
2 sm White onions, roughly
Sliced
6    Fresh mint sprigs
Sea salt to taste
The Sauce-
1/4 lb Chilhuacles negros or
Guajillos
2 oz Chiles pasillas (Mexican,
Not Oaxacan)
2 oz Chiles mulatos
1/2 lb (about 1 large) tomatoes,
Broiled
1 c  Water
3    Whole cloves
3    Whole allspice
6    Fresh thyme sprigs, leaves
Only
6    Fresh marjoram sprigs,
Leaves only
1 tb Mexican oregano
3/4 c  Melted lard or safflower
Oil
1/4 c  Sesame seeds
1/4 c  Shelled peanuts
10    Unskinned almonds
1/4 c  Raisins
1 sm Onion, thickly sliced
12 sm Garlic cloves, peeled
1    Very thick 3-inch cinnamon
Stick, slivered
1    Ripe plantain, skinned and
Cut into thick slices
2    Crisp-fried corn tortillas
3    Thick slices dried French
Bread
1    (2-ounce) tablet Mexican
Drinking chocolate
Sea salt to taste
Put the chicken into a saucepan with the garlic, onions, and mint.
Add the water to cover and salt to taste. Bring to a simmer, cover
the pan, and continue simmering until the chicken is just tender,
about 35 minutes. Strain, reserving the broth.

Remove the stems from the dried chiles. Slit them open, and remove
seeds and veins, reserving the seeds. Toast the chiles for about 50
seconds on each side; if you're using guajillos, toast them longer,
until they are almost charred, about 2 minutes.

Rinse the chiles in cold water, cover with hot water, and leave to
soak for about 30 minutes.

Put the reserved chile seeds into an ungreased frying pan and toast
over fairly high heat, shaking them around from time to time so that
they brown evenly. Then raise the heat and char until black. Cover
with cold water and set aside to soak for about 5 minutes. Strain and
put into a blender jar. Add the broiled tomatoes, unpeeled, to the
blender jar along with the water, cloves, allspice, thyme, marjoram,
and oregano.

Heat some of the lard in a small frying pan and fry the sesame seed
until a deep golden color, a few seconds. Strain, putting the fat
back into the pan and the seeds into the blender jar, and blend as
smooth as possible. Fry the rest of the ingredients, except the
chiles and chocolate, one by one, strain, and put into the blender
jar, blending after each addition and adding water or broth as
necessary to release the blades.

Heat 1/4 cup of the lard in the heavy pan in which you are going to
cook the mole, add the blended mixture, and fry over medium heat,
stirring and scraping the bottom of the pan from time to time, for
about 15 minutes. Meanwhile, put a few of the chiles and about 2 cups
of the water in which they were soaking into the blender jar and
blend until smooth. When you have blended all the chiles, add them to
the fried ingredients together with the chocolate and cook for 5
minutes longer.

Add about 4 cups of the chicken broth and continue cooking for 35
minutes. Skim the fat that forms on the top if you are going to make
tamales or mole. It is added to color and flavor the masa. Add more
broth if necessary, the mole should just coat the back of a wooden
spoon. Add the chicken and salt to taste; cook for 10 minutes longer.

Yield: 10 to 12 servings

EMERIL LIVE SHOW # EMIB34 FOOD OF OAXACAN, MEXICO

