Title: Mushroom Salad, With Pan Fried Duck Liver, & Beluga Cavia
Categories: Tvfn
Yield: 4 servings
4    Artichokes (large)
Rock salt to taste
2    Lemons
Hazelnut Vinaigrette:
1 tb Sherry vinegar
4 tb Hazelnut olive oil
1 ts Chives, finely chopped
1    Screw top jar (optional)
Salt and pepper to taste
Beluga Caviar Vinaigrette:
2 ts Beluga Caviar
2 ts Truffle juice
1 tb Olive oil
1 ts Chives, finely chopped
For the Mushroom Leek
Salad:
2 c  Leeks
2 c  Mushrooms, sliced into
Quarters (Kona Oyster,
Portobello, shittake)
2 tb Hazelnut oil
Garnish:
4 sl Sonoma Duck Liver (1 ounce
Each)
4    Sprigs chervil
For Artichoke: Snap the stem from the bottom of artichoke. Remove the
leaves with a paring knife by circulating around the artichoke to
have a nice half moon shape. Re-trim the center tip, scoop out the
center of each artichoke heart, and scoop out the fibrous choke.
Place artichoke in cold lemon water, use the juice of one lemon,
which will prevent discoloring.

Bring a pot of water to a boil with the juice of one lemon and
seasoned with rock salt. Rinse artichokes with clean cold water and
cook for about 20 minutes until done in the boiling water. Set aside
so artichoke can cool in liquid.

Hazelnut Vinaigrette: Combine sherry vinegar, hazelnut olive oil,
salt and pepper in a screw top jar, cover tightly and shake
vigorously for 20 seconds.

Beluga Caviar Vinaigrette: In a small bowl combine the caviar, truffle
juice, olive oil and chives together and mix gently, set aside.

Mushroom and Leek Salad: Clean the leeks and cut into 3-inch long
ribbons. Cook the leeks in a pot of salted boiling water. When
cooked, chill in ice water to keep color bright.

Strain and toss with a few teaspoons of the Beluga caviar
vinaigrette, set aside. Saute the mixed mushrooms in a hot pan with
hazelnut oil, season to taste with hazelnut vinaigrette. Set aside.

On 4-inch plates, place a 4-inch round ring in the center. Fill with
the leek salad and spread outward around side of ring. Place the
artichokes, tossed in the hazelnut vinaigrette in the center of the
top of the leeks. Add the mushrooms salad on top of the artichokes.
Cook the duck liver in a frying pan for a few minutes and then place
the duck liver on the mushrooms. Drizzle some Beluga Caviar
vinaigrette around the salad. Serve immediately.

Yield: 4 servings

Recipes from Phillipe Padovani, Executive Chef, Manele Bay Hotel

