Title: My Favorite Brisket
Categories: Tvfn
Yield: 4 servings
2 ts Salt
Freshly ground pepper to
Taste
1    5-pound brisket of beef,
Shoulder roast of beef,
Chuck roast or end of
Steak
1    Garlic clove, peeled
2 tb Vegetable oil
3    Onions, peeled and diced
1    10-ounce can of tomatoes
2 c  Red wine
2    Celery stalks with leaves,
Chopped
1    Bay leaf
1    Sprig fresh thyme
1    Sprig fresh rosemary
1/4 c  Chopped parsley
6    To 8 carrots, peeled and
Sliced on the diagonal
Preheat oven to 325 degrees.

Sprinkle the salt and pepper over the brisket and rub with garlic.
Sear the brisket in the oil and then place, fat side up, on top of
the onions in a large casserole. Cover with the tomatoes, red wine,
celery, bay leaf, thyme, and rosemary. Cover and bake in preheated
oven for about 3 hours, basting often with pan juices. Add the
parsley and carrots and bake, uncovered, for 30 minutes more or until
the carrots are cooked. To test for doneness, stick a fork in the
flat (thinner or leaner end of the brisket). When there is a light
pull on the fork as it is removed from the meat, it is "fork tender."

This dish is best prepared in advance and refrigerated so that the
fat can be easily skimmed from the surface of the gravy. Trim off all
the visible fat from the cold brisket. Then place the brisket, on
what was the fat side down, on a cutting board. Look for the grain
which is the muscle lines of the brisket. With a very sharp knife,
cut across the grain.

When ready to serve, reheat the gravy. Put the sliced brisket in a
roasting pan. Pour the hot gravy on the meat, cover, and reheat in a
preheated 350 degree oven for 45 minutes. Some people like to strain
the gravy, but I prefer to keep the onions because they are so
delicious. Serve with farfel (boiled egg barley noodles), noodle
kugel or potato pancakes. A colorful winter salad goes well with this.

(Courtesy Joan Nathan)

Yield: 8 to 10 servings

ENTERTAINING AT HOME WITH DEAN FEARING SHOW #HE1A34 CHANUKAH DINNER

