Title: Old-Fashioned Oatmeal Bread
Categories: Live
Yield: 4 servings
1 c  Rolled oats (regular
Oatmeal)
1 c  Boiling water
Dough:
1/2 c  Warm water, about 110
Degrees
2 1/2 ts (1 envelope) active dry
Yeast
2 1/2 c  Unbleached, all-purpose
Flour
2 tb Light brown sugar
1 ts Salt
2 tb Butter
One 8 1/2 by 4 1/2 by 2
3/4    -inch loaf pan, buttered
Place oatmeal in a heat-proof bowl and pour boiling water over it.
Stir once to mix, then set aside until cooled to room temperature. To
make the dough place 1/2 cup water in a small bowl and whisk in
yeast. Combine flour, brown sugar and salt in work bowl of food
processor fitted with metal blade. Pulse until mixed. Add butter and
continue to pulse until mixture is a fine powder with no visible
pieces of butter. Remove metal blade and fit plastic blade. Add
cooled oatmeal mixture and yeast mixture and pulse until the mixture
forms a ball. Allow the machine to run continuously for 15 seconds.

To mix dough in a heavy-duty mixer, combine flour, brown sugar and
salt in mixer bowl and stir to mix. Cut butter into 12 pieces, and
add to the flour along with the oatmeal and yeast mixtures; mix on
low speed with dough hook until dough is smooth and elastic, about 5
minutes.

To mix the dough by hand, stir together flour, brown sugar and salt
in a mixing bowl. Rub butter in by hand, then add oatmeal mixture and
yeast mixture. Stir to form a rough dough, then turn out onto a
lightly floured work surface and knead until smooth and elastic,
about 5 minutes. Place dough in a buttered bowl and turn to coat all
sides. Cover bowl with plastic wrap and allow dough to rise until
doubled in bulk, about 1 hour.

Turn risen dough out onto a floured work surface (you may need the
help of a scraper). Press dough with palms of hands to deflate. To
form loaf, stretch dough into a rough rectangle, then fold in short
ends until dough is approximately the length of the pan. Then fold
far long edge down to middle. Fold remaining long edge over and
compress to form a tight cylinder. Place the loaf in the pan, seam
side down. Cover the pan with plastic wrap and allow dough to rise
until doubled, about 1 hour. While the loaf is rising, preheat oven
to 375 degrees and set a rack at the middle level.

When the loaf is completely risen, place in oven and immediately lower
temperature to 350 degrees. Bake about 30 to 40 minutes, until well
risen and firm to the touch. The internal temperature of the bread
with be about 210 degrees when it is done. Unmold the loaf to a rack
to cool.

Variations:

OATMEAL RAISIN BREAD: Knead in 1 cup raisins by hand after mixing
dough.

COOKING LIVE SHOW #CL9040

All recipes courtesy of Nick Malgieri

Oatmeal:

