Title: Pan Roasted Chicken with Oyster Dressing
Categories: Emeril
Yield: 4 servings
2    Dozen shucked oysters, with
Their liquid
2 tb Olive oil
2 c  Chopped onions
1 c  Chopped bell peppers
1 c  Chopped celery
Salt and cayenne pepper
3    Bay leaves
1 tb Minced garlic
1/4 c  Finely chopped parsley
ds Worcestershire sauce
1 c  Water
1/4 c  Chopped green onions
4 c  Cubed white bread
1/3 c  Grated Parmigiano-Reggiano
Cheese
1 tb Butter
Freshly ground black pepper
4    Garlic cloves, sliced
4    Chicken breast, halved,
Breast bone removed, wings
Attached (about 8
oz Each)
1 tb Fresh lemon juice
1 tb Fresh rosemary leaves
1 c  Shallot reduction (veal
Stock based), warm
Fresh rosemary sprigs
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees. Butter a 9 by 11-inch baking pan.
Drain the oysters, reserving 2 cups of the liquor and set aside. In a
large saute pan, heat the olive oil. When the oil is hot, saute the
onions, bell peppers and celery. Season with salt and cayenne. Saute
the vegetables until they are wilted, about 5 minutes. Add the bay
leaves, garlic, parsley and Worcestershire. Saute for 1 minute. Add
the water and cook for 2 to 3 minutes. Add the green onions, the
oyster liquor, and the bread. Mix until the mixture is incorporated.
Remove from the heat. Turn the bread mixture into a mixing bowl and
stir in the oysters and cheese. Pour the mixture into the prepared
pan. Bake for 1 hour, or until bubbly and golden brown. Cool the
mixture completely. Increase the oven temperature to 400 degrees.
Butter an 8 by 11 1/2 by 2-inch baking dish. Season the chicken with
salt and black pepper. Divide the garlic slices into 4 equal
portions. Lay the breast, skin side down, in the pan and place the
garlic in the center of each breast. Put 1/4 cup of the dressing on
each breast, then carefully fold together, bringing the bottom end of
the breast up to the wing section. Drizzle with the lemon juice and
sprinkle with the rosemary leaves. Bake for 45 minutes. Remove the
pan from the oven. Remove the chicken from the pan and set aside.
Place the pan on the stove and deglaze with the shallot reduction.
Season the sauce with salt and pepper. Lay the chicken on a platter
and spoon the reduction sauce over the top. Garnish with the fresh
rosemary sprigs, green onions, and peppers.

Yield: 4 servings

EMERIL LIVE SHOW #EMIA42

