Title: Panneed Veal With Cheese And Crab Ravioli And Red Pepper
Categories: Emeril
Yield: 4 servings
1/2 lb Lump crab meat, picked over
For shells and cartilage
2 tb Minced red peppers
2 tb Minced red onions
1 c  Grated Parmigiano-Reggiano
Cheese
1 tb Chopped basil
2 tb Heavy cream
2 tb Bread crumbs
1    Sheet of fresh pasta, (11x14
Inches), cut into 4x4
Squares, 8 squares
Total
2 tb Olive oil
3    Red peppers, chopped
1    Jalapeno, chopped
1/2    Chopped white onion
1 ts Minced garlic
2 oz White wine
1 1/2 qt Heavy cream
2 tb Butter
Salt and pepper
8    (3 ounce) veal top round,
Pounded out thin
Essence
1 c  Flour
2    Eggs, slightly beaten with 2
TB milk
1 1/2 c  Brioche bread crumbs
5    Blanched asparagus spears,
2 tb Chiffonade basil
1/4 c  Grated Parmigiano-Reggiano
Cheese
Heat a pot of salt water for poaching. For the ravioli: In a mixing
bowl, combine crab, red peppers, onions, cheese, 1 tablespoon basil, 2
tablespoons cream and bread crumbs. Season with salt and pepper. Fill
each ravioli with 1/2 cup of the filling. Seal each ravioli with some
of the egg wash, using a pastry brush.

For the sauce: In a sauce pan, heat the olive oil. Saute the peppers,
jalapeno, onions and garlic for 2 minutes. Season with salt and
pepper. Stir in the wine and cream. Bring up to a boil, reduce to a
simmer. Simmer the sauce until the cream has reduced by half, about
4-5 minutes. Remove from the heat. With a hand-held blender, puree
the sauce until smooth. Place back on the stove and mount in the
butter. Season with salt and pepper. To finish the pasta: drop the
ravioli in boiling salted and oiled water for 3-4 minutes or until
the pasta is tender.

For the veal: In a saute pan, heat some olive oil. Season the veal
with Essence, and season the flour and bread crumbs with Essence.
Dredge the veal in the flour. Dip each piece in the egg wash,
removing any excess. Dredge the veal in the bread crumbs. Fry the
veal for 3 minutes on each side or until golden. Remove from the pan
and place on a paper-lined plate. Season with Essence. Remove the
pasta from the water and drain. Season with olive oil, salt and
pepper. Spoon the sauce in the center of platter. Lay the ravioli in
the center of sauce. Place the veal against the ravioli Garnish with
the asparagus spears, basil and cheese.

Yield: 4 servings

ESSENCE OF EMERIL SHOW#EE2350

