Title: Peach Pie with Almond Crumble Topping
Categories: Live
Yield: 4 servings
Sweet dough for 1 crust pie
Topping:
1 c  All-purpose bleached flour
3 tb Sugar
1/4 ts Freshly grated nutmeg
1/2 c  Sliced almonds
6 tb Unsalted butter, melted
Filling:
3 lb Firm, ripe, yellow fleshed
Free stone peaches, about 8
Or 9 medium
Peaches
1/2 c  Sugar
2 tb All-purpose bleached flour
1/2 ts Almond extract
1/8 ts Freshly grated nutmeg
2 tb Cold unsalted butter
To make topping: Combine flour, sugar and nutmeg in a mixing bowl;
stir well to mix and stir in sliced almonds. Stir in butter evenly.
Set aside for 5 minutes, then, using your fingertips, break the
mixture into 1/4 to 1/2-inch crumbs. Set aside again while you
prepare the filling.

Preheat oven to 400 degrees and set racks at middle level. Roll out
bottom crust and arrange in 9-inch Pyrex plate.

To make filling: Peel the peaches by cutting a cross in the blossom
end of each and dropping them three at a time into a pan of boiling
water. Remove after 20 or 30 seconds with a slotted spoon or skimmer
and drop them into a bowl of ice water. If the peaches are ripe, the
skin will slip off easily. If it does not, remove the skin with a
sharp stainless steel paring knife. (If you peel it with a knife,
include an extra peach for what you have peeled away.) Hold each
peeled peach gently in your left hand over a mixing bowl (if you are
left handed reverse.) With a stainless steel paring knife make a cut
through to the pit, from stem to blossom end. Make another cut about
3/4-inch to the right of the first one along the outside of the
peach. Angle the knife blade back so the cuts meet at the pit. Twist
the knife blade upward slightly as a wedge of peach will fall into
the bowl. Continue in the same manner around the peach, cutting it
into 8 to 10 wedges. Discard the pit and repeat with remaining
peaches. Add remaining ingredients, except the butter, to the peaches
and stir gently with a rubber spatula to combine. Pour filling into
the prepared pastry shell and smooth. Dot with the butter.

Scatter the crumb topping evenly over the filling. Place pie on the
bottom rack of the oven and bake for 15 minutes. Lower the
temperature to 350 degrees and move pie to the middle rack. Bake
another 30 minutes, or until the crust and crumble are a deep golden
and the juices are just beginning to bubble up. Cool the pie on a
rack and serve warm or room temperature.

COOKING LIVE SHOW #CL8915

Guest host: Nick Malgieri All recipes courtesy of Nick Malgieri

