Title: Pistachio Marzipan Truffles
Categories: Live
Yield: 4 servings
1/3 c  Heavy whipping cream
6 oz Bittersweet chocolate,
Melted
1 ts Almond extract
1 tb Butter
1 tb Light corn syrup
Pistachio marzipan:
8 oz (about 2 cups) blanched
Pistachios
4 oz Almond paste
1/4 c  Confectioners' sugar
2 tb Light corn syrup
Enrobing:
16 oz Semisweet or milk chocolate
16 oz Blanched pistachios,
Chopped
To make the centers, bring the cream to a boil and remove from heat.
Whisk cream into chocolate. Whisk smooth, then whisk in extract,
butter and corn syrup. Cool the mixture to 80 degrees or until
thickened.

To blanch the pistachios, remove the shells, place pistachios in a
saucepan and cover with cold water. Bring to a boil and drain
immediately. Place hot pistachios on a towel, fold the towel over to
cover the pistachios, and rub to loosen the skins. Go over the
pistachios one by one to separate the kernels from the skins.

To make the pistachio marzipan, place the blanched pistachios, still
warm, in the bowl of a food processor. Process for a long time,
scraping down frequently, until they form a paste. Pulse in the
almond paste, then the confectioners' sugar. Add corn syrup as
necessary, keeping the marzipan fairly soft. Remove from processor
and knead smooth. Divide the marzipan into three pieces and roll each
into a cylinder 12-inches long. Flatten ropes and roll them 2-inches
wide.

Quickly beat center mixture to lighten and then spoon into a 1/2-inch
plain tube (Ateco #6 or #806). Pipe down the center of each strip of
marzipan. Bring the long sides of each piece of marzipan up around
the ganache and press marzipan together along the center top of the
ganache, enclosing it. Don't worry if the marzipan doesn't cover
perfectly or completely. Cut each roll into 3/4-inch lengths. Chill
if necessary, then roll pieces into balls between the palms of your
hands.

Melt and temper the chocolate, and coat the truffles, then roll them
in a pan of the chopped pistachios. Remove to a paper-lined pan and
chill to set coating.

Storage: Place truffles in a tin or plastic container with a
tight-fitting cover and keep at cool room temperature for up to a
week.

COOKING LIVE SHOW #CL9095

All recipes courtesy of Nick Malgieri

Center mixture:

