Title: Portobello Sandwich With Mashed Root Vegetables And A Mus
Categories: Emeril
Yield: 4 servings
1    Carrot, peeled and diced
1    Parsnip, peeled and diced
1 sm Sweet potato, peeled and
Diced
2 tb Olive oil
1 1/2 lb Idaho potatoes, peeled and
Diced
Salt
Freshly ground white pepper
1/2 c  Heavy cream
4 tb Butter
8    Fresh portobello mushrooms,
Stemmed and cleaned
3 tb Olive oil
1/2 c  Minced yellow onions
4 c  Sliced assorted Exotic
Mushrooms, such as shiitakes
Oyster,
Chantrelles, etc.
1 tb Chopped garlic
1 tb Finely chopped fresh parsley
Leaves
2 c  Veal reduction
4 oz Shaved Parmigiano-Reggiano
Cheese
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F. Preheat the grill. Toss the
carrots, parsnips, and sweet potatoes with 1 tablespoon olive oil.
Season with salt and pepper. Place the vegetables on a baking sheet
and roast until tender, about 40 minutes. Place the potatoes in a
saucepan and cover with water. Season with salt. Bring the liquid to
a boil and reduce to a simmer. Cook until the potatoes are fork
tender, about 8 to 10 minutes. Drain the potatoes and place back in
the saucepan. Add the roasted vegetables to the potatoes. Using a
hand masher, mash the potatoes and roasted vegetables together.
Season with salt and pepper. Add the cream and 2 tablespoons of the
butter. Mix well. Season with salt and pepper. Season the portobellos
with the remaining olive oil, salt and pepper. Grill for 3 to 4
minutes on each side. Remove from the grill and set four of the
mushrooms aside. Spoon a quarter of the potatoes in the cap of the
remaining mushrooms. Spread the potatoes evenly. Place the remaining
caps on top of the potatoes, forming a sandwich. Place the portobello
sandwiches on a baking sheet and cook for about 6 minutes. In a large
saute pan, heat the remaining olive oil. Add the onions. Season with
salt and pepper. Saute for 2 minutes. Add the mushrooms and garlic.
Season with salt and pepper. Saute for 3 to 4 minutes. Add the
parsley and veal reduction. Bring the liquid to a boil and reduce to
a simmer. Cook for 2 minutes. Remove from the heat and stir in the
remaining butter. To assemble, spoon the mushroom stew in the center
of each plate. Place the portobello sandwich in the center of the
stew. Garnish with the cheese. Yield: 4 servings

EMERIL LIVE SHOW #EMIB22

