Title: Potato Crusted Scallops with Fondue Piquante
Categories: Emeril
Yield: 4 servings
5 tb Olive oil
3 tb Chopped onions
3 tb Chopped green bell peppers
2 tb Chopped celery
1 tb Seeded and minced jalapeno
Peppers
1 tb Chopped garlic
1 tb Chopped fresh thyme
1 tb Chopped fresh oregano
Salt and cayenne
1 c  Peeled, seeded, and chopped
Tomatoes
3    Bay leaves
2 c  Chicken stock
1/4 c  Heavy cream
2    White potatoes, peeled and
Cut in half
White pepper
8    Sea scallops
Essence
4 ts Dijon mustard
Long chives
In a nonreactive saucepan, heat 2 tablespoons of the olive oil. When
the oil is hot, add the onions peppers, celery, jalapenos, garlic,
thyme, and oregano. Season with salt and cayenne. Saute for 2
minutes. Add the tomatoes, bay leaves and stock. Bring the liquid up
to a boil and reduce to a simmer. Cook the sauce for 20 minutes.
Remove the sauce from the heat. Using a hand-held blender, puree the
sauce until smooth. Add the heavy cream and puree until incorporated.
Reseason the sauce if needed. Using the Suzy Wong Threader, thread
the potatoes through the machine, forming long curls of the potato.
Season the potatoes with salt and pepper. Season the scallops with
Essence. Rub each scallop with 1/2 teaspoon of the Dijon mustard.
Fold four linen cloths in half. Divide the threaded potatoes between
the four cloths. Divide the individual piles of potatoes in half. So
you should have eight piles of threaded potatoes divided between four
linen cloths. Place the scallops in the center of the potato piles.
Wrap each scallop with the potatoes, covering the scallops
completely. Tightly wrap the potato wrapped scallops up in the linen
cloth. This will help the potatoes from discoloring too much. In a
large saute pan, heat the remaining olive oil. When the oil is hot,
pan-fry the potatoes for 3 minutes on each side or until the potatoes
are golden brown. Remove the potatoes from the pan and drain on a
paper-lined plate. Season with salt and pepper. To assemble, spoon a
small pool of the sauce in the center each plate. Lay two potato
crusted scallops in the center of the sauce. Garnish with long chives.

Yield: 4 servings

EMERIL LIVE SHOW #EMIA16

