Title: Potato And Mushroom Lasagna
Categories: Emeril
Yield: 4 servings
2 tb Olive oil
1 lg Onion, minced
2 oz Prosciutto di Parma, finely
Chopped
2 tb Minced shallots
1/2 c  Finely chopped parsley
1 lb Assorted wild and exotic
Mushrooms (chantrelles,
Oysters, shiitaki,
Lobster, etc.
2 tb Minced garlic
2 tb Chopped basil
1 tb Chopped fresh oregano
2/3 c  Dry white wine
1 1/2    To 2 pounds canned crushed
Tomatoes
2 c  (16 ounces) Fresh Ricotta
Cheese
1    Egg
1/2 lb Grated Parmigiano-Reggiano
Cheese
1/2 lb Grated Mozzarella cheese
Salt and pepper
2 lb Assorted potatoes (such as
Idaho potatoes, new potatoes
Sweet
Potatoes etc.) peeled and
Thinly sliced
Lengthwise
1/2 c  Heavy cream plus 1/4 cup
Milk
Fried basil leaves
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Lightly oil a 13 by 9-inch
rectangular baking dish. In a large saute pan, heat the olive oil.
When the oil is hot, saute the onions and prosciutto for about 4
minutes or until the onions are wilted and slightly caramelized. Stir
in the 1/2 cup parsley, shallots and mushrooms. Saute for 10 minutes
or until the mushrooms are golden brown. Season with salt and pepper.
Stir in the garlic, basil and oregano. Strain the mushrooms and
reserve the liquid. Place the liquid back into the pan and reduce
until the liquid forms a glaze, about 5 minutes. Scraping the sides
occasionally to loosen any particles. Add the wine and follow the
same process. Add the tomatoes and continue to cook for 10 minutes.
Season with salt and pepper. Add the mushroom mixture to the sauce.
In a mixing bowl, combine the Ricotta cheese, egg, remaining parsley,
1/2 cup grated Parmigiano-Reggiano cheese, and Mozzarella cheese.
Season with salt and pepper. Season the potatoes with salt and
pepper. To assemble, spoon a small amount of the sauce on the bottom
of the baking dish. Sprinkle with Parmesan cheese. Place a layer of
the potatoes on top of the sauce. Spread the cheese over the
potatoes. Repeat layering until all the ingredients are used. Mix the
cream with any remaining cheese. Season with salt and pepper. Pour
over the top of the lasagna. Cover the lasagna. Bake for 40 minutes
covered and 10 to 15 minutes uncovered, or until the lasagna is
golden brown and set. Remove the lasagna from the oven and allow to
rest for 10 minutes before slicing. Place a portion of the lasagna in
the center of the plate. Garnish with grated cheese and fried basil
leaves.

Yield: 9 servings

EMERIL LIVE SHOW #EMIB25

