Title: Potstickers
Categories: Taste
Yield: 4 servings
1/2 lb Napa cabbage
2 ts Kosher salt
3/4 lb Coarsely-ground pork
1 tb Finely-minced fresh ginger
1 tb Minced garlic
1/3 c  Coarsely-chopped scallions
1 tb Soy sauce
1 tb Chinese rice wine
1 tb Toasted sesame oil
1/4 ts Freshly-ground pepper
24    Round wonton wrappers
Up to 1/4 cup oil, for
Pan-frying
Up to 2 cups stock
Sauce:
1/3 c  Soy sauce
3 tb White vinegar
1 tb Toasted sesame oil
1 ts Chinese chili sauce
1/3 ts Sugar
2 tb Thinly-sliced scallions
Make filling: Chop cabbage to small pieces, sprinkle with 1 teaspoon
of salt and toss well. Let stand 10 minutes, drain, then squeeze
firmly to wring out excess moisture. In a large mixing bowl scatter
cabbage and add pork. Sprinkle remaining filling ingredients on top.
Using chopsticks, stir briskly in one direction until well-blended.
Throw mixture against inside of bowl 5 to 6 times to compact it.
Press plastic wrap on surface of filling and set aside 30 minutes at
room temperature, or refrigerate up to 24 hours for flavor to
develop. Bring to room temperature before using .

Fill one wrapper at a time, keeping remaining covered. Heap 1 level
tablespoon filling off-center in wrapper and shape into a half-moon,
about 2 inches. Run a moist finger lightly around edge of wrapper.
Pleat and press dumpling closed. Transfer dumplings as they are made
to a lightly-floured baking sheet and keep them covered with a towel
to prevent drying.

Make sauce: About 20 minutes before serving, mix dipping sauce
ingredients and season to taste.

Heat a heavy 12-inch cast-iron skillet with a tight-fitting cover
over high heat. When very hot, add enough oil to coat bottom with a
scant 1/4-inch, swirl skillet to coat bottom and sides, and reduce
heat to medium. When oil is hot, pick up dumplings by their tops and
quickly arrange them, smooth side down, in concentric rings starting
from outside of pan and working into center. You will be able to cook
about half of dumplings at a time. Dumplings should hug each other
tightly in a pretty spiral; they will stick together. Adjust heat so
they sizzle mildly. When all dumplings are in place, raise heat to
brown bottoms. Check frequently, and when bottoms are browned, add
enough stock to come halfway up sides of dumplings. Adjust heat to
simmering and cover. After about 7 minutes, check to see if almost
all stock has been absorbed. Check bottoms of dumplings -- they
should be crisp enough to "clink" against a fingernail. If needed,
add a little more oil down side of pan, swirl to distribute under
dumplings and continue frying until crisp.

Loosen dumplings from bottom with a spatula and invert them onto a
warmed serving platter, browned bottoms up -- they should cling in a
spiral. Spoon dumpling sauce into individual saucers or dipping bowls
and serve immediately. Do this in two pans at once, or repeat to cook
remaining potstickers.

Yield: 6 servings, 24 dumplings

TASTE SHOW #TS4683

Filling:

