Title: Queen Of Sheba
Categories: Tvfn
Yield: 4 servings
6 oz Bittersweet or semi-sweet
Chocolate, cut into bits
6 oz Sweet butter, cut into
Pieces
3 tb Brandy
1/8 ts Almond extract
4 lg Eggs, separated
3/4 c  Sugar
1/2 c  (2 ounces) ground blanched
Almonds
1/4 c  (1-ounce) flour
1/8 ts Cream of tartar
Bittersweet Chocolate Glaze,
Recipe follows
1 oz White and/or milk chocolate
(optional) for marbling the
Glaze
1/2 c  Sliced toasted almonds
Special Equipment:
8    Inch corregated cake circle
Preheat oven to 375 degrees. Line the bottom of 8x3-inch springform
pan with waxed or parchment paper. Melt chocolate and butter in a
small bowl placed in a barely simmering waterbath, stirring
occasionally until melted and smooth. Remove from heat. Or microwave
on medium (50 percent) power for about 2 minutes. Stir until smooth
and completely melted. Stir in brandy and almond extract. Set aside.

In a bowl, whisk egg yolks with 1/2 cup of sugar until pale and
thick. Stir in chocolate mixture. Set aside.

In a clean, dry mixer bowl, beat egg whites and cream of tartar at
medium speed until soft peaks are formed. Gradually sprinkle in the
remaining 1/4 cup sugar, beating at high speed until stiff but not
dry. Set aside just long enough to stir the warm chocolate mixture,
nuts and flour, into the reserved egg yolk mixture. Finally, fold
about one-fourth of whites into the batter to lighten it. Fold in the
remaining whites. Turn the batter into the prepared pan and bake 40
to 45 minutes, or until a toothpick or wooden skewer plunged into the
center of the torte shows moist crumbs. Cool completely in the pan on
a rack.

Torte will rise like a souffle during baking, then fall in the center
as it cools, leaving a faintly crusty higher rim around the edges.
Level the torte before removing it from the pan, as follows: Run a
small metal spatula or knife between the edges of the torte and the
sides of the pan to release it. Press the raised edges of the torte
down with your fingers until it is level with the center. Place
cardboard cake circle on the torte. Release the sides of the pan and
invert the torte so that the bottom becomes the top, then remove the
pan bottom and paper liner. If the torte is still uneven or appears
slightly sunken in the center, level it again by pressing the top
firmly with the bottom of the empty cake pan. Wrap well and store at
room temperature up to 3 days, or freeze for up to 3 months. Bring to
room temperature before serving, glazing, or decorating.

Glaze with Bittersweet Chocolate Glaze, plain or marbled and sliced
toasted almonds. Store and serve at room temperature.

Yield: 10-12 servings

CHEF DU JOUR ALICE MEDRICH SHOW #DJ9151

