Title: Raw Salmon Marinated In Amontillado Sherry
Categories: Try it
Yield: 8 servings
MMMMM-----------------------TASTE #TS4766----------------------------
2 lb Thick salmon fillet,
Well-chilled
3 tb Medium-dry Amontillado
Sherry
4 tb Coarse salt
4 ts Sugar
1 ts Freshly-ground black pepper
4 c  Fresh tarragon leaves
64    Very thin asparagus spears,
Ends peeled
MMMMM---------------------AMONTILLADO SAUCE--------------------------
3/4 c  Amontillado sherry
1/2 c  Mayonnaise
2 tb Dijon mustard
1/4 c  Walnut oil
1/2 c  Neutral-flavored vegetable
Oil, such as canola or
Sunflower
Place salmon, skin-side down in a glass baking dish. Rub with sherry.
In a mortar grind together salt, sugar and pepper lightly with a
pestle. Coat flesh side of salmon with salt mixture. Strew tarragon
over salmon, distributin it evenly. Top with another glass dish and
weight it with cans. Refrigerate for 48 hours, basting a few times
with accumulated liquid.

Cook asparagus in boiling, salted water until just tender, 2 to 3
minutes. Refresh under cold water, then pat dry. Set aside at room
temperature.

Prepare sauce: In a small saucepan bring sherry to a boil and reduce
it by one-third. Let cool slightly, then pour into workbowl of a food
processor with mayonnaise and mustard. Process for 5 seconds. Combine
walnut and vegetabl oils and, with the motor running, slowly begin to
add to sherry mixture drop by drop. After 1 tablespoon of oil has
been absorbed, you can begin to pour it slowly in a thin stream.
Process to a medium consistency. Season to taste with salt and pepper
and set aside at room temperature.

Remove tarragon from salmon and wash off brine under cold water. With
a very sharp knife, cut salmon into broad, thin slices. Divide among
dinner plates. Pour a little sauce alongside. Top decoratively with
asparagus. Grind black pepper over and serve immediately.

Nutritional information per serving:  xx calories, xx gm protein, xxx
mg cholesterol, xx gm carbohydrate, xxx mg sodium, x gm fiber, xx gm
fat (x gm sat, x gm mono, x gm poly), x mg iron, xx mg calcium, xx%
of calories from fat.

Brought to you by MMCONV and Sylvia Steiger, SylviaRN (at) compuserve
(dot) com (change characters as needed, this is to prevent bulk
E-mailers from capturing my address), moderator of GT Cookbook and
FringeNet Lowfat & Luscious echoes.  For breadmachine tips and mixes,
visit my homepage: http://ourworld.compuserve.com/homepages/SylviaRN

