Title: Roasted Daurade With Fennel, Tomatoes, Olives, And Preser
Categories: Tvfn
Yield: 4 servings
For the Braised Fennel-
1 tb Extra virgin olive oil
8    Heads of organic baby fennel
Salt and pepper to taste
2 c  Chicken stock
For the Confit Tomatoes:
4    Field-ripened organic
Tomatoes
Coarse sea salt to taste
1/4 c  Extra virgin olive oil
8    Thyme branches
4    To 6 cloves of garlic
Pepper to taste
For the Preserved Lemon
Zest:
8    Lemons
1 c  Sugar
Salt to taste
1 c  Fresh lemon juice
For the Daurade Stock:
2 tb Olive oil
5 lb Daurade bones (gills removed
And iced)
1 c  Shallots
1 c  Fennel root
1/2 c  Garlic cloves
10    Basil stems
20    Dried fennel sticks
2 ga Cold chicken stock
For the Daurade:
1 c  Daurade stock
Sea salt and pepper to taste
2    Whole daurade, cut into
Fillets
Braised fennel
1/2 c  Pitted late harvest olives
Confit tomatoes
2 tb Basil leaves
Preserved lemon zest
2 tb Extra virgin olive oil
Preparation of the Braised Fennel:

Heat a heavy saucepan on full flame. Add the olive oil and trimmed
heads of baby fennel and sweat for one minute. Season with salt and
pepper and deglaze with chicken stock to cover. Cover and bring to a
boil. Simmer covered until fennel is tender, approximately fifteen
minutes. Chill in stock over ice and set aside.

Preparation of the Confit Tomatoes:

Preheat oven to 275 degrees F.

Boil the tomatoes in water for ten seconds, then peel and quarter
them. Place the tomatoes in a pan with the salt, oil, thyme, and
garlic. Cook at a low temperature for three to four hours or until
tomatoes are half their original size. Reserve in the oil.

Preparation of the Preserved Lemon Zest:

Zest the lemons with no pith into strips 1/3 inch wide and two inches
long. Place them in a pot of cold water and bring to a rolling boil.
Strain and repeat two more times. Mix the sugar, salt, and lemon
juice in a sauce pot and add the blanched lemon zest. Simmer for
twenty minutes at low heat until zest is soft, tart, and sweet.
Reserve in liquid for up to one week, refrigerated.

Preparation of the Daurade Stock:

Heat a large-bottomed heavy sauce pan over a high flame. Add olive
oil and cut up fish bones that have been patted dry. Sweat for two
minutes and add chopped vegetables, garlic, basil stems, and fennel
sticks. Sweat five minutes and cover with the cold chicken stock.
Bring to a boil, skim, and simmer gently for 45 minutes. Strain
through a cheese cloth and cool.

Preparation of the Sauce:

Reduce the daurade stock to 1/3 of a gallon and add 1/4 up of the
syrup from the candied lemon.

Season with sea salt and white pepper. Reserve warm.

Preparation of the Daurade:

Season the fillets with salt and white pepper and sear in a hot pan
with olive oil. Warm the fennel, olives, tomatoes, and basil with a
few strips of the lemon, finish with extra virgin olive oil, and
serve under the fillets of daurade.

Yield: 4 servings

GOURMET GETAWAYS SHOW # GG1A04 from Mary Elaine's and Chef Alessandro
Stratta

