Title: Roasted Oysters With Country Bacon
Categories:
Yield: 4 servings
MMMMM------------------MICHAEL'S PLACE #ML1A25-----------------------
24    Fresh oysters, in their
Shells
2    Plum tomatoes
1 pk Phyllo dough
1/4 c  Olive oil
1 tb Unsalted butter
3 lg Shallots, (about 1/4 cup)
Peeled and finely diced
1/4 c  White wine
1/4 c  Heavy cream
1 tb Chopped fresh tarragon
Leaves
2 oz Bacon, cooked and chopped
1/2 c  Steamed spinach (optional)
Coarse salt
Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Using a towel, grasp an oyster in the
palm of your hand. Press the oyster, rounded side down, on a firm
surface, still holding it with the towel. Shuck the oyster by wedging
the tip of an oyster knife (regular knives are too thinbladed)
between the halves of the shell, at the shell's narrowest end. When
the knife tip is securely wedged, rotate the blade to pry open the
shell. Slide the knife blade along the length of the shell to open
completely. Remove the oyster from the shell and reserve, along with
its juice. From each pair of oyster shells, save the one that is most
concave on the inside, and discard the one that is flatter. Place the
concave shells in a pan of cold water and scrub inside and out. Place
the clean oyster shells on a cookie sheet and set aside.

Dip the tomatoes briefly in boiling water to loosen the skins, then
in ice water. Peel, cut in half, remove and discard the seeds and
dice.

Lay out the phyllo dough one sheet at a time on a clean work surface.
Brush the sheet lightly with olive oil, sprinkle with coarse salt,
crumble the sheet like a piece of newspaper and place on a cookie
sheet. Bake at 350 degrees for 10 to 12 minutes until golden brown.

Have the sauce ingredients measured and ready beside the stove. When
you are ready to begin cooking the oysters, place the cookie sheet
containing the oyster shells in a 350 degree oven. On the top of the
stove, melt the butter in a hot saute pan until it begins to foam.
Add the shallots, the oysters and their juice, and the white wine.
Cook the oysters for 30 seconds, then add the heavy cream. Bring to a
quick boil, then reduce to a simmer for just a minute more, or until
the oysters' edges begin to curl. Add the tomato, tarragon, and
bacon. Heat for another 30 seconds, then remove promptly from the
heat.

Remove the oyster shells from the oven and arrange six on each plate.
Spoon an oyster into each shell and spoon a little of the sauce over
each. Top each dish with top hat of crispy phyllo.

Nutritional information per serving:  xx calories, xx gm protein, xxx
mg cholesterol, xx gm carbohydrate, xxx mg sodium, x gm fiber, xx gm
fat (x gm sat, x gm mono, x gm poly), x mg iron, xx mg calcium, xx%
of calories from fat.

Brought to you by MMCONV and Sylvia Steiger, SylviaRN (at) compuserve
(dot) com (change characters as needed, this is to prevent bulk
E-mailers from capturing my address), moderator of GT Cookbook and
FringeNet Lowfat & Luscious echoes.  For breadmachine tips and mixes,
visit my homepage: http://ourworld.compuserve.com/homepages/SylviaRN

