Title: Roast Goose
Categories: Tvfn
Yield: 4 servings
1 c  Honey
1 c  White vinegar
Enough water to cover the
Goose (4 to 6 quarts)
One 10 to 12 pound fresh
Goose
2 tb Salt
2 tb Freshly ground black pepper
2    Bay leaves
2 tb Dried thyme
2 tb Dried rosemary
4    Cloves garlic
1 sm Onion
2 tb Olive oil
1/2 c  Flour
3 c  Chicken stock
Place the honey, vinegar, and water in a pot large enough to hold the
goose, submerged. Bring the liquid to the boil and add the raw goose
to the pot. Return to the boil, reduce the heat and cook the goose at
a strong simmer for 20 minutes to render some of the grease as well
as begin to tenderize the normally chewy bird. Remove the goose from
the liquid and allow to cool at room temperature for 20 to 30
minutes, or until cool enough to handle.

Preheat oven to 325 degrees.

Prick the goose skin all around the carcass. Season the cavity with
half of the salt and pepper, add the herbs, onion and garlic. Truss
the legs and season the outside of the goose with the remaining salt
and pepper and the olive oil.

Preheat a heavy roasting pan for 10 minutes.

Place the goose, breast side down, on a rack in the roasting pan and
roast in the oven, skimming the fat and reserving it for another use,
for 1 hour and 30 minutes. Turn the goose breast side up and roast,
basting it with pan juices and skimming the fat, for 1 hour and 30
minutes to 2 hours more, or until the juices run clear when the
fleshy part of the thigh is pricked with a fork and a meat
thermometer inserted in the fleshy part of the thigh registers 165
degrees.

Transfer the goose to a platter, remove the trussing string, and keep
the goose warm, covered loosely with foil. Skim off all but 1/4 cup
of fat from the pan juices, add the flour, and cook the roux over
moderately low heat, stirring, until it has browned slightly. Add the
stock in a stream, whisking, and simmer the mixture, stirring
occasionally, for 20 minutes. Season with salt and

pepper and strain the gravy into a heated sauceboat.

Yield: 6 to 8 servings

MICHAEL'S PLACE SHOW #ML1B27

