Title: Roasted Chicken With Pineapple Curry Sauce
Categories: Live
Yield: 4 servings
2    Stalks fresh lemon grass,
About 9 inches each
1    Piece gingerroot (about 4
Inches), finely sliced
6    Cloves garlic, peeled,
Bashed, and chopped
2    Whole chickens, about 3 1/2
lb Each, rinsed and dried
For the Pineapple Curry
Sauce:
1 ts Light olive oil
3/4 c  Finely diced sweet onion
1 tb India Ethmix (recipe
Follows) or good Madras
Curry
1 tb Peeled and grated
Gingerroot
2 lg Cloves garlic, peeled,
Bashed, and finely chopped
1 tb Finely sliced lemongrass
3/4 c  Low-sodium chicken or
Vegetable stock
1/3 c  Frozen pineapple juice
Concentrate
1/4 c  Yogurt cheese (recipe
Follows)
1/2 ts Coconut extract
1 tb Thai fish sauce
To prepare the chickens:

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F.

Remove the tough outside layer of the lemongrass stalk and cut off
the root end and the dry top.  Starting from the root end, cut the
most tender, bulb-like part of the stalk into thin diagonal slices.
Combine the lemongrass, ginger, and garlic and divide between the
cavities of the two chickens.  Turn the chickens breast down on a
plate so that the seasonings fall against the inside of the breasts.
Insert a vertical poultry roaster into each chicken and stand
upright. Tie the legs together with cotton string and tuck the wings
behind the breast. Set the chickens in a 9 by 13-inch baking dish. If
you don't have a vertical roaster, lay the chickens on a rack in a
roasting pan. Tie the legs together with cotton string and tuck the
wings behind the breast. Whichever roasting method you are using,
pour 1 1/2 cups of warm water into the bottom of the baking dish.
Bake in the preheated oven for 45 minutes to 1 hour, or until the
chickens reach 140 degrees F in the thickest part of the thigh. (The
chickens in the roasting pan may take an extra 10 minutes.)  Remove
from the oven and set aside for 10 minutes.  The final internal
temperature should be 160 degrees F. To prepare the sauce: Warm the
oil in a medium saucepan over medium heat.  Saute the onion and the
India Ethmix until the onion is soft and translucent, about 5
minutes. Stir in the ginger, garlic, and lemon grass, and cook for 3
more minutes. Add the chicken stock and pineapple juice concentrate,
stirring to incorporate. Cook for an additional 3 minutes. Strain the
sauce through a sieve into a small saucepan using a puree press or
the back of a spoon. Whisk together the yogurt cheese, coconut
extract, and Thai fish sauce in a 2-cup glass measure. Pour a little
of the hot pineapple sauce into the yogurt mixture and stir to warm
the yogurt cheese. Add the tempered yogurt cheese to the sauce and
whisk until smooth. Cover and set aside to keep warm. To assemble the
dish: Remove the chickens from the roasting pan and pour the cooking
juices into a fat strainer. Remove the vertical roasters if you were
using them. Remove and discard the skin. Cut the legs and breast meat
away from the carcasses. Put aside 1 leg and 1 breast for another
meal. Slice the meat from the remaining breasts and legs and arrange
on a warmed plate.  Cover and keep warm. Pour the de-fatted pan
juices into a small saucepan and boil vigorously until the liquid is
reduced to about 1/4 cup.  Allow to cool for a minute, then stir into
the curry sauce.

Arrange slices of chicken on a warmed plate and spoon curry sauce
over the meat.

Yield: 6 servings

COOKING LIVE SHOW #CL8980

(Recipes courtesy of Graham Kerr, The Gathering Place)

