Title: Sardine And Swiss Chard Pastelitos
Categories: Toohot
Yield: 4 servings
2 1/2 c  Allpurpose flour
1/2 ts Salt
4 tb (1/4 cup) lard, chilled
4 tb (1/4 cup) butter, chilled
2    Egg yolks
4 tb Cold water
1    Egg
Filling:
2    (4ounce) cans sardines,
Drained
1/4 c  Fresh lime juice
1/2 bn Chopped fresh cilantro
1 lb Swiss chard, washed and
Coarsely chopped
2 tb Butter
2 tb Olive oil
1 md Onion, finely chopped
2    Cloves garlic, minced
2    Jalapeno peppers, seeded and
Finely chopped
1 ts Coarse salt
1/2 ts Freshly ground black pepper
1    Egg, beaten
1 tb Water
Sift the flour with the salt into a large bowl. Cut the lard and
butter into little pieces and rub into the flour until it resembles
coarse crumbs. Make a well in the center of the flour and stir in the
egg yolks. Add the cold water a tablespoon at a time until the dough
is soft but not sticky. Cover with plastic and refrigerate at least 1
hour.

Mash the sardines with the lime juice and cilantro and set aside.
Bring a large pot of salted water to a boil and immerse the Swiss
chard in the boiling water for a few seconds. Drain thoroughly and
squeeze dry. Chop the chard, both leaves and stems, and set aside.

Heat the butter and olive oil in a large skillet over moderate heat.
Add the onion and sautJ until soft, 3 to 5 minutes. Add the garlic,
jalapeno and salt and pepper, and sautJ another minute to release the
aromas. Add the Swiss chard and cook until blended. Remove from the
heat, season with salt to taste and set aside.

Roll the dough out on a lightly floured surface to 1/8inch thickness.
Use a round cookie cutter to cut 1520 circles about 1inch larger than
the circumference of muffin or cupcake tins. (The muffin tins should
be about 2 1/2inches in diameter). Use another round cutter to cut
the same number of circles the same size as the tins. Press the
larger circles into the tins.

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Add enough of the Swiss chard
mixture to each tin to come about two thirds of the way up the tin.
Divide the sardine filling among the tins. Whisk together the egg and
water. Moisten the edges of the pastry with a little of the egg wash.
Cover the filling with the smaller circles of pastry and seal the
edges, pressing together with your fingers. Brush the tops with more
of the egg wash and bake for 30 minutes, or until golden.

Yield: 4 to 6 servings

TOO HOT TAMALES SHOW #TH6354

Dough:

