Title: Shellfish Pot Pie
Categories: Taste
Yield: 4 servings
Flaky pastry:
2 1/4 c  Flour
1/2 ts Salt
1/4 c  Cold unsalted butter, cut
Into bits
1/2 c  Cold vegetable shortening,
Cut into bits
1/4 c  Ice water
1    Egg lightly beaten with 1
TB water, for egg wash
Filling:
9 tb Unsalted butter
1 c  Finely-chopped onions
1/2 c  Sliced celery
1/3 c  Minced carrots
1/4 lb Mushrooms, sliced
5 1/2 c  Bottled clam juice or fish
Stock
1/2 c  Dry white wine or white
Vermouth
Bouquet garni: 12 parsley
Stems, 1 teaspoon dried
Thyme, 6 peppercorns and
1    Bay leaf tied in a
Cheesecloth bag
1 lb Large shrimp, peeled,
Deveined and halved
Lengthwise
1/2 lb Sea scallops, halved if
Large
1/2 lb Lump crab meat
About 11/2 cups milk
6 tb Flour
1/4 c  Heavy cream
1/4 c  Freshly-grated Parmesan
Cheese
1/4 c  Minced fresh parsley
2 ts Dijon mustard
Freshly-grated nutmeg
Lemon juice
Salt and pepper
Make flaky pastry: Into a mixing bowl sift flour and salt. Add butter
and shortening and blend with a pastry blender or fingertips until it
resembles coarse meal. Add water, stirring with a fork until dough
comes together. If too dry, add a little more water. Gather dough
into a ball, wrap in plastic wrap and flatten into a disk. Chill at
least 30 minutes, or may be prepared a day ahead.

Make filling: Melt 3 tablespoons of butter over medium-low heat, add
onions, celery, carrots and mushrooms, cover and cook 8 to 10
minutes, or until onion is soft. Uncover, add clam juice, wine and
bouquet garni, bring to a simmer and stir in shrimp and scallops.
Return to simmering, stirring, then remove pan from heat. Drain
shellfish mixture, reserving liquid and bouquet garni separately.
Measure poaching liquid and add enough milk to measure 3 1/2 cups.

In a saucepan melt remaining butter, add flour and cook over
medium-low heat, stirring, for 3 minutes. Add reserved poaching
liquid and bouquet garni and heat to simmering. Cook, stirring
occasionally, for 20 minutes. Discard bouquet garni. Stir in cream,
cheese, parsley, mustard, nutmeg and lemon juice; season to taste
with salt and pepper. Stir in shellfish mixture and crab meat and
transfer to a large buttered baking or gratin dish.

Preheat oven to 400 degrees. Roll out chilled dough on a
lightly-floured work surface to 2 inches larger on all sides than
baking dish. Drape crust loosely over filling, tuck edges into dish
and crimp decoratively. Brush dough with egg wash. Cut several slits
in top of pie. If you have extra dough, cut them into decorative fish
shapes, arrange on top of pie and brush again with egg wash. Bake pie
until top is dark golden brown and filling bubbles around edges, 35
to 40 minutes. If filling begins to bubble out of pan, place a baking
sheet on oven rack below pie. Serve whole pie at table.

Yield: 6 to 8 servings

TASTE SHOW #TS4686

