Title: Shellfish Boil
Categories:
Yield: 4 servings
MMMMM--------------------EMERIL LIVE #EMIA19-------------------------
1/2 c  Mustard seeds
6 tb Coriander seeds
1/4 c  Whole allspice seeds
1/4 c  Dill seeds
2 ts Whole cloves
12 sm Dried red chilies crumbled,
Or 1 tablespoon crushed red
Pepper
16    Bay leaves
8 qt Water
1    Dozen small new potatoes,
Scrubbed
2 lg Onions, unpeeled, cut in
Half crosswise
2    Lemons, halved
1 1/4 c  Plus 1 tablespoon salt
1/4 c  Plus 1 tablespoon cayenne
1 lg Head garlic, cut in half
Crosswise
1 lb Andouille sausage, cut into
1    Inch pieces
4    Ears fresh corn, shucked and
Cut into thirds
2 lb Crawfish
5 lb Crabs, such as dungeness,
Blue, stone, king or snow
Crabs
2    (1 pound) lobsters
2 lb Shrimp, peeled and divined
2    Dozen littleneck, steamer,
Razor, Pacific littleneck or
Manila clams
1 c  Melted butter, warm
2 tb Finely chopped parsley
Place the first seven ingredients in cheesecloth and tie with butchers
twine. Put the seasoning bag, water, potatoes, onions, lemons, 1 1/4
cups of the salt, 1/4 cup of the cayenne, and garlic in a large
stockpot. Bring the liquid to a boil, cover and boil for 15 minutes.
Add the sausage, corn, crawfish, and crabs. Using a long handled
spoon, stir around and press the contents of the pot down well into
the water. Cover the pot and return to a boil. Boil for 2 minutes.
Turn off the heat. Add the remaining 1 tablespoon salt and 1
tablespoon cayenne. Cover and let the boil stand for 10 minutes. Add
the shrimp and clams. Continue to cook for 5 minutes. Drain.

Turn the shellfish boil on to news paper. Serve with melted butter.
Garnish with parsley.

Nutritional information per serving:  xx calories, xx gm protein, xxx
mg cholesterol, xx gm carbohydrate, xxx mg sodium, x gm fiber, xx gm
fat (x gm sat, x gm mono, x gm poly), x mg iron, xx mg calcium, xx%
of calories from fat.

Brought to you by MMCONV and Sylvia Steiger, SylviaRN (at) compuserve
(dot) com (change characters as needed, this is to prevent bulk
E-mailers from capturing my address), moderator of GT Cookbook and
FringeNet Lowfat & Luscious echoes, creator of Frazzled Cook
breadmachine mixes, homepage
http://ourworld.compuserve.com/homepages/SylviaRN

