Title: Smothered Pork Chops
Categories: Tvfn
Yield: 4 servings
8    3/4 -inch-thick shoulder
Pork chops (about 4 pounds)
1 ts Plus 1 tablespoon salt
1 ts Plus 1 tablespoon freshly
Ground black pepper
2 c  Plus 2 tablespoons
All-purpose flour
1/2 c  Vegetable oil
2 lg Onions, coarsely chopped
2    Green bell peppers, cored,
Seeded, and coarsely
Chopped
2    Stalks celery, coarsely
Chopped
2 c  Water
You'll need two heavy skillets with lids or a large Dutch oven to
finish cooking these chops, but it's easier to brown them and make
the gravy in one skillet.

Trim the excess fat from the edges of the pork chops. Sprinkle them
with 1 teaspoon each of the salt and pepper. Season 2 cups of the
flour with the remaining 1 tablespoon each of salt and pepper. Dredge
the pork chops in the flour until coated on all sides. Shake off any
excess flour.

Pour the vegetable oil into a heavy deep skillet (cast-iron is
perfect) over medium-high heat. When the oil begins to shake
slightly, add as many pork chops as will fit in the pan without
touching. Fry, turning once, until well browned on both sides, about
5 minutes. Remove the chops to a plate and repeat with the remaining
chops.

Pour off all but 4 tablespoons of drippings from the skillet. Reduce
the heat to medium and add the onions, green peppers, and celery to
the skillet. Cook until brown and tender, about 10 minutes. Move the
vegetables to one side of the skillet and sprinkle the 2 tablespoons
of flour over the bottom of the skillet. Cook the flour until golden
brown, stirring constantly and being careful not to let the flour
burn. Slowly pour in the water and stir until you have a smooth gravy.

Divide the pork chops between two heavy skillets with lids or place
them all in a large heavy Dutch oven. Top with the gravy and
vegetables and cover the skillets or Dutch oven tightly. Simmer over
low heat until the vegetables are tender and the pork chops are
cooked through, about 15 minutes. Check the seasoning and add salt
and pepper as necessary. Serve the pork chops, spooning some of the
gravy and vegetables over each. Pass extra gravy.

Yield: Makes 8 servings

Taken from "Sylvia's Soul Food-Recipes from Harlem's World-Famous
Restaurant" by Sylvia Woods and Christopher Styler, published by
Hearst Books, New York, NY, c. 1992.

Please note that these recipes have been provided with the permission
of and courtesy of the copyright holders. The FOOD NETWORK has not
created any of these particular recipes nor tested any of them in our
test kitchen.

