Title: Spice Rub
Categories: Tvfn
Yield: 4 servings
Toast and grind the cumin,
Black pepper, mustard seeds,
Coriander and
Cloves Now mix them with the
Chilies, ginger, cinnamon
And brown sugar.
Store until needed.
Yield 1/4 cup

Mofongo: Heat a saute pan until quite hot. Now add some peanut oil
and fry the plantain pieces until they are quite dark on all sides.
Remove them to paper toweling to drain. Now place the cooked
plantains in a bowl and mash in the foie gras and the butter. Season
to taste.

Heat the olive oil and butter in a large saucepan until the butter is
foamy. Add the garlic and jalapenos. Stir. Now add the remaining
vegetables and allow to caramelize. Now add the spices and stir. Add
the Spanish Sherry wine vinegar and Sherry and stir again. Allow to
reduce by half.

Now add the beans and chicken stock. Bring to a boil and skim as
necessary. Lower the heat so that its a high simmer until the beans
are just cooked, (about 1 hour). Strain and reserve the beans in a
bowl. Return the stock/bean broth mixture to the fire and cook down
until almost syrupy. Pour it over the beans and reserve. Season to
taste.

For the chicken

Preheat an oven to 400 degrees.

Cut a pocket in the underside of the chicken and spoon the mofongo
into it. Cover the pocket back up and season the breast with some of
the spice rub.

Combine the flour and cornmeal with the salt and pepper and dredge
the four breasts in that. Set aside.

Heat the black bean sauce back up and keep warm.

Heat a large heavy skillet and then add some peanut oil into it. Begin
cooking the breasts, skin side down. Allow to get crisp on each side.
Now place the skillet into the oven and cook approximately 10
minutes. Remove and allow to rest for a moment. Return the black
beans to high heat and season with a touch of the rub, to taste. Now
place about 3 to 4 ounces of the bean sauce onto 4 warm plates.
Center the chicken on top of the sauce. Serve.

Yield: 4 servings

Note: A warm fruit chutney is a nice addition to this dish.

