Title: Stinging Nettle Tagliatelle With Hot Sausage, Kale And Pe
Categories: Molto
Yield: 4 servings
4    Extra large eggs
6 oz Frozen chopped spinach,
Defrosted and squeezed very
Dry
3 1/2 c  Unbleached all-purpose flour
Plus extra for dusting work
Surface
1/2 ts Olive oil
The rest:
8 oz Fresh spicy Italian sausage
With fennel seeds, cut into
1/4    -inch
Pieces
1/2 lb Kale, finely chopped to
Yield about 4 cups
1/2 c  Chicken stock
1/2 c  Freshly grated Pecorino
Cheese
Green pasta recipe: Substitute steamed nettles for steamed spinach,
or add 1/2 cup dried nettles and increase egg by 1. Make a mound of
the flour in the center of a large wooden cutting board. Make a well
in the middle of the flour and add the eggs, oil and spinach.  Using
a fork, beat together the eggs, oil and spinach and begin to
incorporate the flour starting with the inner rim of the well.  As
you expand the well, keep pushing the flour up to retain the well
shape.  Do not worry that this initial phase looks messy.  The dough
will come together when 1/2 of the flour is incorporated. Start
kneading the dough with both hands, using the palms of your hands
primarily. Once you have a cohesive mass, remove the dough from the
board and scrape up any left over crusty bits. Lightly flour the
board and continue kneading for 3 more minutes.  The dough should be
elastic and a little sticky.  Continue to knead for another 3
minutes, remembering to dust your board when necessary.  Wrap the
dough in plastic and allow to rest for 30 minutes at room
temperature.  Note: do not skip the kneading or resting portion of
this recipe, they are essential for a light pasta. For the sausage:
Heat 6 quarts water to boiling in a spaghetti pot and add 2
tablespoons salt.  In a 10-inch to 12-inch sauté pan, cook sausage
over low heat until fat begins to render, about 6 minutes.  Turn heat
up to medium and cook until most of fat from sausage has rendered out
and sausage is golden brown.  Add kale and chicken stock and cook
until very soft, about 2 to 3 minutes.  Season with salt and pepper
and remove from heat.

Drop pasta into boiling water and cook until tender (about 1 minute).
Drain pasta and toss into sauté pan with kale and sausage. Cook over
high heat until coated, about 1 minute. Add grated cheese and toss to
mix. Pour into heated serving bowl and serve.

Yield: 4 servings

MOLTO MARIO SHOW #MB5691

GREEN PASTA:

