Title: Strawberry Rum Trifle
Categories: Tvfn
Yield: 4 servings
6    Egg yolks
1/2 c  Dark rum, divided
1/2 c  Sugar
3/4 c  Plus 2 tablespoons milk
1 tb Cornstarch dissolved in 2
TB milk
1 c  Heavy cream
1/4 c  Light rum
1 c  Strawberry jam
36    (1 1/2-inch) lady fingers
1/2 ts Vanilla extract
1    12ounce pound cake, cut into
1/4    -inch slices
3 pt Strawberries, washed, hulled
Sliced and dusted with 2
Tablespoons
Sugar
For custard sauce: In medium stainless steel lined saucepan, over low
heat, whisk yolks and 1/4 cup rum together. Add sugar, whisking until
mixture is thick and lemon colored, about 2 to 3 minutes. When the
mixture begins to thicken add 3/4 cup milk and cornstarch mixture.
Continuing over mediumlow heat cook, stirring constantly, until
mixture thickens to a pudding like consistency , about 3 to 5 minutes
(do not boil or mixture will separate). Remove from heat and stir
continuously until slightly cooled. Transfer the warm custard to a
clean, dry bowl, cover the top surface with a layer of plastic so
that a skin doesn=t form and refrigerate. When the custard has cooled
for 1 to 2 hours combine the heavy cream and vanilla in a bowl and
whip either by hand or using a stand mixer until firm. Fold the half
the whipped cream into the custard and keep cold. Reserve the
remaining whipped cream for the final decoration of the trifle.

Combine the light rum and the strawberry jam. Brush the inside
surface of the bowl lightly with this mixture with a thin film to act
as adhesive for the lady fingers. Arrange the lady fingers, rounded
sides outward facing, around the inside of a 12 cup glass compote
dish or bowl. Line the bottom of dish with the remaining lady
fingers, spoon in 2 tablespoons of the jam and smooth out into an
even layer, covering the lady fingers as evenly and equally as
possible.

Spoon 1/3 the custard sauce over strawberry jam layer. Top with half
of the sliced strawberries. Cover the berries with single layer of
pound cake slices. Using pastry brush, soak cake generously with the
remaining 1/4 cup of dark rum.. Carefully spoon another 1/3 of the
custard over the cake. Repeat the layering process again with the
remaining pound cake slices, rum, jam and berries. Cover with
remaining custard, spreading evenly over top. Refrigerate 1 to 2
hours before serving. Decorate by topping with a thin layer of the
remaining whipped cream.

Yield: 10 servings

MICHAEL'S PLACE SHOW #ML1CO2

