Title: Stracotto Doagnello with Olives and Orange
Categories:
Yield: 4 servings
MMMMM--------------------MOLTO MARIO #MB5727-------------------------
1/2    Boneless leg of lamb (about
4    Pounds), butterflied open
4 tb Virgin olive oil
2 md Red onions, chopped into 1/2
Inch dice
4    Cloves garlic, peeled and
Whole
2    Anchovy fillets, rinsed
2    Oranges, quartered, seeded
And sliced into 1/4 inch
Quarter moons
1 c  Tuscan olives, or
Picholines
1/2 c  Orange juice
1 c  Chianti
1 c  Basic tomato sauce, recipe
Follows
3/16    Spanish onion, cut into
1/4    -inch dice
1    Cloves garlic, thinly
Sliced
1/2 oz Virgin olive oil
3/4 tb Fresh thyme (or 2
TB dried)
1/8 md Carrot, finely shredded
14 oz Tomatoes, crushed and mixed
Well with their juices
Salt, to taste
BASIC TOMATO SAUCE: Saute the onion and garlic in the olive oil over
medium heat until translucent, but not brown (about 10 minutes). Add
the thyme and carrot and cook 5 minutes more. Add the tomatoes. Bring
to a boil, lower the heat to just bubbling, stirring occasionally for
30 minutes. Season with salt to taste. Serve immediately, or set
aside for further use. The sauce may be refrigerated for up to one
week or frozen for up to 6 months.

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.

Trim most of the fat from the lamb and season with salt and pepper.
In a heavy bottomed casserole (at least 6 quarts), heat olive oil
until smoking. Brown lamb on both sides until dark golden brown and
remove. Add onions, garlic, anchovies and orange pieces and cook
until softened, scraping the casserole bottom with a wooden spoon to
loosen the brown bits. Add olives, orange juice, wine and tomato
sauce and bring to a boil. Add lamb, lower heat to a simmer and cook
70 minutes, or until fork tender.

Nutritional information per serving:  xx calories, xx gm protein, xxx
mg cholesterol, xx gm carbohydrate, xxx mg sodium, x gm fiber, xx gm
fat (x gm sat, x gm mono, x gm poly), x mg iron, xx mg calcium, xx%
of calories from fat.

Brought to you by MMCONV and Sylvia Steiger, SylviaRN (at) compuserve
(dot) com (change characters as needed, this is to prevent bulk
E-mailers from capturing my address), moderator of GT Cookbook and
FringeNet Lowfat & Luscious echoes, creator of Frazzled Cook
breadmachine mixes, homepage
http://ourworld.compuserve.com/homepages/SylviaRN

