Title: Strawberry Spiral Pie
Categories: Live
Yield: 4 servings
1 1/2 lb Strawberries, hulled, washed
And drained
2/3 c  Strawberry jam
1 tb Unsalted butter
1 tb Cornstarch
1 tb Quick-cooking tapioca
1/2 ts Ground ginger
1/4 ts Cinnamon
1/8 ts Nutmeg
1/3    To 1/2 cup sugar, according
To the sweetness of the
Berries
Biscuit Dough, (previous
Recipe) patted into a
Rectangle
Preheat the oven to 450 degrees and line the oven floor with foil to
catch any drips.

Spread the strawberries on paper towels to dry. In a small bowl, stir
the jam to loosen it. In a saucepan, melt the butter and keep warm.
In a large bowl, whisk together the cornstarch, tapioca, ginger,
cinnamon, nutmeg and sugar. Halve any very large berries. Gently toss
the berries with the dry ingredients.

On a floured surface, roll out the Biscuit Dough lightly flouring the
dough if necessary into a 10 by 18-inch rectangle. Square off the
corners. Brush the dough lightly with about half of the melted
butter. Using an icing spatula, spread the jam over the rectangle,
leaving a 1/2-inch border on one long side. Starting at the opposite
long side, roll up the dough jelly-roll fashion and pinch the seam
closed. Roll the log so that it is an even diameter, exactly 18
inches long; turn the log seam side down. Using a large sharp knife,
quarter the log, then cut each quarter into 3 equal pieces so that
there will be 12 spiraled biscuits in all.

Using a rubber spatula, fold the strawberry filling once to remix.
Spoon the filling into a 9-inch glass pie plate and smooth the top.
Arrange 8 biscuits around the perimeter of the pie and the remaining
4 biscuits in the center. Don't push the biscuits down into the
strawberries. Bake the pie for 20 minutes, or until the top is golden
brown and the filling is bubbling. Lower the oven temperature to 350
degrees, loosely cover the pie with foil and bake for 15 minutes
longer. Transfer to a rack to cool for 30 minutes before serving.

Yield: 6 to 8 servings

COOKING LIVE SHOW #CL8947

All recipes courtesy of Peggy Cullen

