Title: Stuffed Zucchini Flowers with Truffles
Categories: Emeril, World
Yield: 6 Servings
1 lb Wild mushrooms; cleaned and
-stemmed
Juice of one lemon
1 c  Plus 1tb unsalted butter
2 ts Shallots; minced
1 ts Garlic; minced
1/4 c  Plus 1tb heavy cream
2    Egg yolks
6 sm Truffles (about 1/2oz ea)
6    Zucchini flowers with
-zucchini attached
1 lb Fresh young spinach leaves
;cleaned and stemmed
Salt and pepper
MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
Fresh sprigs of chervil
In a food processor, finely chop the mushrooms.  Place in a bowl and
sprinkle with the lemon juice to prevent the mushrooms from
discolouring. In a saute pan, heat 1 tablespoon of butter. When
butter is melted, saute the shallots and garlic. Add the mushrooms
and season with salt and pepper. Saute for 3-4 minutes.  Drain the
mushrooms in a sieve placed over a saucepan. Place the mushrooms in a
saucepan and cook over high heat until all the excess moisture has
eveaporated. Combine the cream and egg yolks in small mixing bowl and
whisk until blended. Whisk this mixture into the mushrooms and let
cook over high heat for 2 minutes. Remove from heat and allow to
cool.  Gently open petals of each blossom and dill center of each
with 1/2 tablespoon of the mushroom mixture. Nestel a truffle in the
center of each blossom and carefully close the petals up around thhe
truffle and stuffing. Place the zucchini on the wire rack or bamboo
steamer. Cover with a sheet of aluminium foil.  Place the pan, with
water over high heat and steam for 15 minutes or until zucchini is
fork tender. Place the reserved mushroom liquid on top and reduce to
2 tablespoons liquid. Cut the remaining butter into cubes and whisk
into the mushroom liquid, until each cube is incorporated. Season
with salt and pepper. Spread the spinach leaves on the platter.
Place the zuchini on the spinach and drizzle with the sauce.  Garnish
with chervil sprigs.

Source: Essence of Emeril, #2327, TVFN formatted by Lisa Crawford,
4/28/96

