Title: Sweet And Sour Cabbage
Categories: Try it, Vegetables
Yield: 2 Cups
MMMMM-----------------ESSENCE OF EMERIL #EE2417----------------------
1 tb Olive oil
3 oz Diced bacon, raw
1/2 c  Chopped onions
2 c  Shredded Nappa cabbage
1    Granny Smith Apple, cored
And diced
1/4 c  Apple cider vinegar
2    Bay leaves
2    Whole cinnamon sticks
1/4 ts Ground allspice
1/2 c  Water
3 tb Sugar
2 tb Finely chopped parsley
6 oz Roasted pork loin, sliced
Into 1-inch slices
1/2 c  Fried leeks
1/2 c  Shallot reduction (veal
Reduction with julienned
Shallots)
1 tb Chopped chives
1 tb Brunoise red pepper
In a large non-reactive saut&eacute; pan, heat the olive oil. When
the oil is hot, render the bacon until crispy, about 3-5 minutes.
Remove the bacon and drain on a paper-lined plate. Saut&eacute; the
onions and cabbage for 2-3 minutes in the bacon fat. Season with salt
and pepper. Add the apples, vinegar, bay leaves, cinnamon sticks,
allspice, and water and simmer for 3 minutes. Stir in the sugar to
dissolve, about 2 minutes. Cover the pot and cook for 15 minutes.
Turn up the heat and uncover. Continue to cook for 15 minutes,
stirring occasionally. Stir in the bacon and parsley. Adjust the
seasonings if needed. Plate a slice of the pork loin in the center of
the plate. Alternate layering the cabbage and pork, until all the
pork is used. Top the mille-feuille with the fried leeks and spoon
the reduction around the plate. Garnish with chives and brunoise
peppers.

Nutritional information per serving:  xx calories, xx gm protein, xxx
mg cholesterol, xx gm carbohydrate, xxx mg sodium, x gm fiber, xx gm
fat (x gm sat, x gm mono, x gm poly), x mg iron, xx mg calcium, xx%
of calories from fat.

Brought to you by MMCONV and Sylvia Steiger, SylviaRN (at) compuserve
(dot) com (change characters as needed, this is to prevent bulk
E-mailers from capturing my address), moderator of GT Cookbook and
FringeNet Lowfat & Luscious echoes.  For breadmachine tips and mixes,
visit my homepage: http://ourworld.compuserve.com/homepages/SylviaRN

