Title: Tajik Non
Categories: Breads
Yield: 4 servings
1/2 c  Warm water
1 ts Sugar
1 tb Dry yeast
1 c  Plain yogurt (2 percent or
Whole milk)
1 c  Water
1 tb Sea salt
2 c  Whole wheat flour
2 1/2    To 3 1/2 cups unbleached
All-purpose or hard white
Flour
Topping:
Approximately 2 tablespoons
Finely chopped shallot
Approximately 1 teaspoon
Salt
Water for spritzing
You will need a large bread bowl, a small heavy-bottomed saucepan,
unglazed quarry tiles or a baking stone or one or two baking sheets,
to fit on a rack in your oven, a rolling pin, a bread stamp or a fork
or a wire whisk, a peel or a long-handled spatula, small spray bottle
for spritzing (optional).

Place 1/2 cup warm water in a large bowl, stir in sugar, then
sprinkle on yeast and stir to dissolve.  Place yogurt and one cup
water in a saucepan, stir to mix, then place over medium heat,
stirring occasionally, until lukewarm.  Add the yogurt mixture to the
yeast and water mixture and stir. Add the whole wheat flour one cup
at a time, stirring in one direction only as you add the flour. Then
stir one hundred times (for about one minute) in the same

direction to activate the gluten.  Let this sponge stand, covered,
for 10 minutes or for as long as 2 hours.

Sprinkle 1 tablespoon salt over the sponge, then stir in unbleached
flour one cup at a time until dough is too stiff to stir.  Turn it
out onto a lightly floured surface and knead for 10 minutes, until
the dough becomes smooth and elastic, incorporating more unbleached
flour as necessary to prevent dough from sticking.

Rinse out, wipe and lightly oil your bread bowl.  Add the dough,
cover with plastic wrap, and let rise until doubled in volume,
approximately 1 1/2 hours.

Position a rack in the top third of your oven.  Arrange unglazed
quarry tiles on it, leaving a 1-inch gap between tiles and the oven
walls (to allow air to circulate).  Alternatively place a baking
stone or baking sheets on the rack.  Preheat the oven to 500 degrees
F.

Gently punch down the dough and turn out onto a lightly floured
surface. If you have time, let rest, covered, for 10 minutes. Place
shallots and remaining salt beside your work surface, together with a
bowl of lukewarm water.  Divide dough into 8 equal pieces. Using
lightly floured hands, press each piece into a 3 to 4-inch round.

Work with one round at a time, leaving the others covered at the back
of your work surface.  Working on a lightly floured surface, roll out
to a 6-inch round.  With a fork or bread stamp, or the edge of a wire
whisk, stamp a 1 1/2-inch diameter circle at the center of the bread
thoroughly, to flatten and pierce it (to prevent it from rising).
Sprinkle onto the center approximately 1/2 teaspoon chopped shallot,
a pinch of salt, and a sprinkle of water.

Quickly roll out and prepare one, two, or three more breads
(depending on the size of your oven), then transfer prepared breads
to the hot tiles, stone, or baking sheets.  Begin shaping your next
breads as the first batch is baking.  Let bake for approximately 5
minutes, or until lightly golden; you can also let breads brown to a
deeper hue by leaving them in for 7 to 8 minutes.

Use a long-handled spatula to remove from the oven.  Place on a rack
to cool, then stack and wrap loosely in a cotton cloth to keep soft
and warm. Shape and bake remaining breads in the same way.

Yield:  8 breads about 6 inches in diameter, with a soft raised rim
and flattened center topped with shallots

BAKERS' DOZEN ALFORD AND DUGUID SHOW #BD1A26

