Title: Tea Salmon In The Garden With Lemon
Categories:
Yield: 4 servings
MMMMM----------------CHEF DU JOUR NORMAN VAN AKEN---------------------
1/3 c  Lapsang Souchong tea
1/3 c  Balsamic vinegar
3 tb Butter
10    Shallots, peeled and thinly
Sliced
2 tb Sugar
1 pn Salt
1 pn Pepper
8    Wooden skewers, presoaked in
Warm water for at least 2
Hours
24 oz Skinless, boneless salmon,
Cut into long ribbon shapes
MMMMM---------------------------LEMON--------------------------------
1/2 c  Lemon juice
3 tb Champagne vinegar
2    Shallots, peeled and sliced
1    Bay leaf, broken
1 ts Cracked black pepper
3 tb Heavy cream
1/2 lb Butter; cut into small
Pieces and kept very cold
MMMMM-----------------VINAIGRETTE FOR THE GARDEN----------------------
1 c  Red wine vinegar
1/2 c  Soy
1/2 c  Dark roasted sesame oil
1/2 c  Chopped cilantro leaves
1/2 c  Hot chile oil
3 tb Peeled, chopped ginger
3    Tablespoons, minced garlic
1 1/2 tb Sugar
MMMMM---------------------------GARDEN--------------------------------
8 c  Mixed vegetables
Peanut oil or canola oil for
Sauteing the vegetables
Soak the dried tea in the balsamic for a minimum of 30 minutes before
proceeding with the next step.

Heat a medium sized shallow saucepan. Add the butter and allow to foam
briefly. Now scatter the shallots across the bottom of the pan and
stir occasionally to coat them.

When the shallots are caramelized, add the sugar and stir again. Now
add the tea and balsamic and stir. Allow the vinegar to reduce almost
completely. Season with salt and pepper. Remove to a bowl and allow to
cool.

Lay the ribbon cuts out on a cutting board. Take the prepared salmon
and keep the best looking side down. Sprinkle or rub the tea mixture
sparingly down the length of each ribbon.

Roll the ribbons up into a tight circle and secure them with a skewer
from the 12 o'clock to 6 o' clock position and the 3 to 9 o'clock
position.

Refrigerate until ready to grill them.

Note: The tea mixture without the fish can be made up to a week in
advance and stored in the refrigerator.

For the lemon: Put the lemon juice, vinegar, shallots, bay leaf and
cracked black pepper in a small, heavy, nonreactive saucepan and
bring it to a simmer over a medium heat. Allow the liquid to reduce
until only about 3 ounces remain. Now add the cream. Once it boils,
whisk in the butter, a bit at a time until it is incorporated. Strain
the sauce through a fine meshed strainer and keep in a warm place.

Vinaigrette for the garden: Mix all ingredients together and set
aside.

For the garden: An assortment of 8 cup mixed vegetables with an Asian
aesthetic. I like to use a mix of cucumbers, purple cabbage, red and
yellow bell peppers, blanched snow peas, blanched asparagus spears,
bean sprouts and shiitake mushrooms.

When you are almost ready to eat, fire up a hot grill.

Grill the spirals until just done, about 4 to 5 minutes. Meanwhile
heat a large wok or skillet until very hot. Add the oil for stir
frying the vegetables. Add the vegetables and cook briefly together.
Add enough of the vinaigrette to lightly dress them. (Reserve any
extra in the refrigerator for another time.) Season to taste.

Place the cooked fish in the center of four plates. Remove the
skewers. Spoon some of the prepared lemon butter around the fish.
Mound the vegetables over the fish. Serve.

Nutritional information per serving:  xx calories, xx gm protein, xxx
mg cholesterol, xx gm carbohydrate, xxx mg sodium, x gm fiber, xx gm
fat (x gm sat, x gm mono, x gm poly), x mg iron, xx mg calcium, xx%
of calories from fat.

Brought to you by MMCONV and Sylvia Steiger, SylviaRN (at) compuserve
(dot) com (change characters as needed, this is to prevent bulk
E-mailers from capturing my address), moderator of GT Cookbook and
FringeNet Lowfat & Luscious echoes.  For breadmachine tips and mixes,
visit my homepage: http://ourworld.compuserve.com/homepages/SylviaRN

