Title: The Best Bread Ever
Categories: Live
Yield: 4 servings
3 1/3    To 4 cups unbleached bread
Flour
2 ts Fine sea salt
1 ts Instant yeast
1 1/4 c  Water
Cornmeal for the baking
Sheet
Place the flour, salt, and yeast in a food processor fitted with the
metal blade. Using an instant read thermometer, adjust the water
temperature so that the combined temperatures of the water and the
flour give a base temperature of 130 degrees if using a Cuisinart or
KitchenAid, or 150 degrees if using a Braun. With the machine
running, pour all but 2 tablespoons of the water through the feed
tube. Process for 20 seconds, adding the remaining water if the dough
seems crumbly and dry and does not come together into a ball during
this time. Continue mixing the dough another 25 seconds, for a total
for 45 seconds.

Stop the machine and take the temperature of the dough with an
instant read thermometer, which should read between 75 degrees and 80
degrees. If the temperature is lower than 75 degrees, process the
dough for an additional 5 seconds. If the temperature of the dough is
still lower than 75 degrees, then process the dough for 5 seconds, up
to twice more, until it reaches the desired temperature. If the
temperature is higher than 80 degrees, remove the thermometer, scrape
the dough from the food processor into an ungreased bowl, and
refrigerate for 5 to 10 minutes. Check the temperature of the dough
after 5 minutes; the dough should be 80 degrees or cooler by that
time.

Remove the dough from the processor and place it in a large ungreased
bowl. Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and allow the dough to ferment
for 1 1/2 to 2 hours at room temperature, about 70 degrees to 72
degrees. It will increase in volume somewhat, but don't be concerned
by how much.

Turn the dough onto a lightly floured work surface. With a dough
scraper or kitchen knife, shape the dough into a rough ball. Cover
with a sheet of plastic wrap and let rest for 15 to 20 minutes.

Place the fermented bread dough on an unfloured work surface so it
can grab the dry surface when rolled. Lightly cup both of your hands
around the dough. Scoop the palms of your hands under the loaf a few
times. As the dough stretches, tension will develop on the surface of
the loaf. While gently pressing down on the piece of dough, use a
circular motion to roll it along on the table, allowing it to catch
and drag. Continue rolling until the tension helps the dough form a
tight ball under your hands. Lightly dust the round shape with flour.
Roll up your sleeve and press your elbow right into the middle of the
loaf. Rub and press until your elbow hits the work surface. Press
your fingers into the indentation in the dough until a hole is formed
in the center of the dough. Pick up the dough, and turn it between
your two hands to stretch and enlarge the hole in the loaf. Slide
your hands into the hole in the dough and rotate the dough around
them until the hole becomes approximately 6 inches in diameter. Place
the dough, seam side down, on a floured baking sheet. Cover and proof
the loaf for 45 minutes to an hour at room temperature, 70 to 72
degrees.

One hour before baking, put the oven rack on the second shelf from the
bottom of the oven and place the baking stone on the rack. Place a
small pan for water on the oven floor. Preheat the oven to 425
degrees.

Carefully pour about 1 cup of warm water into the pan onto the oven
floor. Slash the loaf, then slide the couronne from the peel or the
back of the baking sheet onto the baking stone in the oven. Bake it
at 425 degrees for about 40 to 45 minutes.

Remove the bread form the oven and immediately place the loaves on a
wire rack to cool completely before storing.

COOKING LIVE SHOW #CL9018

All recipes courtesy of Charles Van Over, The Best Bread Ever

