Title: Tortelli Alle Erbette
Categories: Molto
Yield: 4 servings
Filling-
1 lb Swiss chard or beet tops,
Rinsed, chopped and boiled
20    Minutes and
Cooled
2 c  Ricotta cheese
1 c  Freshly grated
Parmigiano-Reggiano plus 1/2
Cup
2    Eggs
1/2 ts Freshly grated nutmeg
1    Recipe basic pasta, rolled
To thinnest setting, recipe
Follows
6 tb Unsalted butter
In a mixing bowl, stir together cooked chard, ricotta, Parmigiano,
eggs and nutmeg until well blended and season with salt and pepper.

Lay pasta sheets out on to work surface and cut into 2 inch squares.
Place 2 teaspoons chard mixture in center of each and fold into
rectangles, pressing firmly on all edges to seal.

Bring 6 quarts water to boil and add 2 tablespoons salt. Place
tortelli carefully in water, lower heat to high simmer, and cook 3 to
4 minutes until tender. Melt butter in a 12 to 14 inch sautJ pan.
Drain tortelli carefully and place in pan with butter. Toss to coat
and serve immediately with grated cheese on the side.

Yield: 4 servings

FRESH EGG PASTA

3 1/2 cups unbleached all-purpose flour plus 1/2 cup 4 extra large
eggs
1/2    teaspoon olive oil

Make a mound of the flour in the center of a large wooden cutting
board. Make a well in the middle of the flour and add the eggs, oil
and any other flavoring you choose. Using a fork, beat together the
eggs, oil and flavorings and begin to incorporate the flour starting
with the inner rim of the well. As you expand the well, keep pushing
the flour up to retain the well shape. Do not worry that this initial
phase looks messy. The dough will come together when 1/2 of the flour
is incorporated.

Start kneading the dough with both hands, using the palms of your
hands primarily. Once you have a cohesive mass, remove the dough from
the board and scrape up any left over crusty bits. Lightly flour the
board and continue kneading for 3 more minutes. The dough should be
elastic and a little sticky. Continue to knead for another 3 minutes,
remembering to dust your board when necessary. Wrap the dough in
plastic and allow to rest for 30 minutes at room temperature. Note:
do not skip the kneading or resting portion of this recipe, they are
essential for a light pasta.

Yield: 1 pound

MOLTO MARIO SHOW #MB5729

