Title: Venison and Melange of Sausage Cassoulet
Categories: Emeril
Yield: 6 servings
1 tb Unsalted butter
1/4 c  Chopped onions
1/4 c  Chopped celery
1 lb White navy beans
1/4 ts Salt
1/8 ts Cayenne
8 c  Water
1    Bay leaf
Meats:
1/4 c  Flour
1/4 c  Oil
1 c  Chopped onions
1/2 c  Celery
1/2 c  Chopped bell peppers
1/2 c  Chopped carrots
1/2 ts Salt
1/8 ts Cayenne
4    Thinly-cut venison , about 4
To 5 ounces each
1 lb Andouille sausage links, cut
Into 6 equal portions
2 c  Chicken broth
1 lb Chorizo, cut into 2-inch
Pieces
1 ts Essence of Emeril
Gratin:
3/4 c  Dried fine bread crumbs
1/2 c  Grated Parmesan Cheese
3 tb Chopped parsley
1 ts Essence of Emeril
2 tb Olive oil
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F.

For the beans, in a large saucepan, melt the butter over high heat and
saute the onions and celery for 3 to 4 minutes, or until they are
slightly wilted.  Add the beans, salt, cayenne, water and bay leaf
and bring to a boil.  Reduce heat to medium-low and cook until beans
are tender and most of the water is absorbed, about 2 hours.

For the meats, in a large oven-proof skillet, over medium-high heat,
combine the flour and oil.

Stirring constantly, make a medium brown roux.  Add the onions,
celery, bell peppers, carrots, salt and cayenne.  Stirring
constantly, cook for 3 to 4 minutes or until vegetables are slightly
wilted. Lay the venison on top of the roux-vegetables mixture and
cook for 2 minutes on each side. Add the sausages and cook for 2 to 3
minutes on each side. Add the chicken broth and stir the mixture
until the roux and broth are combined and mixture thickens.  Scrape
the bottom and sides of the pot to loosen any brown particles. Bring
to a boil. Add the beans and reduce heat to medium-low and cook for
30 minutes.

For the Gratin:  In a mixing bowl, combine the bread crumbs, cheese,
parsley, Essence and olive oil.  Mix well.  When the bean-meat
mixture is cooked, spoon the gratin evenly over the top and bake for
10 minutes or until lightly browned.

Spoon a serving of the mixture from the pan onto a plate and garnish
with Essence, chopped chives and crusty bread.

Beans:

