Title: Warm Red Cabbage Salad With Pancetta And Ricotta Salata
Categories:
Yield: 6 servings
MMMMM----------------------JOHN ASH #JA9767---------------------------
12    Very thinly sliced rounds of
Pancetta
2 tb Minced shallots or green
Onions
1/3 c  Raspberry or red wine
Vinegar
2 tb Honey (or to taste)
1/3 c  Olive oil
Salt and pepper
1 1/4 lb Red cabbage, cored and
Finely shredded
1/4 lb Ricotta salata or feta cut
Into matchstick shapes
Garnish: Fresh watercress or other young savory greens such as
mustard, mizuna or arugula.

In a large skillet, carefully saute the pancetta rounds over moderate
heat until they just begin to firm and color, 3 to 4 minutes total.
Do in batches, if necessary. Remove and place on paper towels to
drain. Add the shallots, vinegar, honey and olive oil to the pan and
season to taste with salt and pepper.

Place pan over high heat and bring mixture to a boil. Add cabbage and
toss for 2 to 3 minutes to warm through and slightly wilt cabbage. Be
careful not to overcook cabbage should still be crunchy. Arrange on
warm plates drizzling any cooking juices evenly over all. Place the
rounds of pancetta and slivers of cheese attractively around and
serve immediately with a garnish of watercress leaves if desired.

Wine recommendation: The vinegar could be a problem here but the honey
helps balance it. The salad would go well with a fruity chilled lower
alcohol wine such as Gamay or White Zinfandel.

Pancetta is the delicious cured unsmoked Italian bacon which is sold
in roll form at good meat markets and delicatessens. It has a
wonderful flavor and is worth seeking out. In Italy, good pancetta is
often eaten raw. While we don't recommend that here, be careful not
to overcook pancetta. Unlike regular bacon, it should be cooked just
until it begins to color, not cooked crisp. This is a beautiful salad
when you cook red cabbage with vinegar, it turns a lovely almost
fluorescent red!

Nutritional information per serving:  xx calories, xx gm protein, xxx
mg cholesterol, xx gm carbohydrate, xxx mg sodium, x gm fiber, xx gm
fat (x gm sat, x gm mono, x gm poly), x mg iron, xx mg calcium, xx%
of calories from fat.

Brought to you by MMCONV and Sylvia Steiger, SylviaRN (at) compuserve
(dot) com (change characters as needed, this is to prevent bulk
E-mailers from capturing my address), moderator of GT Cookbook and
FringeNet Lowfat & Luscious echoes.  For breadmachine tips and mixes,
visit my homepage: http://ourworld.compuserve.com/homepages/SylviaRN

