Title: White Pan Bread
Categories: Live
Yield: 4 servings
2 c  Warm tap water, about 110
Degrees
2 1/2 ts (1 envelope) active dry
Yeast
5    To 5 1/2 cups unbleached,
All purpose flour
1 tb Salt
1 tb Sugar
5 tb Unsalted butter, melted, or
Vegetable oil
Oil 2 (8 1/2 by 4 1/2 by 2 1/2-inch) loaf pans. Whisk yeast into warm
water and set aside while preparing other ingredients.

To mix dough by hand, place 5 cups flour, salt and sugar in a mixing
bowl and stir in yeast mixture and melted butter. Continue to stir
until mixture forms a rough dough. Turn dough out onto a lightly
floured work surface and knead until smooth and elastic, about 5
minutes. If dough is excessively soft and sticky, add remaining flour
1 tablespoon at a time.

To mix dough in a heavy duty mixer, place flour, salt and sugar in a
mixer bowl, add yeast mixture and melted butter and mix on low speed
with dough hook for about 5 minutes, or until dough is smooth and
elastic. If dough is excessively soft and sticky, add remaining
flour, 1 tablespoon at a time.

To mix dough in food processor, place flour, salt and sugar in bowl
fitted with a metal blade. Pulse several times to mix. Add yeast
mixture and butter and pulse 8 to 10 times until dough forms a ball.
If dough is excessively soft and sticky, add remaining flour 1
tablespoon at a time, and pulse, until dough forms a coherent ball.
Let dough rest for 5 minutes, then run the machine continuously for
30 seconds.

Place dough in oiled bowl and turn to oil all surfaces. Cover bowl
with plastic wrap and allow dough to rise until double in bulk, about
1 hour. Turn risen dough out onto a lightly floured work surface (you
may need the help of a scraper). Deflate dough and divide into two
equal pieces. To form loaf, make sure the surface is free of excess
flour, then stretch dough into rectangle. Fold in short ends of dough
until it is approximately the length of the pan, then fold the far
long edge over to the middle. Fold over the other long side and
compress to form a tight cylinder. Place the loaf in the pan, seam
side down. Cover the pan with plastic wrap. Repeat with the second
piece of dough. Allow to rise until doubled. When loaves are almost
doubled, preheat oven to 400 degrees and set rack at middle level.
When loaves are completely risen, place in oven and bake for 30
minutes or until the loaves are golden brown and firm and the
internal temperature is about 210 degrees. Unmold loaves to a rack to
cool on their sides.

COOKING LIVE SHOW #CL8924

All recipes courtesy of Nick Malgieri

