Title: White And Dark Chocolate Dogwood Bark
Categories: Baker
Yield: 4 servings
3 c  Pecan halves
6 oz White chocolate, chopped
Into 1/4-inch pieces
12 oz Semisweet chocolate, chopped
Into 1/4-inch pieces
Preheat the oven to 325 degrees . Toast the pecans on a baking sheet
in the preheated oven for 8 minutes. remove the nuts from the oven
and set aside to cool at room temperature until needed.

Heat 1-inch of water in the bottom half of a double boiler over medium
heat. With the heat on, place the white chocolate in the top half of
the double boiler. Use a rubber spatula to stir the chocolate until
completely melted and smooth, about 4 minutes. Transfer the melted
chocolate to a 1-quart bowl and set aside. Thoroughly wash and dry
the top half of the double boiler.

Heat 1 inch of water in the bottom half of a double boiler over medium
heat. With the heat on, place the semisweet chocolate in the top half
of the double boiler. Use a rubber spatula to stir the chocolate until
completely melted and smooth, about 6 minutes. Transfer the melted
chocolate to a 4-quart bowl. Allow the chocolate to stand at room
temperature for 5 minutes before proceeding. Add the pecans to the
bowl of melted semisweet chocolate. Use a rubber spatula to fold in
the pecans until combined. Pour the chocolate pecan mixture onto a
nonstick baking sheet with sides and use a rubber spatula to spread
evenly. drizzle the white chocolate, one tablespoon at a time, over
the entire surface of the chocolate pecan mixture.

Use a rubber spatula to spread and blend the white chocolate into the
surface of the chocolate pecan mixture creating a marbleized effect
(be careful not to overblend which would diminish the marbleized
effect). Allow the mixture to cool at room temperature for 30
minutes. Cover the baking sheet with plastic wrap and refrigerate
until the bark is hard, about 1 hour. Remove the baking sheet from
the refrigerator and transfer the bark to a cutting board. Use a
cook's knife to cut the bark into irregular pieces. Refrigerate in a
tightly sealed plastic container until ready to use.

BAKERS' DOZEN MARCEL DESAULNIERS SHOW #BD1A23

