Title: Chicken and Andouille Gumbo
Categories: Cajun, Soups/stews
Yield: 15 servings
1 ea Chicken; cut up or boned
1 c  Flour
2 c  Celery; chopped
3 ts Garlic; chopped
1 x  Salt
2 c  Green onion; chopped
1 x  Cream sherry
1 c  Oil
1 1/2 lb Andouille sausage; or kielb
3 3/4 c  Onions; chopped
2 c  Green pepper; chopped
8 1/2 c  Chicken stock
1 x  Cayenne pepper
1 x  File
1 x  Cooked rice
Season and brown chicken in oil (lard, bacon drippings) over med-hi heat.
Add sausage (cut in 1/4" rounds) to pot and saute with chicken. Remove both
from pot. Make roux with equal parts of oil and flour to desired color (I
make a dark chestnut color). Add onions, celery, green pepper, and later
garlic to roux, stir continuously until vegetables reach desired
tenderness. Return chicken and sausage to pot and cook with vegetables,
continuing to stir frequently. Gradually stir in liquid and bring to boil.
Reduce to simmer and cook for an hour or more.  Season to taste.
Approximately 10 minutes before serving, add green onions. Gumbo may or may
not be served over rice.  Adding sherry at the table is also an option.
File may be placed on the table for individuals to add to their gumbo if
they wish.  1/4 to 1/2 tsp per serving is recommended. File - a fine green
powder that is young dried and ground sassafras leaves, used in gumbo for
flavor and thickening.  The word file means to twist or make threads. If
you put the file directly into the gumbo while it is cooking, that is what
you will end up with, a liquid that is rather stringy as you bring your
spoon out of the bowl. Ugh!  Do it right, let each person add their own at
the table. If making roux over very high heat, the oil you use must be free
of food particles to avoid burning. If you scorch your roux, even slightly,
while you are making it, throw it out, and start over again after you have
thoroughly cleaned the pot. When making an okra gumbo, add 4-6 cups of cut
okra to trinity, saute, and cook together with roux. (remember, the Cajun
cooking trinity is onions, celery and green pepper).
Courtesy of Shareware RECIPE CLIPPER 1.1

