Title: Paneer Basmati Pilaf--Paneer Pulao
Categories: India, Rice/grains
Yield: 8 servings
2 tb Raisins
2    Bay leaves
1    Inch piece cinnamon stick
8    Whole cloves
1/2 ts Black peppercorns
3 c  Water
3/4 c  Canned tomato sauce
2 ts Salt
Stephen Ceideburg
2 c  Basmati rice
8 oz Paneer (see recipe)
4 tb Light vegetable oil
1/2 c  Cauliflower florets
1 c  Diagonally sliced carrots
1 c  Chopped red or green bell
-pepper
2 tb Cashew halves
In the traditional version of this dish, the rice, paneer and vegetables
all cook together. I like the vegetables to remain crunchy, however, so I
cook them separately, then stir them into the rice toward the end of its
cooking time. Serve this subtle pilaf lamb chops or spicy stews.

Wash rice thoroughly. Place in a bowl, cover with water and let soak 15
minutes. Drain.

Cut paneer into cubes. Brush with 1/2 tablespoon of the oil and broil 2
minutes per side. Set aside.

Heat remaining oil in a Dutch oven over medium high heat. Add cauliflower,
carrots and peppers.

Stir-fry for 5 minutes, or until edges of peppers start to brown. Remove
with slotted spoon and set aside.

Reduce heat to medium. Add cashews and fry until light golden; remove and
set aside. Add raisins and fry until plump; remove.

Add whole spices to the pan. Stir and cook 1 minute.

Add rice, increase heat to medium-high, and stir fry until rice is well
coated with oil and begins to glisten, about 5 minutes. Add water, tomato
sauce and salt. Bring to a boil, then reduce heat to low, cover, and simmer
for 12 minutes. Uncover and gently stir in vegetables and paneer,

Cover and cook 5 minutes longer.

Remove from heat and let stand, covered, for 10 minutes,

Fluff rice gently with a fork and transfer to a serving dish. Garnish with
fried raisins and cashews.

PER SERVING: 365 calories, 11 g protein, 46 g carbohydrate, 15 g fat (6 g
saturated), cholesterol (not available), 716 mg sodium, 2 g fiber.

From an article by Laxmi Hiremath from the San Francisco Chronicle, 9/1/93.

