Title: West: Royal Lamb Chops Braised with Nuts and Saffron
Categories: India, Lamb
Yield: 2 servings
-cumin seeds (see note)
1/4 ts Ground mace
1/4 c  Water
3    Lamb rib chops, 4 ounces
-each, trimmed of all fat
1/2 c  Water
1/2 ts Saffron threads, dissolved
-in 2 tablespoons hot water
Salt (optional)
1/2 c  Peas, fresh or frozen
2 tb Minced fresh cilantro or
-parsley
Stephen Ceideburg
4 tb Unsalted butter
1/4 c  Sliced almonds
1/4 c  Slivered pistachios
6 lg Garlic cloves
1    One-inch piece fresh ginger
1 ts Coriander
5    Green cardamom pods,husked
1    Fresh hot green chile
1/4 ts Black peppercorns
5    Whole cloves
1/2 ts Royal cumin, or regular
This elegant entree is a specialty of Rajasthan, home of the Rajput
warriors.

Heat 2 tablespoons of the butter in a heavy pan over medium-high heat. Add
almonds and pistachios; cook, stirring, until light brown, about 4 minutes.
Remove with a slotted spoon and set aside.

Combine the garlic, ginger, coriander, cardamom, chili, peppercorns,
cloves, cumin, mace and water in a blender and blend to form a smooth
paste.

Arrange lamb in a large shallow dish. Rub the spice mixture over both sides
of lamb. Cover and refrigerate 30 minutes.

Heat remaining 2 tablespoons butter in a large, heavy skillet over
medium-high heat. Add lamb and brown well on both sides. Add 1/4 cup of the
water and bring to a boil. Reduce heat, cover, and simmer for 5 minutes.
Add remaining water; sprinkle in saffron. Cover and cook until lamb is
tender, about 10 minutes. Taste, and add salt, if needed. Stir in peas and
cook 5 minutes longer. Sauce should be very thick. Transfer lamb to a
heated platter. Stir sauce and pour over lamb. Top with fried nuts and
cilantro.

Note: Royal cumin (black cumin) or shahi jeera gets its name from the royal
Moghul dishes it was most used in. It is available at Indian markets.

PER SERVING: 640 calories, 35 g protein, 16 g carbohydrate, 50 g fat (22 g
saturated), 149 mg cholesterol, 131 mg sodium, 5 g fiber.

Laxmi Hiremath writing in the San Francisco Chronicle, 6/24/02.

