Title: About Dill
Categories: Information, Herbs/spice
Yield: 1 info
None
Most herbs are "either/or" - either their seeds are used as a
seasoning or their leaves are. Dill is unusual in that both its seeds
and its leaves can be used in cooking. The seeds lend a strong, tangy
flavor to pickles, soups, and specialty breads, while the leaves
(also used in pickling) contribute a pleasant savor to sauces,
salads, potatoes, and fish.

Dill's most familiar association is with pickles, usually cucumber
pickles. Dill vinegar, used in making pickles, is easy to make at
home. Just pick enough fresh dill leaves and tender side stalks to
loosely fill a one-quart jar. Rinse and pat them dry. Stuff the dill
into the jar and cover with vinegar. Use cider vinegar if you're
pickling green beans or cucumbers, but if you plan to pickle
cauliflower, use a clear vinegar so as not to darken the white
florets. cover the jar loosely and set in a sunny spot for about a
week, shaking it daily. Strain the vinegar into a clean bottle and
seal it.

Fresh dill weed is also used to make gravlak, a Scandinavian
specialty of salmon cured with dill, cracked pepper, sugar, and salt.
When grilling salmon, you can wrap the fillets in aluminum foil with
a few sprigs of dill and a little butter; the fish is delectable, and
if you open the packets carefully, there's a spoonful or two of sauce
to go with a side dish of steamed rice or boiled potatoes. Also, try
a thin white sauce flavored with dill as a delicious alternative to
mint sauce for lamb. Remember that heat diminishes dill's flavor, so
add it to hot dished just before serving.

Although dill transplants poorly, it is easily raised from seed
scattered where you want the plants to grown. In the spring, just
loosen the soil in a sunny spot, sow the seed, and cover lightly.
Germination occurs within a week, and you can begin using snippets
and thinnings soon after. Plants mature in a bout 6 weeks and can
grown as tall as 3 feet. Make several sowings, at about 2-week
intervals, to ensure a constant supply of tender, tasty leaves. Once
the plants begin to blossom, their leaves yellow with age and are
less flavorful. Allow some plants to mature in order to harvest the
seed. Some ripe seeds will fall to the ground as self-sown seedling.

Dill's fresh flavor fades when dried; freezing is a better way to
preserve its taste. Rinse the leaves, pat dry, divide into
recipe-sized units, seal in plastic wrap, and freeze until needed.
For easy retrieval, staple several packets to a sheet of cardboard
and label it. This simplifies their recovery; otherwise, individual
packets tend to disappear in the freezer.

Where space doesn't permit the cultivation of the fresh herb, you can
purchase it. Young plant with their roots washed free of soil, are
commonly found in the produce section of most supermarkets. Stand
them upright in a jar of water and the leaves will remain fresh for a
considerable period.

Fine Cooking
April-May 1995
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   11-07-95

