Title: Additional Basic Canning Equipment
Categories: Information, Can/preserv
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM------------------OTHER CANNING EQUIPMENT-----------------------
The other equipment you'll need for canning is mostly equipment you
already have on hand. The following items are essential.

1. a wide mouth funnel and a ladle with a pouring lip make jar
filling neat and easy. Many funnels sit down 1/2 inch inside the jar,
so in some instances you can use the bottom for a head space guide.

2. A large preserving kettle, saucepan, or pot will be needed for
most hot packed foods. Don't use iron, copper, brass, aluminum,
galvanized zinc, or tin pans, they may discolor food or cause bad
flavors.

3. Spoons will be needed for stirring, spooning, and packing. Use
wooden spoons for stirring, slotted spoons for lifting, and smaller
spoons for filling. Accurate measuring spoons are essential.

4. Knives are a necessity. A sharp chopping knife or chef's knife and
a good paring knife will handle most tasks.

5. Kitchen scissors and a vegetable peeler will come in handy for many
jobs.

6. Long handled tongs and/or special jar lifters are not expensive,
and they are very helpful for taking jars in and out of boiling
water. Don't try to manage without these helpers.

7. Measuring equipment should include both dry (metal) and liquid
(glass) measuring cups. It's handy to have a full set; 1/4, 1/3, 1/2,
and 1 cup, dry measures along with a 2 cup measurer. A set of 1 cup,
1 pint, and 1 quart liquid measurers will simplify canning. Household
scales that can weigh from 1/4 lb (4 ounces) up to 10 to 25 pounds
will help you measure produce.

8. A timer saves you from clock watching cooking and processing times.

9. A strainer or colander helps hold vegetables after they have been
washed or rinsed, and may also be necessary for draining.

10. A teakettle or large saucepan will boil the extra water you may
need to cover jars in a boiling water bath, to fill a pressure
canner, or to cover vegetables in jars.

11. Hot pads, oven mitts, wire cooling racks, or folded dish towels
protect your hands and counter tops from the hot jars. Some canners
keep a pair of old cotton gloves clean and at hand to wear while
filling and sealing hot jars.

12. A non metal spatula or tool with a slim handle, such as a rubber
spatula, wooden spoon, specially made plastic bubble freer, or even a
plastic knife, is needed to run down along the insides of filled jars
to release air bubbles. Metal knives or spatulas could nick the jars.

13. A stiff brush will help you get vegetables really clean. And
you'll need a sink or large dish pan for rinsing.

14. A food chopper, grinder, food mill, shredder, or blender or food
processor may be helpful for some pickle and relish recipes.

15. A crock is needed in which to ferment some pickles and
sauerkraut. Be sure the crock is clean, unchipped, and uncracked.
Brand new clean plastic buckets can be used in place of crocks. You
may also need a large mixing bowl, new and clean plastic dish pan,
unchipped enamel or stainless steel bowl, or another large container
for short term brining of some pickles.

16. Labels help you keep track of the type of food and when it was
canned.

17. Cheesecloth helps to hold together the whole spices often used in
pickling. And a cheesecloth lining can turn a colander into a
strainer.

Source: Vegetable Gardening Encyclopedia Typos by Dorothy Flatman 1995
Submitted By DOROTHY FLATMAN   On   10-04-95

