Title: All About Chocolate - Different Types
Categories: Chocolate, Information
Yield: 1 servings
-are packed eight to a
-carton.  Used for all
Kinds of baking.
SEMISWEET CHOCOLATE is
-unsweetened chocolate
-blended with sugar,
UNSWEETENED CHOCOLATE OR
-BAKING CHOCOLATE  is the
-basic chocolate from
Which all other products
-are made.  It's pure
-"chocolate liquor" molded
Into 1 ounce blocks which
additional cocoa butter and flavorings.  It's also molded into 1 ounce
blocks and packed eight to a carton. Used in baking, too. SEMISWEET
CHOCOLATE PIECES, also called bits or chips, are a blend of
unsweetened chocolate, cugar and cocoa butter, specially formulate to
hold their shape softly when baked. SWEET COOKING CHOCOLATE is
similar to semisweet chocolate, but it contains a higher proportion
of sugar. Packaged in 4 ounce bars and used in baking. Also called
German sweet chocolate, LIQUID OR PREMELTED BAKING CHOCOLATE is an
unsweetened liquid product with a cocoa base packaged in 1 ounce
packets.  It is used in place of melted unsweetened chocolate in
baking. MILK CHOCOLATE is sweet chocolate with milk added and comes
in the familiar candy bar. CHOCOLATE SYRUP is a combination of cocoa,
sugar, corn syrup and flavoring. It is used in baking, beverages and
as an ice cream topping. Available in 5-1/2 and 16 ounce cans. MILK
CHOCOLATE FUDGE TOPPING is like chocolate syrup, but has added milk,
cream or butter. It is used only as a dessert topping. BAKING COCOA
is unsweetened chocolate with varying amounts of cocoa butter
removed.  Regular cocoa contains about 16% cocoa butter.  Dutch
processed cocoa with about the same cocoa butter content has been
treated with an alkali and has a stronger flavor and darker color.
It's used in baking and making beverages. INSTANT COCOA is a blend of
cocoa, sugar and other flavorings.  It is used in beverages because
it dissolves quickly. This should not be used in a recipe that
requires baking cocoa unless the recipe specifies "instant cocoa".
CHOCOLATE SUBSTITUTES, such as chocolate flavored chips, do not
contain chocolate liquor. They have a cocoa base to which vegetable
fats are added. So even though they are flavored to taste like
chocolate, they technically are not. WHITE CHOCOLATE - this is called
"the chocolate that isn't".  The cacao mass which gives chocolate
it's distinctive brown color and deep flavor does not go into white
chocolate. Because of the absence of chocolate liquor, it doesn't
meet the United States Food and Drug Administration standards for
chocolate manufacture. It may be made with vegetable fats instead of
cocoa butter and tinted with vegetable coloring and it contains added
flavors. Origin: Farm Journal's Choice Chocolate Recipes Shared by:
Sharon Stevens

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   09-28-95

