Title: Baked Macaroni With Zucchini & Three Cheeses
Categories: Casseroles, Main dish, Vegetarian, Pasta/rice
Yield: 6 servings
1 qt Milk
1 ts Salt
1/4 ts Nutmeg
1/2 c  Sour cream
1 ts Worcestershire sauce
dr Tabasco sauce
1 1/2 c  Swiss cheese -- grated
1 1/2 c  Cheddar cheese -- grated
1/2 c  Parmesan cheese -- grated
1 lb Macaroni
6 tb Unsalted butter
1 tb Olive oil
2 md Zucchini -- thinly sliced
1 1/2 c  Sliced mushrooms
1 lg Onion -- coarsely chopped
1 md Red bell pepper
2    Cloves garlic -- minced
1/4 c  Flour
Preheat the oven to 400.  Cook the macaroni in a large pot of boiling
salted water just until al dente, about 8 minutes.  Drain, rinse
under cold water, and drain again.  Set aside.  Meanwhile, heat 2
tbsp of the butter with the olive oil in a large skillet over medium
high heat.  Add the zucchini and the mushrooms and saute, tossing
occasionally, for 5 minutes. Transfer to a plate; set aside.  Add 3
tbsp of the butter to the skillet and lower the heat to medium.  Add
the onion, red pepper, and garlic and saute, tossing occasionally,
until the vegetables are softened but not brown, about 8 minutes.
Sprinkle the vegetables in the skillet with the flour and stir with a
wooden spoon.  If the mixture is too dry to stir, add a bit more
butter.  Cook until the flour is opaque, about 4 minutes. Add the
milk to the skillet and bring to a boil, stirring occasionally. Add
the salt and nutmeg and simmer the sauce 5 minutes. Remove the sauce
from the heat and stir in the sour cream, worcestershire, and
tabasco. Check seasonings.  In a large mixing bowl or the pot used to
cook the macaroni toss together the drained macaroni, reserved
zucchini mixture and the sauce.  Combine the cheddar and swiss
cheeses; set aside 1/4 cup of this mixture.  Add the grated cheese
mixture to the macaroni, stirring gently to combine thoroughly and
transfer to a buttered 9 x 13 pan. Combine the reserved 1/4 cup
cheese with the parmesan; scatter this mixture over the macaroni and
dot with the remaining tbsp of butter.  Bake until crusty, about 45
minutes.  Serve immediately.

: From the Farmers Market Cookbook
Recipe By

Date: 10-22-95 (21:42) (159)
From: Meg Antczak
Fido: Cooking

