Title: Basic Steps For Boiling Water Bath Canning B
Categories: Information, Can/preserv
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM-----------------BOILING WATER BATH CANNING----------------------
-continued
10. As each jar is filled, place it in the canner. Arrange the jars
on the rack so that they don't touch one another or bump against the
side of the canner. Add hot water to cover the jars with one or two
inches of water.

11. Cover the canner, and, when water returns to a full, rolling boil,
begin timing for processing. Adjust heat during the processing so
that the water boils gently but steadily. If the processing time is
over 10 minutes, you may need to add additional boiling water to keep
the jars covered. If you live above 1,000 feet above sea level,
you'll need to make adjustments in the processing time according to
the Altitude Adjustment for Boiling Water Bath Canner chart.

12. When the processing time is up, turn off the heat and carefully
lift the jars STRAIGHT UP, DO NOT TIP, out of the canner. Place the
jars several inches apart on a folded towel or rack that is in an out
of the way, draft free place. Don't tighten bands after processing.

13. Let the jars cool, undisturbed, for at least 12 hours. You will
hear a light pinging sounds as the jars seal as they cool. Don't
cover the jars while they are cooling.

14. When the food in the jars is completely cool, remove the screw
bands and check the seals. The lids should be depressed and, when the
jar is tipped, there should be no leakage. If the center of the lid
can be pushed down and comes back up, or if there are any leaks, use
the food immediately (store it in the refrigerator). Or, pour it into
another clean, hot jar, seal with a new lid, put the screw band on,
and reprocess.

15. Wipe the jars with a clean, damp cloth, then label clearly with
the contents, date, batch (if you do more than one a day), hot or
cold pack method, seasoning, and/or special ingredients or
information.

16. Be sure to remove the screw bands, if they are left on, they
could rust in place. To remove stuck screw bands, wring out a cloth
in hot water, then wrap it around the band for a minute or two to
help loosen it. Clean and dry the bands and store them in a sealed
plastic bag in a dry place.

17. Store the jars in a cool, dark, dry place where they won't
freeze. You can put jars in the boxes they came in to protect them
from light.

18. Before using, check for signs of spoilage. If you notice bulging
or unsealed lids, spurting liquid, mold, off odor, or slimy food, do
not use. Discard the food where humans and animals can't get to it.
You can salvage the jars, however. Wash them thoroughly, rinse, and
then boil for 15 minutes.

19. As a further precaution, you may want to heat home canned foods to
boiling, cover, and boil 15 to 20 minutes more. If the food foams,
smells bad, or shows other signs of spoilage, discard it.

Source: Vegetable Gardening Encyclopedia Typos by Dorothy Flatman 1995
Submitted By DOROTHY FLATMAN   On   10-04-95

