Title: Basic Canning Techniques
Categories: Information, Can/preserv
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM----------------------BASIC TECHNIQUES---------------------------
Once you've learned the procedures and precautions of canning, it's
then just a matter of getting it all together. Always read through
any recipe before beginning to prepare it. Always check your recipe
to determine the number of jars you'll need. Buy the jars and lids
well in advance so you're sure of an ample supply. Check all jars by
eye and by feel for any cracks, nicks, or sharp edges, and check to
be sure screw bands are unbent and free from rust. Don't reuse lids
that have been used even once.

Next, wash and rise all the other equipment you'll need. Be sure
everything is in working order, especially the dial gauge in your
steam pressure canner, then assemble and prepare your ingredients.

Canning need not take hours and hours out of your day. you can
prepare and process food as it ripens in your garden, perhaps putting
away a canner full each day. You shouldn't prepare more food at one
time than will fill one group of jars in the canner anyway, so
organize canning to fit your schedule. Don't try to do anything else
while you're canning. Once you've started the process, you can't
stop; you must continue all the way through to the finish. If you
stop in the middle for some reason, food can begin to spoil, and
that's asking for trouble.

Canning takes ample work space, so plan ahead. You'll need: 1. Sink
room for washing and preparing food.
2. Counter space for sorting, chopping, or cutting.
3. Range space for cooking, processing, and heating water.
4. Additional counter space for cooling jars. A sturdy table, set
away from traffic and drafts, makes a good cooling area for jars.
5. Shelf space in a clean, cool, dark, dry storage area where food
will not freeze.

If you've canned before, take an inventory to see how much you should
put up this year. Take stock before you plan your garden, too, so
you'll know how much and what to plant to put up this season. A look
at what's left from last year will help you determine the size of
your crops. Be sure to move last year's jars to the front of the
shelf so they'll be used first.

Source: Vegetable Gardening Encyclopedia Typos by Dorothy Flatman 1995
Submitted By DOROTHY FLATMAN   On   10-04-95

