Title: Basic Raw Lamb and Bulgur
Categories: Meats, Main dish
Yield: 1 recipe
1 ts Salt or to taste
Pepper to taste
3/4 ts Syrian Mixed Spices or
1/2 ts Allspice and
1/2 ts Cinnamon
Juice of 1/2 lemon
3 tb Ice water
2 1/2 lb Boned leg of lamb
-from shank end
-trimmed, cut into cubes
1 lg Onion(s)
1 1/2 c  #1 fine bulgur
1 c  Warm water
1/2 ts Paprika
1/8 ts Cayenne
In the bowl of a food processor, chop the lamb finely in two batches.
There will be approximately 5 cups total. Transfer the chopped lamb
to a large bowl. Take off 1 cup of the lamb and wrap it, keeping it
refrigerated for the Basic Filling Recipe. Place the onion in the
food processor and process until very fine. Transfer it to the bowl
with the lamb.

Put the bulgur in a small bowl and stir in the cup of warm water. Let
the bulgur soak for 15 minutes. It should only be damp enough to
allow it to absorb the meat juices when they are combined. There will
be about 4 cups of soaked bulgur. Then add the soaked bulgur to the
large bowl along with the paprika, cayenne, salt and pepper, Syrian
Mixed Spices and the lemon juice. Mix to combine, then divide the
mixture in half and return one half to the food processor, adding
about 1« tablespoons of the ice water and processing until a smooth
mixture is formed.

Repeat in the same manner with the remaining mixture, then wet your
hands and knead both batches together in a bowl. Cover the bowl with
plastic wrap and set aside for 15 minutes to let the bulgur absorb
the meat juices.

Variation #1: To serve 6-8 people use « the basic recipe. Line a
platter with romaine lettuce. Mound the raw lamb and grain mixture on
the lettuce and press a pattern on the surface of the meat with the
tines of a fork. Drizzle with olive oil and surround it with lemon
wedges for sprinkling over the meat. The lettuce leaves are used as
scoops.

Variation #2: To serve 6-8 people, use « the basic recipe. Wet your
hands and scoop up about 1 tbs of the raw lamb and bulgur mixture at
a time and roll it into cigar-like shapes. Mix 2 tbs parsley and ¬
cup finely minced scallions. Dip the rolls into the parsley-scallion
mixture and then roll them in a small leaf of romaine lettuce to
enclose them. Eat them with your fingers.

Variation #3: To serve 4-6 people, use ¬ of the basic recipe. Pinch
off olive-sized pieces of the raw lamb and bulgur mixture and poach
them in six cups of  hot chicken broth over medium heat for 5
minutes. Divide into portions and serve as miniature meat dumplings
with the broth.

Variation #4: To serve 4-6 people, use « the basic recipe. To prepare
kufte kebabs, oil six metal skewers and form the basic  raw lamb and
bulgur mixture around the skewers. Brush them with melted butter or
olive oil and grill or broil them, turning frequently, for about 3
minutes on each side. Slip them off the skewers with a piece of pita
bread as a holder.

The Versatile Grain
and the
Elegant Bean
by Sheryl and Mel London
ISBN 0-671-76106-4
pg 73-74
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   10-17-95

