Title: Basic Freezing Preparation Equipment
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM-------------------OTHER BASIC EQUIPMENT------------------------
Besides the freezer, the basic equipment for freezing consists of
whatever kitchen implements you'll need to prepare the food for
packaging. Remember that it's essential to keep equipment, work area,
and hands clean. To freeze vegetables successfully you will need:

A blancher; a large pot, with a cover and a perforated insert or
basket insert for lifting vegetables out of the boiling water. You
can buy one in the housewares section of most stores, or you can make
your own from a large 6 to 8 quart pot with a cover and something (a
colander, sieve, deep frying basket, or cheesecloth bag) to lift the
vegetables from the boiling water. When you aren't using the blancher
for freezing vegetables, you can use it as a spaghetti cooker,
steamer, or even a deep fat fryer.

Rigid freezer containers with airtight lids for liquid foods: plastic
freezer containers; freezer cans or jars with wide mouths.

Bags: plastic storage bags; heavy duty plastic bags; or boilable
pouches with something to twist, tie, or zip them closed if they
don't already come with it.

Shallow tray, cookie sheet, or jelly roll pan for tray freezing.

Additional heavy duty plastic wrap or heavy duty aluminum foil.

Sharp paring knife

Chopping knife

Colander, sieve, strainer, or paper towels.

Stiff vegetable scrubbing brush.

Teakettle for extra boiling water.

Ricer, food mill, or blender for mashing or pureeing.

Freezer tape to seal wrapped foods and to make labels.

Grease pencil, felt tip marker, or pressure sensitive labels for
labeling packages.

Choose vegetables that are tender, ripe but just barely ready to eat,
and just as fresh as possible. Slightly under mature vegetables are
better for freezing than those that are past their prime. For peak
flavor, rush vegetables from the garden to the freezer within two
hours. If you can't freeze vegetables within that time limit, cool
the vegetables quickly in ice water, drain well, and keep
refrigerated until ready to prepare for freezing.

Ice. Since cooling is an important part of preparing vegetables for
freezing, you need plenty of ice at hand to keep the cooling water
really cold. Estimate one pound of ice for each pound of vegetables
you're going to freeze. Keep a good store of ice in reserve for your
home freezing needs by filling heavy duty plastic bags with ice
cubes, or freezing water in empty milk cartons. Keep adding to your
stored ice from time to time, and you won't be caught short in the
midst of a big freezing job.

Butter and seasonings. Most vegetables are frozen without any
flavoring or seasoning added. However, if you want to freeze pouched
vegetables in butter sauce, we suggest a combination of butter, salt,
and herbs.

Source: Vegetable Gardening Encyclopedia Typos by Dorothy Flatman 1995
Submitted By DOROTHY FLATMAN   On   09-28-95

