Title: Canning Tomatoes
Categories: Vegetables
Yield: 1 servings
2 1/2 lb To 3-1/2 lb; Makes 1 quart
You'll need all the basic equipment for boiling water bath canning

2-1/2 to 3-1/2 lbs fresh tomatoes yields 1 quart canned
yields 10 quarts
yields 15 to 20 quarts
30 pounds (1 lug)
53 pounds (1 bushel)

1. Choose fresh, firm, red-ripe perfect tomatoes. Be sure they have no
black spots, cracks, or soft spots. Imperfections could harbor
microorganisms that are harmful.  Prepare only enough tomatoes at one
time for 1 canner full.

2. Organize and prepare equipment and work area.

3. In a large saucepan heat several inches of water to boiling. Use a
slotted spoon, wire basket, colander, or strainer, dip tomatoes into
water for 1 minute to loosen the skin. Then dip into cold water. Slip
off the skins.

4. Cut out the core. Leave the tomatoes whole or cut in half or
quarters.

5. COLD PACK: Pack the tomatoes into the jars, pressing each one
gently into jar so that juice rises around it keeping air bubbles
from forming. Fill jars only to within 1/2 inch of top to leave room
for expansion during processing without popping off lids.  By gently
pressing down the tomatoes as you go, you should create enough juice
so that you do not need to add any water to finish filling the jar.
If any air bubbles remain after jar is filled, use non-metal thin
tool down side of jar to release bubbles. HOT PACK: Cut the tomatoes
into quarters into a large pan. Heat them to boiling and boil 5
minutes, stirring constantly. Pack into hot pint or quart jars to
within 1/2 inch of tops. If desired, season with 1/2 teaspoon salt
for pints, 1 teaspoon for quarts, or with 2 teaspoons of sugar salt
mixture. Run a slim, non metal tool down the inside of each jar to
release air bubbles. Add hot liquid to both cold and hot packed
tomatoes, if needed, to fill to within 1/2 inch of the tops.

7.Carefully wipe rim of jar with clean damp cloth to make sure it is
very clean before putting on lids and bands.

8. Put on lids and screw bands as manufacturer directs.

9. Process in a boiling water bath 35 minutes for cold packed pints
or 45 minutes for cold packed quarts. 10 minutes for hot packed
pints, or 15 minutes for hot packed quarts.

10. Follow basic steps for boiling water bath canning, 10 through 19.

Source: Vegetable Gardening Encyclopedia Typos by Dorothy Flatman 1995
Submitted By DOROTHY FLATMAN   On   10-09-95

