Title: Chicken Strudel
Categories: Poultry, Pastry
Yield: 8 servings
No Ingredients Found
Strudel dough, first cousin to phyllo and best known for it's use in
sweet pastries, is found in many savory Hungarian dishes, like this
one, where it's wrapped around chunks of chicken, melted cheese,
spinach and seasoned with white wine. 1 - 2 1/2 lb broiler-fryer 1/4
tsp salt 2 mdm onions 1/4 tsp pepper Water 1 egg 2 Tbsp oil About 1/4
lb phyllo (10 strudel leaves) 10 oz bag spinach, chopped, (2 c) 1/2 c
butter 1/2 lb (2 c) Muenster cheese, shredded 2/3 c dried bread
crumbs 2 Tbsp dry white wine 1/2 tsp paprika About 2 hrs. before
serving:

Rinse chicken, its giblets, and neck with running cold water. Place
chicken, breast-side down, in saucepot just lg enough to hold the
chicken (3 - 4 qt. size).  Add giblets, neck, 1 onion and 2 inches
water; over high heat, heat to boiling.  Reduce heat to low; cover
and simmer 35 min or until chicken is fork- tender. Remove chicken
and giblets to lg bowl; refrigerate 30 min or until easy to handle.
(Reserve chicken broth, neck and giblets for other uses.) Meanwhile,
chop remaining onion. In skillet over mdm heat, in hot oil, cook
onion 'til tender, stirring occasionally. Add spinach; cook until
wilted, about 3 min, stirring frequently. Remove skillet from heat;
stir in Muenster cheese, wine, salt, pepper and egg until blended;
set aside. Discard skin and bones from chicken; cut meat into 1/2
inch pieces. Add to spinach mixture in skillet; mix well. On wax
paper, place one sheet of phyllo.  (It should be 16" x 12" rectangle.
If necessary, trim or overlap sm pieces of phyllo to make it this
size.) Brush phyllo with some melted butter; Sprinkle with 1 Tbsp
bread crumbs. Continue layering, brushing each sheet of phyllo with
some melted butter and sprinkling every layer with 1 Tbsp bread
crumbs to make 4 more layers. Starting along a short side of phyllo,
evenly spoon half of chicken mixture in 2-inch wide strip, leaving a
1/2 inch border on three sides. From chicken- mixture side, roll
phyllo, jelly-roll fashion. Repeat with remaining phyllo, butter,
bread crumbs and chicken mixture to make a 2nd roll. Preheat oven to
375 degrees. Place rolls, seam-side down, 2 inches apart, on lg
cookie sheet.  Brush with remaining butter. With sharp knife,
diagonally cut just halfway thru phyllo layers on each roll to make
1-inch wide pieces.  Sprinkle rolls with paprika. Bake strudel 15 to
20 min, until golden. For easier slicing, cool strudel about 10 min
on cookie sheet on wire rack. To serve: Finish cutting strudel
through layers. Makes 8 main dish or 16 first-course servings. Jane -
San Jose

TO ALL  Submitted By CATHY NAGEL  SUBJ PHYLLO DOUGH    On   10-04-95

