Title: Chicken Lo Mein Loo
Categories: Poultry, Pasta/rice, Chinese
Yield: 2 servings
- (reconstituted Chinese
- ones are better but are
- quite expensive)
2 c  Chinese cabbage, shredded
- (can substitute regular
- cabbage, blanched)
2    Scallions, cut into
- matchsticks (green and
- white part both, no roots)
2 tb Soy sauce
1 ts Salt
1/2 ts MSG (substitute chicken
- bouillon granules)
1/4 lb Raw bean sprouts
Formatted by Manny Rothstein
1/2 lb Chinese egg noodles
- (dried, not fresh)
1 ts Sesame oil
1 ts Oil
2 oz Raw lean pork,in matchsticks
2 oz Raw lean beef, in matchbook
- cover sized pieces
2 oz Raw chicken, in small pieces
- of any which shape
2 oz Raw shelled shrimp
- (cooked will do)
2 ts Dry sherry
2 ts Cornstarch
4 tb Oil
2 oz Button mushrooms, sliced
Speaking of spaghetti, I gave a recital last Sunday, and my pianist
and I arrived at the hall (out of breath, hungry, dusty, tired) early
to warm up and try the piano out - but there was another function
going on, so we couldn't use the piano and thus had an hour to waste.
What to do? Luckily, there was one of those hole-in-the-wall Chinese
takeout places down the street (turned out to be darn good), so I had:

House special lo mein (this an adaptation of Joyce Chen's recipe) I
was served half of this as a "half order" for $4.65, and it was too
much, so I suppose it makes enough for about 3 as a main course

Bring a lot of water to the boil. Dump noodles in; turn heat to low.
Cook 3 minutes. Drain, toss with sesame oil and regular oil, set
aside.

In 4 separate dishes, combine each of the meats with 1/2 t sherry and
1/2 t cornstarch.

Heat the 4 T oil in a skillet or wok to high. Add meats in this order,
stirring for a few seconds between each addition: pork, beef, chicken,
shrimp. As soon as you've added and tossed the shrimp, add the
mushrooms and cabbage. Cook until cabbage is wilted. Add scallions,
soy, salt, and MSG. Stir. Add the noodles and the bean sprouts, and
stir-cook for 3 min. Serve hot on a warm platter.

Date: 05-24-95, From: MICHAEL LOO * Origin: Lost in the SuperMarket -
Peabody, MA - (508) 531-8416 (1:330/175)
Submitted By MANNY ROTHSTEIN   On   10-18-95

