Title: Choosing a Melon
Categories: Information, Fruit
Yield: 1 info
None
Choosing a ripe melon: To make the best choice, you need to know two
main facts about the type of melon:

~ Is its rind thick and hard or thin? Cantaloupes, muskmelons, and
honeydews all have thin skins and are generally consumed shortly after
harvest. Hard-rind melons, such as casaba or Santa Claus, are long
keepers and may be stored for months under optimum conditions.

~ Is your melon a "slip" melon? A slip melon is one that, when ripe,
pulls readily away from its stem, leaving a clean scar at the base of
the melon. If picked before it's fully ripened, a slip melon will
have a tear in the rind. Slip melons may have either thick or thin
rinds. Nonslip melons must be cut from their vines. You'll find them
in the market with a bit of the stem attached.

Once you've purchased a ripe melon, refrigerate it until ready to
eat. Some melons seem to be at their best when eaten near room
temperature, only slightly cook, since smell is part of taste
perception and chilling retards the release of the fragrant, volatile
oils.

There are countless varieties of melons to choose from. Regardless of
what kind of melon you choose, here are some general guidelines to
keep in mind to make sure you're getting a good one.

~ Overall, a melon should be hard, with no soft spots.

~ A melon should be heavy for its size. Weigh a few that look about
the same size and choose the heaviest one.

~ A ripe, good-quality hard-skinned melon will give a hollow ring,
not a dull thud, when knocked, and the skin should be fully colored.

~ When choosing thin-skinned melons, smell the scar at the base of the
melon. The fragrance should be immediately noticeable, even if it's
only faint.

~ If there is a slip-scar, it should be hard and show no evidence of
mold, decay, or tearing.

~ If the melon is not a slip type, an ooze of sweet dew may be
apparent at the stem, indicating ripeness.

Fine Cooking
August-September 1995
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   11-07-95

