Title: Cowpeas in a 7-Allium Sauce
Categories: Vegetables, Side dish
Yield: 6 servings
12    Tiny pearl onion(s)
-blanched and peeled
2 ts Sugar
1/2 c  Dry white wine
1/4 c  Chicken stock plus
1/4 c  Extra chicken stock
-or water
-if needed to reheat
3 c  Cooked cowpeas
-or black-eyed peas
1 tb Red wine vinegar
1 tb Chives, minced
12 lg Garlic clove(s), unpeeled
3 lg Shallots, unpeeled
1 tb Olive oil
3    Sprigs thyme
3 tb Butter
1 md Leek, finely chopped
-incl 1" of green part
1 lg Red onion(s), finely chopped
4    To 5 scallions
-finely chopped
2 tb Parsley, minced
1/2 c  Light cream
Salt and pepper to taste
Preheat oven to 450øF. Place a piece of aluminum foil on a work
surface and put the garlic and shallots in the center. Trickle olive
oil over both to coat, then add the thyme. Fold the foil tightly and
roast for 40 minutes until the garlic and shallots are soft.

Meanwhile, melt 2 tbs butter in a medium-size skillet and saut‚ the
leeks, red onions and scallions over very low heat for 20 minutes.
stir frequently and do not brown. Set aside. When the garlic and
shallots are cooked, cool, then slip off skins. Discard the skins and
the thyme. Transfer the pulp to a medium-size bowl and mash with a
fork.

Return the reserved leek mixture to the heat, stir in the parsley,
garlic and shallot pur‚e and the cream. Season with salt and pepper
and turn off the heat.

In a small non-stick skillet, heat the remaining tablespoon of butter
and stir in the pearl onions. Sprinkle with the sugar and saut‚ over
medium-high heat for 2-3 minutes, shaking pan often. Add the wine and
chicken stock and bring to a boil. Lower heat, cover and simmer for
10-15 minutes, or until the onions are tender. Stir the  onion
mixture into the larger skillet, along with the cooked cowpeas and
vinegar. Sprinkle with the chives and serve hot, or cover with
aluminum foil and heat in the oven just before serving. Add ¬ cup of
chicken stock or water if the beans are to be reheated later, so they
will not be too dry.

The Versatile Grain
and the
Elegant Bean
by Sheryl and Mel London
ISBN 0-671-76106-4
pg 418
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   10-17-95

