Title: Eating Healthy
Categories: Healthy, Information
Yield: 2 servings
No Ingredients Found
THE BASIC GOOD STUFF: A good balanced diet includes a selections of
vegetables, fruits, whole grain breads and cereals, low fat dairy
products, poultry, fish, lean meat, dry beans, and peas.  By eating a
variety of these products, you assure yourself of a healthy diet that
avoids too much fat, saturated fat, cholesterol, and salt, and is
high in fiber, starch, and protein.  The achieve the above goals, you
should think about eating more of the folowing foods. LOW-FAT MEAT,
POULTRY, AND FISH

Lean cuts of meat trimmed of fat (round tip roast, pork tenderloin,
loin lamb chop) poultry without skin, and fish cooked without
breading or fat added. LOW-FAT DAIRY PRODUCTS One percent or skim
milk, buttermilk, low fat or non fat yogurts, lower fat cheeses (part
skim ricotta, pot and farmer), ice milk, and sherbet. DRY BEANS AND
PEAS All beans, peas, and lentils - the dry forms are higher in
protein. WHOLE GRAIN PRODUCTS Breads, bagels, and English muffins
made from whole wheat, rye, bran, and corn flour or meal; whole grain
or bran cereals; whole wheat pasta; brown rice, and bulgur. FATS AND
OILS HIGH IN UNSATURATES Unsaturated vegetable oils (such as canola
oil, corn oil, cottonseed oil, olive oil, and soybean oil) and
margarine; reduced calorie mayonnaise and salad dressings. USE SMALL
AMOUNTS OF FAT AND FATTY FOODS There are numerous ways to cut down on
fat. Decrease portions of high fat foods such as rich desserts,
untrimmed and fatty types of meat, fried foods, and especially,
breaded foods. When you use margarine, mayonnaise, or salad dressing,
use half as much as usual. When you saute or stir fry, use only 1/2
tsp of fat per serving. USE LESS SATURATED FAT While reducing the
total consumption of fat, substitute unsaturated fats and oils for
saturated fat. Instead of butter, use margarine or vegetable oil. One
teaspoon of butter can be replaced with equal portions of margarine
or 3/4 tsp of vegetable oil in many recipes without affecting
quality.  Use poultry without skin and fish as a main meal as they
are usually lower in fat and saturated fat than most meats. USE LOW
FAT COOKING METHODS Bake, steam, broil, microwave, or boil foods
rather than fry.  Skim fat from soups and gravies. USE HERBS, SPICES,
AND OTHER FLAVORINGS For a different way to add flavour to meals, use
lemon juice, basil, chives, allspice, onion, and garlic in place of
fats and sodium. Origin: Household Hints + Formula's by Erik Bruun
Shared by: Sharon Stevens, Aug/95.

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   10-13-95

