Title: Fast-and-Savory Turkey
Categories: Main dish, Poultry, Holiday
Yield: 10 servings
1 lg Onion; sliced
1 ts Dried whole rosemary
1 c  Dry white wine
1/2 c  Brandy or cognac
1 1/2 c  Chicken broth
1/2 c  Tomato juice
1/4 c  Cornstarch
1/4 c  Whipping cream
1 ts Browning-and-seasoning sauce
Vegetable cooking spray
1 ea 10 to 12 pound turkey
2 ts Salt
2 ts Lemon-pepper seasoning
1 md Onion
Fresh parsley sprigs
1 ts Dried whole rosemary
1 ea Carrot; sliced
1 ea Celery stalk; sliced
Line a large roasting pan with heavy-duty aluminum foil, leaving 3
inches overhang on all sides.  Spray foil with vegetable cooking
spray. Set aside.
Remove giblets and neck from turkey; set aside.  Rinse turkey with
cold water; pat dry.  Sprinkle cavities with salt and lemon-pepper
seasoning. Place medium onion into neck cavity; fold wings under
back, and pull neck skin under wings.
Place a handful of parsley and 1 teaspoon rosemary into other
cavity. Tie ends of legs to tail with cord.  Place turkey in prepared
pan, breast side up; arrange carrot, celery, 1 large sliced onion, 1
teaspoon rosemary, and reserved giblets and neck around turkey.
Combine wine and brandy in a saucepan; cook over low heat ntil
thoroughly heated.  (Do not boil.)  Pour mixture into cavity and over
turkey.
Combine chicken broth and tomato juice in a saucepan; cook over
medium heat until thoroughly heated.  Pour mixture over turkey.
Insert meat thermometer into meaty part of thigh, making sure it does
not touch bone. Cover turkey with a sheet of heavy-duty aluminum
foil. Fold edges of top and bottom pieces of foil together, and crimp
edges to seal, making sure it is airtight.  (Do not let foil touch
turkey.) Bake at 425 degrees F for 1 hour on lowest rack of oven.
Remove roasting pan from oven, and cut top of foil lengthwise. Open
foil, folding sides back.  Reduce heat to 400 degrees F and bake
turkey 1 hour and 15 minutes or until meat thermometer registers 185
degrees F. (Do not baste turkey.)
Remove turkey;; strain drippings, reserving 4 cups.  Place 4 cups
drippings in a saucepan.  Combine cornstarch and whipping cream,
stirring until smooth.  Gradually stir cornstarch mixture into
drippings; bring to a boil, and cook 1 minute or until thickened,
stirring constantly. Stir in 1 teaspoon browning-and-seasoning sauce.
Serve gravy with turkey. Yield: 10 to 12 servings.

From Ursula Knaeusel of Georgia in December, 1987 "Southern Living"
Typos by Jeff Pruett
Submitted By JEFF PRUETT   On   10-18-95

