Title: Freezing Vegetables Overview
Categories: Information, Vegetables
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM--------------------FREEZING VEGETABLES-------------------------
Freezing foods is one of the fastest and simplest methods of food
preservation. It's easy to prepare food for the freezer and easy to
prepare food for the table from the freezer. Best of all, foods
preserved by freezing taste more like fresh than their canned or
dried counterparts, and they retain more color and nutritive value.

Almost all vegetables take well to freezing. In fact, some vegetables
shouldn't be preserved and stored by any other method. The list of
better frozen vegetables includes broccoli, Brussels sprouts, cabbage,
cauliflower, eggplant, mushrooms, parsnips, edible pod peas, pumpkins,
rutabagas and winter squash. The only vegetables that don't freeze
well are lettuce and other fresh greens for salads, and watery
vegetables like radishes and cucumbers.
Other than those, almost anything can be frozen. When you aren't sure
whether you'll like a certain vegetable frozen, try a sample batch of
just a few packages, bags, or containers. Freeze for a couple of
weeks, then taste it. If you hate it, not much has been lost.

Although the techniques are simple and easy, freezing is a more
expensive form of storage than canning. The freezer itself is an
investment, and it takes electricity to run it. But if you manage
your freezer wisely, it can still help you save on food costs.

Frozen vegetables can be stored a lot longer than many other foods,
but shouldn't be kept stored for more than 12 months. By keeping your
frozen foods in a constant state of turnover, the freezer space is
being given maximum use. To get the most value from your freezer, use
up the foods you've stored and replace them with others in season.
The higher the rate of turnover, the lower the cost per pound of food.

Keep a list near the freezer to indicate what you've used, what's
left, and what new foods you may be adding from time to time. By
keeping careful track of what you have and how long it's been in the
freezer, you'll be sure to use up all your frozen foods within the
recommended storage period.

Freezing is a simple method of food preservation and requires only a
few steps. Having selected good quality vegetables, then prepared and
packaged them for freezing, you can sit back and let cold
temperatures do the rest of the work.

Starting with the highest quality vegetables and other foods is the
single most important factor in guaranteeing the quality of your
frozen foods, but you must follow the directions for all freezing
procedures exactly. Select the most perfect foods, and always
exercise the strictest sanitary conditions and precautions when
handling them. you can never be too careful about properly packaging
and sealing foods for freezer storage.

If you follow freezing directions to the letter and keep food in a
well managed freezer, your frozen vegetables will be as delicious
when you serve them as when you preserved them.

Source: Vegetable Gardening Encyclopedia Typos by Dorothy Flatman 1995
Submitted By DOROTHY FLATMAN   On   09-28-95

