Title: French Canadian Saguenay Tourtiere
Categories: Pie/tart, French, Amerindian
Yield: 12 servings
-cups)
4 lb Potaotes, peeled and cut in
-1 inch cubes (about 8 cups)
5 ts Salt
Suet pastry
Boiling water
1 1/2 lb Stewing beef, cut in 1-1/2
-inch cubes
1 1/2 lb Shoulder or pork, cut in
-1-1/2 inch cubes
3 1/2 lb Chicken, boned and cut in
-bite sized pieces
2 lg Onions, chopped (about 2
Trim excess fat from beef and pork.  Combine all meat, onions and
potatoes in a large bowl.  Mix well.  Cover tightly and refrigerate
overnight. Sprinkle salt and pepper over meat mixture when you are
ready to complete the pie.  Mix well.  Heat oven to 325F.  Line
bottom and sides of a 10 inch black iron dutch oven or heavy
casserole, with a tight lid, with suet pastry rolled a little less
than 1/4 inch thick. Whatever you use must be about a 5 quart
capacity and have a tight fitting lid. (I find the easiest way to
line the pot is to roll a round to fit the bottom with a little to
turn up the sides, then to roll 3 strips 5 inches wide and fit them
around the sides, one at a time, sealing them to the bottom crust and
to each other firmly.)  Pile in the meat mixture (it should just fill
the pot - if there is a little too much for your pot, discard a few
of the potato pieces.)  Roll a round of pastry a little larger than
the top of the pot. Cut a large vent in the pastry. Add boiling water
to the meat mixture just until you can see it (keep the water below
the top of the mixture or it is sure to boil over.) Lay round of
pastry on top of pie and seal it well by turning it under the crust
that comes up the sides and pressing to the sides of the pot. Put lid
in place (It should press into the thick edge of pastry so it is
sealed tightly to the bottom of the pot.) Bake 4 hours. Remove lid of
pot and if top crust isn't well browned let it bake a few minutes
uncovered. (Removing lid is not easy as it sounds. It is so well
sealed that it takes a little patient prodding to get it loose. First
cut all around where the lid and bottom of pot join, then start
lifting carefully, slipping a knife up the edge of the lid to be sure
that pastry is loose all the way around.  The pie stays hot for a
long time so you don't have to leave this job until the last minute)
Serve by large spoonfuls make sure that everyone gets some of the
bottom crust. Serves 10-12. **NOTE** This pie was originally made
with wild birds and game. If you have some partridge and/or venison
in your freezer, use it in place of some of the meat we call for.  It
is a very filling pie and I find it serves 12. Origin: Yvonne
Snushall Shared by: Sharon Stevens

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   10-06-95

