Title: GF Brown Rice Bread
Categories: Breads
Yield: 3 loaves
2 tb Honey
1/4 c  Oil
1/4 c  Methocel (from health food
Store)
6 c  Brown rice flour
1 tb Salt
2 2/3 c  Tepid water
4 ts Active dry yeast
1/2 c  Warm water
The flour in this bread must be from short or medium grain rice, not
long grain rice.  Start this bread 12 - 18 hours before you want to
bake.

Mix the rice flour and the salt, and make a well in the middle.  Pour
in the water, mixing gradually from the center outward.  Beat
vigorously for ten minutes either by hand, with a wooden spoon, or
with an electric beater at medium speed, to smooth and aerate the
batter. Let the mixture stand at room temperature from 12 to 18 hours.

Dissolve the yeast in warm water.  Stir the yeast solution then the
honey and oil into the grain mixture and mix thoroughly by hand or
machine until completely smooth and uniform.  Add the methocel and
mix thoroughly again; the dough will become very stiff. (see below)

Spoon into three well greased 8 x 4 loaf pans.  Wet your fingers with
water or oil and smooth the tops.  Keep the loaves in a warm
(80degree) and humid place to rise, until the batter reaches the top
of the pans. Watch the surface of the dough and be ready to put the
bread into a preheated oven as soon as the first tiny pinholes appear
on the top. Bake at 350 degrees for about 45 or until done.  Allow to
cool thoroughly before slicing. Some tops:  If the dough was too
stiff, its surface will be full of holes before it can rise, and the
bread will be dense..  If it is too wet, it will rise up in a big
arch like wheat bread, but it will collapse. With a little practice
you will get a feeling for the proper consistency.

Do not try to substitute butter or shortening for the oil in this
recipe because they will affect the methocel function.

Store the bread in a plastic bag in the refrigerator and freeze the
extra two loaves until you need them as t;his bread tends to stale
quickly.

Methocel may be available at health food stores or from Ener G Foods
Inc PO Box 24723, Seattle Washington 98124-0723

Laurels Kitchen Bread Book == Courtesy of Dale & Gail Shipp, Columbia
Md. ==
Submitted By ROBERT MILES   On   10-04-95

