Title: Grain Soup
Categories: Soup/stew, Low cal/fat
Yield: 8 servings
2 md Potatoes, pref Yukon Gold
-finely diced
2    Bay leaves
1/4 ts Saffron threads soaked in
1 tb Hot water
1 ts Thyme, fresh or dried
12    Basil leaves
-thinly slivered
1/4 c  Flat-leaf parsley, chopped
8 c  Vegetable stock
-or as needed
Salt and pepper
1 c  Wheat berries
2    Zucchinis
2 tb Extra-virgin olive oil
1    Onion(s), finely diced
2    Garlic clove(s), minced
2    Carrots, finely diced
2    Stalks celery
-finely diced
1    Yellow bell pepper
-finely diced
1    Red bell pepper
-finely diced
1. Soak the wheat berries in a bowl with 4 cups warm water for at
least 2 hours. This can be done the night before.

2. Transfer the wheat berries with their soaking liquid to a large
saucepan. Simmer, covered, over medium heat for 1« hours, or until
tender. Add salt to taste after 1 after and water as necessary to
keep the grain covered by at least 1 inch. Drain the wheat berries
and set aside.

3. Meanwhile, cut the zucchinis in half lengthwise. Remove the core
(the part with the seeds; save the core for stock, if desired). Cut
the zucchini into fine dice.

4. Heat 1 tbs of the olive oil in a large heavy pot. Add the onion,
garlic, carrots, celery, diced zucchini, and bell peppers, and cook
over medium heat until soft but not brown, about 5 minutes. stirring
occasionally with a wooden spoon.

5. Add the wheat berries, potatoes, bay leaves, saffron, thyme, half
the basil, half the parsley, the stock and the salt and pepper and
bring the soup to a boil. Reduce the heat to medium and simmer the
soup, uncovered, until it is well flavored and the vegetables are
tender, about 20 minutes. Add stock as necessary - you may need
another 1-2 cups.

6. Before serving, stir in the remaining tbs of the olive oil and
correct the seasoning, adding salt, pepper, or thyme to taste.
Garnish with the remaining parsley and basil and serve at once.

High-Flavor, Low-Fat Vegetarian Cooking by Steven Raichlen pg 30
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   10-26-95

