Title: Grilled Quesadillas with Smoked Chicken - RHP
Categories: Vegetables, Poultry, Main dish
Yield: 8 servings
3 ea Poblano peppers; roasted,
-peeled, and cut into thin
-strips
1 ea Canned chipotle adobado
-(jalapeno)or more; pureed
3 c  Cooked black beans (below)
16 ea Flour tortillas
1 lb Chicken; smoked or grilled
-and diced
1 lb Monterey Jack cheese; grated
MMMMM------------------------BLACK BEANS-----------------------------
1 cl Garlic; minced
2 tb Ground cumin
Salt to taste
1 bn Fresh epazote (optional)
1 lb Dried black beans; picked
-over
1/4 c  Vegetable oil
2 lg Onions; diced
Note: Epazote is an annual herb with a camphor-like odor.  Might be
found at Latin American food markets, also called pazote or Jerusalem
oak pazote.

The Quesadillas:
Spread the pureed black beans on 8 of the tortillas and top with
the smoked chicken, Jack cheese, and poblano strips.  On the other 8
tortillas, spred the pureed chipootle.  Place these tortillas on top
of the others, chipotle side down.
Place the quesadillas on a preheated grill for a minute or so, and
then, without turning the quesadillas over, turn them at a 45-degree
angle for another minute or so, until there is a good criss-cross
pattern.  Then repeat the procedure for the other side.  Be careful
not to burn.  Once they are done, take them off the grill and cut
them into 6 to 8 wedges. Serve hot with tomatillo sauce and guacamole.

The Black Beans:
Soak the beans in cold water to cover for several hours or
overnight. [Try pressure-cooker.]  Heat the oil in a large saucepan
over low heat and cook the onions and garlic, stirring, for 5
minutes.  Add the beans and enough water to cover, the cumin, salt,
and epazote and bring to a boil. Reduce the heat to medium-low and
simmer until tender, about 2 hours, stirring occasionally and making
sure there is enough water to cover the beans.  Puree the beans in a
food processor (you may have to do this in batches).

From Reed Clemons of The Granite Cafe, in
_Red Hot Peppers_  by Jean Andrews, 1993
MacMillan Publishing  ISBN 0-02-502251-2    Typos by Jeff Pruett
Submitted By JEFF PRUETT   On   11-05-95

