Title: Grilling Vegetables
Categories: Information, Vegetables, Bbq/grill
Yield: 1 info
None
There's a lot of room for improvisation when cooking vegetables on the
grill. Tender, quick-cooking vegetables are the easiest to work with,
and they yield the most satisfying results because you can be sure
they'll cook thoroughly. For example, leeks develop wonderful pink
colors and sweet flavors, baby onions lined up on a skewer explode
and caramelize, and red onion rings tossed with olive oil and
rosemary are a delicious accompaniment to grilled chicken.

Since vegetables are virtually fat-free, they need to be brushed with
oil to prevent them from sticking to the grill. Use a good quality
olive oil, along with some fresh thyme, rosemary or oregano, and
plenty of salt and freshly ground black pepper.

There are three methods of coating vegetables with oil:
The simplest and neatest is to put the vegetables in a bowl,
drizzle with oil, season, and toss to coat.
:
:

You can put the vegetables on a tray and brush them with
:
lightly
with oil that's already seasoned.
:

For long, thin vegetables, such as asparagus and scallions,
:
pour a
bit of oil into the palms of your hands and rub each stalk to
lightly coat it.
:
:

Skewering vegetables makes it much easier to move them around and
turn them on the grill. Also, small vegetables won't fall through the
grill bars and into the fire. If you use bamboo skewers, soak them
first in water for about 20 minutes to keep the tips from burning.

For round vegetables, like button mushrooms or small onions, try
inserting two thin parallel skewers so the vegetables won't spin when
you turn them. A good tip for onion rounds is to insert a toothpick
or short skewer through the center to keep the rings together during
cooking.

Your fire should be medium hot; the coals should be covered with gray
ash but still have a red glow. Cook vegetables over direct heat, but
don't crowd them or they'll cook unevenly. If the vegetables are done
too soon push them off to the side and bunch them together. This
slows the cooking but keeps the vegetables moist and warm.

Vegetables are cooked properly when they're soft enough to be pierced
easily with a fork or the tip of a knife but still have some "bite" to
them.

Fine Cooking
August-September 1995
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   11-07-95

