Title: Handling A Fire In The Kitchen
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM-----------------PUTTING OUT A KITCHEN FIRE----------------------
Most kitchen fires are grease fires. Cooking oil is hot and can catch
fire without warning. Never leave a pan of oil or greasy foods alone.
It only takes seconds for a fire to break out.

Always have a pan lid nearby when you are cooking greasy foods or
with oil. If a fire occurs, put the pan lid onto the fire, carefully
slide the pan off the heat, but don't pick it up and move it. Let the
pan cool completely before taking off the lid. The lid cuts the
supply of oxygen the flames feed on, and the fire goes out.

NEVER, EVER douse a grease fire with water. It spreads the flames.

Baking soda also puts out grease fires. Keep a box handy, but not
directly over the stove; you don't want to have to reach over flames
to get to it.

For an oven fire, close the door, and turn the oven off. the fire
should extinguish on its own.

FIRES EXTINGUISHERS Fire extinguishers are a must for every household.
Extinguishers should be installed in plain view, away from your stove
and heating appliances. All fire extinguishers are labeled using
standard symbols for the classes of fires they put out. A red slash
through any of the symbols tells you the extinguisher can't be used
on that kind of a fire.

Many household fire extinguishers are labeled ABC and can be used on
all three classes of fire.
A is for ordinary combustibles
B is for flammable liquids, and
C is for electrical equipment.
Carefully read the instruction manual for your fire extinguisher.

COOKING SAFETY When cooking on top of the stove, turn the handles in
so pots and pans cannot be pulled off the stove by a child.

Pay attention to the clothing you wear when cooking. Full, fluffy
sleeves present greater risk than short, snug fitting sleeves. If
your clothes should catch on fire, STOP! Drop, cover your face with
your hands, and roll to put out the fire on your clothes.

Do not overload your electrical outlets. It could start a fire. All
electrical appliances and tools should have an Underwriter's
Laboratory testing label.

Do not turn on the dishwasher or other small kitchen appliances and
leave the house. Do not run the dishwasher and go to bed. If the
appliance malfunctions, it could catch fire.

Don't let any fire get out of control. Contact your local fire
department immediately if your pan lid, baking soda or fire
extinguisher won't squelch a fire.

USING A FIRE EXTINGUISHER: Remember the PASS-word

Pull the pin: This unlocks the operating lever and allows you to
discharge the extinguisher. Some extinguishers may have other lever
release mechanisms.

Aim low: Point the extinguisher nozzle or hose at the base of the
fire.

Squeeze the lever above the handle: This discharges the extinguishing
agent. Releasing the lever will stop the discharge. Some
extinguishers have a button instead of a lever.

Sweep from side to side: Moving carefully toward the fire, keep the
extinguisher aimed at the base of the fire and sweep back and forth
until the flames appear to be out. Watch the fire area. If the fire
re-ignites, repeat the process.

Source: National Fire Protection Association; published in the
Oregonian FoodDay by Cheri Swoboda of the Oregonian staff; Typos by
Dorothy Flatman 1995
Submitted By DOROTHY FLATMAN   On   10-04-95

