Title: Italian Sausage Pasta Roll-Ups
Categories: Italian, Pasta/rice, Meats
Yield: 6 servings
.  sheets; thawed and cut
.  along perforations
1    Spaghetti sauce; 30oz jar
1/3 c  Parmesan cheese; grated
1 1/4 lb Italian sausage
1 lg Onion; chopped
1 cn Alfredo sauce; 10oz
12    Precooked lasagna noodles;
.  or 4 precooked lasagna
Preheat the oven to 350øF.

Remove the casing from the sausage if necessary.  In a large skillet,
cook the sausage and onion over medium-high heat until the sausage is
browned; drain.  Cool slightly.  Stir in the alfredo sauce.  Place
about 3 Tbsp of the meat mixture on one end of each lasagna noodle;
roll up.

Spread half the spaghetti sauce in the bottom of an ungreased
12x8-inch (2-quart) baking dish.  Place the roll-ups, seam side down,
over the sauce in the dish, forming two rows of 6 roll-ups each.  Top
with the remaining spaghetti sauce.  Cover the baking dish with foil.

Bake at 350øF.  for about 35 to 40 minutes or until bubbly around the
edges.  Remove the foil; sprinkle with the Parmesan cheese.  Let stand
about 5 minutes before serving.

NOTE:  Twelve uncooked lasagna noodles can be substituted for the
frozen precooked lasagna strips or sheets.  Cook the noodles to the
desired doneness as directed on the package.

Nutritional Information: per serving: 370 calories, 14g protein, 21g
fat, 30g carbohydrates, 45mg cholesterol, 830mg sodium, 3g dietary
fiber

**  Pillsbury Classic Cookbooks - Country Casseroles & One-Dish Meals
** ** October 1995  -  #176  ** Posted by The WEE Scot -- paul
macGregor

Cook's Note:  Precooked Lasagna Noodles Precooked or ready-to-use
lasagna noodles make recipes calling for lasagna noodles easier than
ever. The noodles are fully cooked and then frozen. Look for them in
the frozen foods section of your grocery store. They come in strips
that look like traditional lasagna noodles or in sheets which can be
broken into strips.

The noodles can be used frozen or thawed (no boiling required), as in
this recipe.  To thaw, let them stand at room temperature for 10 to
20 minutes. Submitted By PAUL MACGREGOR   On   10-13-95

