Title: Kaiserschmarnn (Austria)
Categories: Desserts, Pcake/waffl, Aust/german
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM----------------K  A I S E R S C H M A R R N---------------------
In Austria, southern Germany, and Bohemia, a Kiaserschmarnn is a
unique dessert dish made from pancakes torn into large pieces and
tossed with sugar and raisins.  Melted butter and cinnamon are
sometimes added.

Many legends surround this dessert creation.  One of them is that
Emperor Franz Joseph, while hunting in the forest one day, lost his
way.  A farmer's wife took pity on him, offering him an
unsuccessfully baked pancake and thus kept him from starving.

According to another story, the dish was created in honor of Empress
Elizabeth ("Sissy"), who usually disliked dishes prepared with flour.
So the dessert was called Kaiserschmarnn (or "the Emperor's omelet"),
so that ingredients would be disguised.  Or it may be possible that
the name is a normal etymological variety of Kaserschmarnn
(Kaser-Senn), a word that originally meant cheesemaker.  Somewhere
along the line, the dessert became popular with the nobility and thus
became Kaiserschmarnn.

5 ea Eggs; separated
1/2 ts Salt
1/2 c  Sugar (about 100 g. or 3 1/2 oz.)
2 c  Flour (about 240 g. or 8 oz.)
1/2 c  Milk (1/8 liter or 1/4 pint)
4 tb Butter; melted
1/2 ea Lemon (peel of); grated
X  Shortening for frying
1/2 c  Raisins (100 g. or 3 1/2 oz.);
-scalded and dried on
-absorbent paper
:
:
X  Sugar

Beat egg yolks with salt and sugar until very thick; add flour
alternately with milk, beating until smooth after each addition. Beat
in melted butter and grated peel. Beat egg whites until stiff peaks
are formed; fold into batter.

Heat enough shortening to coat teh bottom of the skillet; pour on
enough batter to cover bottom, tipping skillet back and forth to
cover evenly. Bake over medium heat until pancake is lightly browned
on both sides. Then tear into pieces with two forks. Sprinkle with
some of the raisins and sugar, tossing gently while heating to golden
brown.

Repeat process until all the batter is used. Serve pancakes
immediately with apple sauce or fruit compote.

Makes 6 servings.

Source: The World's 100 Best Recipes by Roland Goock (Castle Books)

Transcribed By: Sam Lefkowitz


Date: 11-02-95 (08:00) (164)
From: Sam Lefkowitz
Fido: Home Co

