Title: Lapin aux Pruneaux
Categories: Main dish, Game, French, Casseroles
Yield: 6 servings
1/2 oz Butter
1/2 oz Flour
1    Rabbit
6 oz Prunes
1 tb Oil
MMMMM--------------------------MARINADE-------------------------------
5 fl Red wine
1 lg Bouquet garni
1 md Onion, coarsely chopped
1 md Carrot, coarsely chopped
6    Peppercorns slightly crushed
1 tb Oil
7 fl Red wine
10 fl Broth (stock)
1    Clove garlic (crushed)
Bouquet garni
Salt & pepper
1 tb Chopped parsley
MMMMM----------------LAPIN A LA FLAMANDE VARIANT---------------------
4 oz Lardons *
Cut the rabbit into 6 or 7 pieces.  Marinate the rabbit: put the
pieces in a bowl (not aluminium) and add the marinade ingredients,
wine, bouquet garni, onion carrot and pepper corns. Pour the oil on
top. Cover and leave at room temperature, turning occasionally, for
4-12 hours. Alternatively the rabbit can be marinated in the
refrigerator for 1-2 days. Pour boiling water over the prunes, cover
and leave to soak for about three hours.

Drain the rabbit and pat dry with paper towels. In a saut‚ pan or
shallow casserole, heat the oil and butter and brown the rabbit
pieces on all sides. Remove from the pan, add the onion and carrot
from the marinade and saut‚ slightly until soft. Sprinkle the flour
over the vegetables, stirring, until the flour browns. Stir in the
marinade and red wine and bring to a boil. Add broth, garlic, bouquet
garni, salt and pepper. Replace the rabbit pieces, cover and simmer
for 25 mins. Transfer them to another shallow casserole and strain
the sauce over the rabbit, pressing hard on the vegetables. Drain the
prunes, add them to the rabbit, cover and simmer for 10-15 mins or
until rabbit and prunes are tender.

Transfer  the rabbit to a serving dish and spoon the prunes on top. If
necessary, boil to reduce the sauce until it just coats a spoon;
taste for seasoning and spoon it over the rabbit.  Sprinkle with
parsley just before serving.

Variant for Lapin … la Flamande

With the prunes, add lardons - * bacon cut in cubes or finger shapes
(lardons)

Blanch the bacon if it is salty, and saut‚ lightly in butter before
adding them to the rabbit for the last 10-15 mins of cooking.
Submitted By IAN HOARE   On   10-12-95

