Title: Lemon Grass and its many uses+
Categories: Herbs/spice, Information
Yield: 1 info
MMMMM-----------------------NO INGREDIENTS----------------------------
The tough long fronds can be bruised ligfhtly and then a broth or tea
can be infused with them. Cut them into strips to fit the cooking
vessel. Aromatize rice, delicate pasta, or shell beans with a few
stalks slipped into the cooking water.

Vegetables: Add stalks while the vegetables are simmering.

Poultry: place several whole, lightly pounded stalks in the cavity of
a chicken or other fowl before roasting or grilling.

Salads: Toss minced lemon grass core in vegetable, seafood, poultry,
rice or pasta salads. Dress with citrus vinaigrette and ginger.

A fine way to mince the palest inner core is to cut thinly across and
mince in a small food processor.

It makes a delicious herbal tea-hot or cold

Seasoning paste: puree chopped lemon grass core with other
aromatics-fresh herbs, spices, onions, garlic, shallots-and a little
cream or oil, them spread on poultry, meat or seafood before cooking.

Savory Sauces: Prepare simple cream, egg and wine sauces with lemon
grass stalks-it wont curdle them as lemon might.

Fish: pound whole stalks, then insert into the cavity of whole fish
before grilling, steaming or baking. Place fish steaks or fillets on
pounded stalks when steaming.

Stir-fries: Toss a generous handful of finely minced lemon grass core
into vegetable, meat, poultry and seafood dishes.

Tea: Bruise and slice two stalks; combine with one quart of cold
water. Bring to a simmer; then remove from the heat. Cover for 15
minutes; strain. Reheat or chill for iced tea.

Selection and Storage: look for heavy, long, relatively green stalks
with chubby bulbs, which may blush at the base. The grass always has
a shabby look but it should not be dried out. It will store for up to
2 weeks. You may buy extra and freeze it! You can cut strips itno
small pieces and dry them. Store in airtight jars, then use as is or
grind to a powder before incorporating them into a dish.

Don't cut up the stalks before you are to use them as the volatile
oils will be lost.

One nice way to serve the tea is with honey and a bit of cayenne
pepper.

A simple fruit dessert: Simmer milk, a little sugar, and vanilla
bean; add chopped lemon grass. Cover, cool, and strain and chill.
ladle into soup bowls and add watermelon, mango, or pineapple.

There is a fine recipe for BBQ shrimp and ideas for lamb stew, cured
salmon and beef salad. Even ice cream.

Source: Saveur magazine. I condensed the article,. If more info is
needed look on pp. 39 of volume #2 Sept./Oct of 94

Some added personal experience with lemon grass. This last spring I
looked carefully through a bunch of lemon grass stalks and came up
with a couple that seemed to have rudimentary roots. I brought them
home and placed them in a clear glass jar with water and "voila"
roots did appear. I planted them in a pot and kept the plant outside
all summer where it thrived and I had all the fronds I could wish
ever since. As it is now fall I have the plant hanging handily in the
kitchen and we shall just see if it will make it through the winter
indoors.

Mary Riemerman
Submitted By MARY RIEMERMAN   On   10-06-95

