Title: Mississippi Flyway Duck
Categories: Main dish, Poultry, Game
Yield: 8 servings
3 ea Ribs celery; coarsely
-chopped
2 ea Onions; coarsely chopped
4 lg Tart apples; cut in eighths,
-and cored
6 tb Butter (3/4 stick), at room
-temperature
1/2 c  Chicken or veal stock
4 ea Wild canvasback or mallard
-ducks, 2.5 to 3 lbs each;
-ready to cook
2 ea Lemons; cut in half
Salt and freshly ground
-black pepper to taste
1 ts Dried thyme
2 tb Fresh parsley; chopped
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F.
Rinse the ducks thoroughly and dry them well with paper towels.
Rub the cavities with the lemon and sprinkle them with salt and
pepper, thyme, and parsley.
Toss together the celery, onions, and apples in a large bowl.
Stuff the mixture loosely into the cavities of the ducks.  Truss the
ducks by closing the opening in each with skewers or sewing with
string.
Rub the ducks thoroughly with the butter and place them on their
sides, with space between them, in a low-sided flame-proof baking
pan. Cook for 20 minutes, then baste them and turn them to the other
side. Baste often and continue to cook, turning the birds, for
another 20 minutes.
Lay the birds on their backs (to brown the breasts) and continue to
cook, basting but not turning, for 30 minutes.  The ducks should be
tender in 1 to 1-1/2 hours for well-done duck.  (Test for doneness by
inserting a skewer in the duck's thigh.  If the juices run clear, it
is done.)
Remove the ducks from the pan, discard the strings and skewers,
and keep warm.
Skim off all the fat from the pan juices.  Add the stock and
scrape to loosen the brown crusty bits from the bottom of the pan.
Reduce over medium-high heat to make a pan gravy.  Season with salt
and pepper if needed.
Remove the dressing from the ducks and serve alongside with a
sauceboat of pan gravy.

VARIATION:  Wine-Basted Flyway Duck:  Follow the directions for
Mississippi Flyway Duck, but baste the ducks with 1 cup of a
full-bodied red wine along with the butter.  Just before serving,
flame the hot ducks with 1/3 cup brandy or cognac.  This creates a
crisper skin, which is most delicious.

_The Heritage of Southern Cooking_   Camille Glenn, 1986 Workman
Publishing ISBN 0-89480-117-1    Typos by Jeff Pruett
Submitted By JEFF PRUETT   On   10-09-95

