Title: Mocha Buche De Noel
Categories: Holiday, Cake/cookie
Yield: 12 servings
And cooled
Confectioners' sugar
Coffee buttercream frosting
See recipe
Bittersweet chocolate
Ganache -- See recipe
6    Eggs
3/4 c  Granulated sugar
1 ts Instant espresso powder
3/4 c  All-purpose flour
2 tb Unsweetened cocoa
1/4 ts Salt
2 tb Unsalted butter -- melted
Position rack in middle of oven and preheat to 350~. Butter a
10x15x1-inch jelly-roll pan. Line bottom with parchment paper. Butter
and flour the paper and pan sides. In a large, heatproof bowl,
combine eggs, granulated sugar and espresso powder. Place over (not
touching) gently boiling water and whisk until just warm to the
touch. Remove from heat. Using an electric mixer set on high speed,
beat until tripled in volume and soft peaks form, about 3 minutes. In
a sifter, combine flour, cocoa and salt. Sift directly onto egg
mixture. Using a rubber spatula, gently fold the mixtures together.
Drizzle on the butter and fold it in. Pour batter into prepared pan.
Bake until a toothpick inserted into center comes out clean, about 15
minutes. Transfer to a rack and let cool completely in the pan. Place
a large sheet of waxed paper on work surface. Using a sifter or sieve,
generously dust the paper with confectioners' sugar. Invert
jelly-roll pan onto the paper and lift off the pan. Peel off the
parchment paper. Spread buttercream evenly over cake. Beginning at a
long side, roll up cake jelly-roll style. Using a sharp knife, cut
off the ends on the diagonal so that each piece is 1 inch on one side
and 3 inches on the other side. Place one piece, cut side to cake, on
top of cake toward one end. Place the other piece, cut side to cake,
on the side of the cake toward the other end. The cake should
resemble a log with cut limbs. Stir ganache until spreadable, then
frost cake, including all the ends. Using a fork, run the tines in
circles on the ends and cut limb ends of the log. Then run the tines
the length of the log to simulate bark. Just before serving, sift
confectioners' sugar over the log, to simulate snow. Slice crosswise
to serve. Serves 12.

NOTE:  This "Christmas Log" cake is pictured on a large serving
platter with plastic holly scattered around the plate. It looks very
impressive.

Typed for you by Marjorie Scofield   10/6/95

: Williams-Sonoma Kitchen Library, Holiday Baking
Recipe By

Date: 10-07-95 (17:18) (160)
From: Marjorie Scofield
Fido: Recipes

