Title: Mushroom Tips
Categories: Information, Vegetables
Yield: 1 info
None
You can find a increasing number of varieties of mushrooms at
supermarkets, specialty food shops and farmers' markets. Cremini
(which look like a brown variant of common white button mushrooms),
Portobellos, shiitakes and enoki are among the most readily
available, but oyster mushrooms, chanterelles, cŠpes (porcini), black
trumpets, morels, hen of the woods, chicken of the woods, hedgehog
and lobster mushrooms are just a few of the types you'll find

Buying and Storing

~ Whether you're looking for cultivated or wild mushrooms, choose
firm, fresh-looking unblemished specimens with intact gills or pores.

~ If you have  trouble finding mushrooms where you live, the following
sources will gladly ship a wide selection of cultivated and seasonally
foraged mushrooms to your door year-round.
Aux Delices des Bois
Gourmet Mushrooms
Hans Johansson's
Mushrooms and More
:
:
:
:

~ Store fresh mushrooms unwashed in the refrigerator in  paper bag.

Cooking

~ Do not clean mushrooms until you are ready to cook them.

~ To prepare them for cooking, trim off any blemishes and tough stems
or stem ends. Wipe the mushrooms clean with a moist cloth if they're
not dirty; wash them thoroughly in cool water if they are.

(Author's Note: Washing is a controversial issue, and many people
claim that you should not do it. Washing may add a little water to
the mushrooms, but that water will evaporate during cooking.)

(Diane's Personal Note: I never wash mushrooms. Use a moist paper
towel or a soft mushroom brush to clean them.)

~ Cook all wild mushrooms thoroughly (for at least 15-20 minutes).
Some types, such as morels, can cause a severe reaction if they're
undercooked.

~ Dry sliced wild mushrooms on a wire rack in the hot sun or in a
150øF oven, then pack them in airtight containers or sturdy plastic
bags and store them in the cupboard.

~ To freeze quantities of wild mushrooms, first cut them into pieces
and roast them in a 400øF oven for 45 minutes. Then pack the
mushrooms in small, sturdy plastic bags with their juices, squeeze
out the air and freeze them. This way the liquid can be used in soup
and the drained mushrooms can be saut‚ed with herbs, garlic and onion.

Food and Wine
October 1995
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   11-07-95

