Title: Old-Fashioned Gingerbread with Variations+
Categories: Cake/cookie, Desserts
Yield: 8 servings
1 ts Dutch processed cocoa
8 tb Unsalted butter, melted
-then cooled to lukewarm
3/4 c  Light unsulphered molasses
3/4 c  Granulaterd sugar
1/2 c  Buttermilk
1/2 c  Whole milk
1 lg Egg
2 1/4 c  All-purpose unbleached flour
1/2 ts Baking soda
1/2 ts Salt
2 ts Dried ground ginger
1 ts Ground cinnamon
1/2 ts Ground cloves
1/2 ts Ground nutmeg
1/2 ts Ground allspice
MMMMM----------------WITH DRIED FRUIT, VARIATION---------------------
-chopped prunes
-Add
1/4 c  Raisins, dred cranberries or
MMMMM----------------APPLE UPSIDE DOWN GNGRBREAD---------------------
3    Tart baking apples such as
-Granny Smith or Jonathon
-add
4 tb Unslated butter, melted
3/4 c  Light brown sugar
MMMMM----------------ORANGE SAUCE FOR GINGERBREAD---------------------
1/8 ts Salt
2 tb Unsalted butter
1 tb Fresh lemon juice
1 1/3 c  Juice from 4 lg oranges +
1 ts Zest
1/2 c  Sugar
4 ts Cornstarch
Note: For stronger ginger flavor, replace the dried ginger with three
tb. grated peeled fresh ginger and 3 tb. minced crystallized ginger.
If you prefer a lighter gingerbread cover loosely with a piece of
aluminum foil during the last 15 to 20 minutes baking time.

1. Adjust oven rack to center position and heat oven to 350 degrees.

2. Whisk together flour, baking soda, salt, ginger, cinnamon, cloves,
nutmeg, allspoce, and cocoa in medium bowl.

3. Beat butter, molasses, sugar, buttermilk, milk, and egg in large
bowl of an electric mixer on low speed.

4. Add dry ingredients to liquid; beat on medium speed until batter is
smooth and thick, about 1 minute, scraping down the sides of bowl with
rubber spatula as needed. Do not overmix. (If using with fresh ginger,
batter will be lumpy.)

5. Working quickly, pour batter into nonstick 11 x 7 x 1 1/2"
rectangular metal baking pan and smooth surface. (If you do not have
a nonstick baking pan, then use no-stick baking spray or solid
vegetable shortening to grease pan sides and bottom, then dust with
flour.)

6. Bake until top springs back when lightly touched, and edges have
pulled away from the pan sides, about 35 to 45 minutes.

7. set pan on wire rack and let cool 5 to 10 minutes. Serve hot, warm
or room temperature. (Gingerbread can be wrapped in plastic wrap, and
then in foil and refrigerated for up to 5 days.)

APPLE UPSIDE DOWN GINGERBREAD:

For apple topping: Grease sides of 11 x 7 x 1 1/2" metal pan. Pour 4
tb. of melted unsalted butter into the pan; spread 3/4 cup of brown
sugar evenly over pan bottom. Peel, halve, core and slice thin the
apples. Arrange slices, overlapping slightly upon brown sugar mixture
in a decorative fashion.

For the gingerbread: Follow old-fashioned gingerbread recipe, pouring
batter over apple slices. Increase baking time to 50 to 60 minutes.
Let gingerbread cool in pan for 5 minutes, invert onto serving plate,
cut into squares, and serve.

GINGERBREAD WITH DRIED FRUIT: Follow old-fashioned gingerbread recipe,
folding in raisins, or dried cranberries or chopped prunes.

ORANGE SAUCE FOR GINGERBREAD: 1. in small saucepan bring orange juice,
sugar, cornstarch, and salt to a boil over medium heat, stirring
constantly. Continue to cook until sauce is thick and clear, about 1
minute.

2. Remove from heat, then stir in butter, lemon juice and zest. Serve
hot, warm, or at room temperature over gingerbread squares.

Folks I got these recipes from one of my absolute favorite cooking
magazines which is "Cook's" I made the basic recipe and, without a
doubt, it is the best gingerbread I have ever tasted. I used the
crystallized ginger and fresh ginger option (instead of dried ground
ginger.) I like Cook's 'cause they try several variations on a theme
before they recommend their best recipe. Simple recipes virtually
rise a couple levels in flavor because of their efforts. I highly
recommend the magazine (and the gingerbread.)
Mary Riemerman
Submitted By MARY RIEMERMAN   On   10-13-95

