Title: Onion-Herb Rolls
Categories: Holiday, Muffins
Yield: 12 servings
1 c  Warm water (120 degrees F)
1 tb Active dry yeast
3 tb Wheat bran
1 1/2 ts Salt -- (scant 1 1/2 tsp)
1/4 ts Freshly ground pepper
3 c  All-purpose flour --
(about)
1/3 c  Olive oil
1 1/4 c  Finely chopped yellow onion
2    Cloves Garlic -- finely
Chopped
1 ts Minced fresh sage
1 ts Minced fresh rosemary
1 ts Minced fresh thyme
Fragrant with sage, rosemary and thyme, these rolls are perfect with
Thanksgiving dinner.

In a heavy frying pan over medium heat, warm the olive oil. Add onion
and garlic and saute, stirring, until tender, about 8 minutes. Stir
in the herbs and saute until the flavors have blended, about 2
minutes. Remove from heat and let cool. Pour warm water into a large
bowl. Sprinkle yeast over top and let stand until dissolved, about 1
minute. Stir in bran, salt and pepper, then mix in onion mixture.
Using a wooden spoon, gradually beat in about 2 1/2 cups flour to
make a semisoft dough. Transfer dough to a floured work surface and
knead, adding flour as needed to prevent sticking, until just smooth
and elastic, about 5 minutes. Grease a large, clean bowl with olive
oil. Gather dough into a ball, place in bowl and turn to coat with
the oil. Cover the bowl with a clean kitchen towel. Place in a warm,
draft-free area until dough is doubled in volume, about 1 hour. Punch
down dough and transfer to a lightly floured work surface. Knead
until smooth, about 2 minutes. Divide dough into 12 equal portions
and form each portion into a strip about 7 inches long and 2 inches
wide. Beginning at a narrow end, roll up each strip to form a roll.
Oil a baking sheet with olive oil and place rolls, seam side down and
well apart. Cover with the kitchen towel and let rise in a warm,
draft-free area until doubled in volume, about 35 minutes. Meanwhile,
position rack in middle of oven and preheat to 400~. Bake until rolls
are golden brown and sound hollow when thumped on the bottoms, 15 to
18 minutes. Serve warm. Makes 12 rolls.

Typed for you by Marjorie Scofield   10/6/95

: Williams-Sonoma Kitchen Library, Holiday Baking
Recipe By

Date: 10-07-95 (17:25) (160)
From: Marjorie Scofield
Fido: Recipes

