Title: Packing And Sealing For Freezing
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM--------------------PACKING AND SEALING-------------------------
The secret to successful freezer packaging is to seal the air out
and keep it out. Immediately after blanching and cooling, pack
vegetables loosely in proper containers. Plastic freezer bags and
boxes or can-and-freeze jars are all excellent. Freezer containers
must be airtight, moisture/vaporproof, odorless, tasteless, and
grease proof.

HEAD SPACE Since food expands as it freezes, you must allow room (or
head space) for this expansion. Otherwise the lids will pop off, bags
will burst, and you'll have wasted food, time, and money. Foods that
are dry need no head space. Food that's packed in liquid or is mostly
liquid needs 1/4 inch of head space for pints, 1/2 inch for quarts.
If you pack foods in containers with narrow mouths, the food expands
upward in the container even more, requiring 3/4 inch of head space
for pints and 1-1/2 inches for quarts. We suggest you stick to wide
mouth containers. Most recipes give you head space needs for each
particular food for wide mouth containers only.

SEALING How you seal food for the freezer is just as important as how
you package it. After wiping the mouths of your freezer containers
with a clean, damp cloth, seal rigid containers by following the
manufacturer's instructions, or by snapping, screwing, or fitting the
lid tightly on the container. If the lid doesn't seem tight, seal it
with freezer tape.
Seal bags or boilable pouches with a heat sealing appliance; follow
the instructions that come with the heat sealer. Or seal bags by
pressing out the air, then twisting the bag close to the food. Fold
the twisted section over and fasten it with a rubber band, pipe
cleaner, or twist tie. To get air out of an odd shaped bag, lower the
filled bag into a sink full of water and let the water press the air
out. Twist the bag top, lift it out, double the twisted area
backward, and fasten.  For zipper closed type freezer bags, press the
air out, then press the zipper closed by starting at one edge and
slide your fingers along the length of the zipper pressing it closed.

LABELING A good freezer label should tell what food is in the
package, the amount of food or number of servings, and when it went
into the freezer. Better yet, it should tell how the food was packed,
and when, for example, "Sugar Pack Strawberries: June, 1976" You
might want to include an expiration or use by date. Frozen main
dishes, sauces packed in boilable pouches, and other more complex
items call for a label with description, number of servings, perhaps
even heating and thawing instructions.
Select labeling materials that will last. A grease pencil or felt tip
marker may write directly on the container. Freezer tape makes a quick
label, as do pressure sensitive labels from a stationery store. Try to
print legibly and use standard abbreviations.

Source: Vegetable Gardening Encyclopedia Typos by Dorothy Flatman 1995
Submitted By DOROTHY FLATMAN   On   09-28-95

