Title: Peach, Apricot And Plum Tart (Torta Di Pesche E Albicocch
Categories: Fruit, Desserts, Italian
Yield: 1 servings
Albicocche E Prugne)
Peach, Apricot and Plum Tart
(Torta di Pesche E
From : Sallie Krebs, Sat 07 Oct 95 13:30, Area: COOKING Peach,
Apricot and Plum Tart (TORTA DI PESCHE E ALBICOCCHE E PRUGNE)

MAKES ONE 9-INCH TART, OR 6 TO 8 SERVINGS Source: Cooking Vegetables
the Italian Way; Judith Barrett ISBN 0-02-009078-1; 1994

All the best flavors of summer fruit are combined in this wonderful
pie. This tart was prepared for my husband and myself at a wonderful
lunch prepared by Lorenza de' Medici in Tuscany.

1 recipe Basic Pie Pastry 3 pounds total peaches, nectarines,
apricots, and/or plums 1/2 cup sugar Juice of 1/2 lemon

1. Prepare the pie pastry, roll it out, and press it into a 9-inch
springform pan with removable sides. Leave enough dough aside to make
strips for a lattice-top crust.

2. Prepare the fruit: Peel the peaches and nectarines. Remove all the
pits and cut the fruit into thick slices. Put the fruit into a large
non-aluminum saucepan. Add the sugar and lemon juice, stir well to
combine, and place over medium-high heat. Cook, while stirring, until
the fruit begins to give up its liquid and the sugar is dissolved,
about 5 minutes. Reduce the heat to medium-low and continue cooking
for about 20 minutes longer, stirring occasionally, until the fruit
is tender but not mushy and the liquid in the pan has become quite
thick.

3. Preheat the oven to 375-F.

4. Pour the fruit filling into the crust. Cover the filling with
strips of the dough to make a lattice-top crust and crimp the edges
of the pastry. Place the pan on the middle rack in the oven and bake
for about 1 hour, or until the crust is evenly golden brown and the
filling is bubbling. Allow to cool completely before removing the
sides of the pan. When cool, run a sharp knife between the crust and
the pan. Open the pan latch and remove.

Keywords: Scanned, SJK

Date: 10-07-95 (20:10) (159)
From: Sallie Krebs
Fido: Cooking

