Title: Petite Sweet Pickles
Categories: Can/preserv
Yield: 7 servings
2 ts Celery seed
2 ts Mixed pickling spice
1/2 ts Turmeric
1/2 ts Fennel; if desired
2 ts Vanilla
7 lb Small cucumbers
-(1-1/2 to 3 inches long)
1/2 c  Pure granulated salt
8 c  Sugar
1 1/2 qt Vinegar
4 ea Sticks cinnamon
These crisp, sweet pickles take a little bit of attention twice a day
for 4 days, but they are well worth the effort. The recipe makes
seven to eight 1 pint jars. You'll need a vegetable brush, a large
mixing bowl or clean dish pan, a fork, and a small saucepan in
addition to the basic equipment.

1. DAY 1, MORNING: Wash cucumbers thoroughly, scrubbing with a brush.
Be sure to remove any blossoms left on the ends, but leave a tiny bit
of stem in place.

2. Drain, then put in a large mixing bowl or other container and
cover with boiling water.

3. DAY 1, AFTERNOON: (or 6 to 8 hours later); Drain the cucumbers
well. Cover them with fresh boiling water.

4. DAY 2, MORNING: Drain the cucumbers. Cover them with fresh boiling
water.

5. DAY 2, AFTERNOON: Drain the cucumbers. Add salt and cover them with
fresh boiling water.

6. DAY 3, MORNING: Drain the cucumbers and poke each cucumber in
several places with a fork.

7. In a saucepan, combine 3 cups of the sugar, 3 cups of the vinegar,
the whole spices, turmeric, and fennel. Heat to boiling and pour over
the cucumbers. They will be only partially covered.

8. DAY 3, AFTERNOON: Drain the cucumbers and save they syrup. Combine
the syrup with 2 cups of the vinegar and 2 cups of the sugar in the
saucepan. Heat to boiling and pour it over the cucumbers.

9. DAY 4, MORNING: Drain and save syrup. Heat syrup with 2 cups of the
sugar and 1 cup of the vinegar to boiling. Pour over cucumbers (now
pickles).

10. DAY 4, AFTERNOON: Organize and prepare the work space. Drain and
save syrup.

11. Combine syrup with the remaining 1 cups sugar and vanilla. Heat to
boiling.

12. Pack pickles into hot jars and pour in the syrup to within 1/4
inch of tops. Run a slim, non metal tool down along the insides of
jars to release any air bubbles. Add additional hot liquid, if
necessary, to within 1/4 inch of tops of jars.

13. Wipe tops and threads of jars with a damp clean cloth.

14. Put on lids and screw bands as manufacturer directs.

15. Process in a boiling water bath for 15 minutes. Follow basic
steps for boiling water bath canning, 10 through 18.

Source: Vegetable Gardening Encyclopedia Typos by Dorothy Flatman
1995 -- Note: I did try these one year and if you like sweet pickles,
(my husband does, I don't but had to admit that for a sweet pickle,
they were very good). Actually, it really isn't all that much work
either, especially for the end result. The initial scrubbing takes
the most time since the smaller the cucumber, the better the pickle.
Don't try to shortcut the steps though, the result won't be nearly
the same. Submitted By DOROTHY FLATMAN   On   10-10-95

