Title: Pork Noisettes With Peppers And Balsamic Vinegar
Categories: Meats
Yield: 6 servings
-lb each) -- excess fat
-trimmed
2 tb Olive oil
2 c  Chicken stock
1/3 c  Nicoise or Kalamata olives
-pitted
Fresh thyme sprigs
1    Red bell pepper -- roasted
-and peeled
1    Yellow bell pepper --
-roasted and peeled
2 tb Balsamic vinegar
Salt and freshly ground
Pepper
3    Pork tenderloins (about 3/4
Serve this dish as a main course, accompanied with oven-roasted red
potatoes cooked with garlic cloves and chopped rosemary and thyme.

Cut roasted bell peppers lengthwise into strips 3/4 inches wide. Place
in a bowl and add 1 tablespoon balsamic vinegar and salt and pepper to
taste. Toss well.
Butterfly pork tenderloins by making a long slit down the length of
each tenderloin, cutting just deep enough so that the tenderloin
opens up to lay flat; be careful not to cut all the way through.
Flatten tenderloins and pound gently with a meat pounder. Season with
salt and pepper. Place pepper strips side by side down the center of
each pork tenderloin. Close up tenderloins and, using kitchen string,
tie the loins at 1-inch intervals so that they assume their original
shape. In a large frying pan or saute pan over medium-high heat, warm
the olive oil. Add pork and brown on all sides, about 5 minutes
total. Reduce heat to medium-low, cover and continue to cook slowly,
turning occasionally, until meat is firm to the touch and pale pink
when cut in the thickest portion, 15 to 18 minutes. Transfer
tenderloins to a platter, cover with foil and keep warm.
Increase heat to high and add chicken stock, the remaining
1 tablespoon balsamic vinegar and olives to form a sauce. Cook,
stirring occasionally, until reduced by half, about 5 minutes.
Snip the strings on tenderloins and discard. Cut the meat crosswise
into slices 1 inch thick.
To serve, arrange pork slices on warmed plates and spoon sauce over
them. Garnish with thyme sprigs and serve immediately.
Serves 6.

Typed for you by Marjorie Scofield   11/3/95

: Williams-Sonoma Kitchen Library, Pork & Lamb
Recipe By

Date: 11-12-95 (09:30)
From: Marjorie Scofield
(159) Fido: Cooking

