Title: Potato and String Bean Salad (Insalate di Patate E Fagiol
Categories: Italian, Potatoes, Salads
Yield: 6 servings
-E Fagiolini)
Potato and String Bean
-Salad (Insalate di Patate
MMMMM----------------FROM : SALLIE KREBS, SAT 07---------------------
-E FAGIOLINI)
MAKES 6 SERVINGS
Potato and String Bean
-Salad (INSALATE DI PATATE
MMMMM----------------SOURCE: COOKING VEGETABLES T---------------------
ISBN 0-02-009078-1; 1994
This is a favorite summer salad to serve with grilled fish or meat.
The potatoes and string beans are cooked just until they are tender
and are dressed while they're still warm so they absorb the delicious
flavors of the sharp wine vinegar and fruity extra virgin olive oil.
3 pounds small red potatoes (all about the same size, 2 inches in
diameter) 1 pound fresh string beans, trimmed Salt and freshly ground
black pepper to taste 1/3 cup extra virgin olive oil 1 teaspoon red
wine vinegar 2 scallions, white and green parts, chopped 2
tablespoons chopped fresh parsley 1. Place the potatoes in a large
saucepan with water to cover and bring the water to a boil over high
heat. Turn the heat down to medium-low and simmer for about 20
minutes, just until the potatoes are tender when pierced with a sharp
knife. Watch carefully so that the potatoes do not crack and fall
apart. Drain and allow to stand until cool enough to handle with your
bare hands. Cut the potatoes into quarters and place them in a large
mixing bowl. 2. Meanwhile, place the string beans in a steamer basket
over boiling water. Cover and cook for 8 minutes. Put the beans in a
colander and rinse under cold running water. Add the beans to the
bowl with the potatoes. Season with salt and pepper. 3. Combine the
oil and vinegar in a small mixing bowl, and pour over the potatoes
and beans. Toss well and allow to stand, loosely covered with plastic
wrap or waxed paper, until completely cool. Just before serving, add
the scallions and parsley and toss well.

Submitted By SALLIE KREBS   On   10-07-95

