Title: PUFF PASTRY
Categories: Pastry
Yield: 3 pounds
1 1/4 lb Butter
1    Lemon
1 c  ;Water, cold (approx)
2 3/4 c  Flour, all-purpose
1 c  Cake flour
1 1/4 ts Salt
Mix the flours and salt together in a bowl.  Remove and reserve 1/2
cup of the mixture.  Cut six ounces (3/4 cup) of the cold butter into
the flour until the mixture has the texture of cornmeal.  Squeeze two
tablespoons lemon juice into a measure and add 14 ounces of water to
make 1 cup of liquid.  Add the water mixture to the flour mixture and
toss with a fork to combine.  Press together.  Do not knead. Add a bit
more water, if necessary, to make a soft dough.  Gather the dough
into a ball, squeezing to make it hold together, and flatten into a
3/4-inch thick disk.  Wrap in plastic wrap and refrigerate for 30
minutes.

Meanwhile, beat the remaining 14 ounces of butter with a wooden spoon
or in a mixer until smooth.  Work in the reserved 1/2 cup of the
flour/salt mixture until smooth.  The butter should still be cold.
Form the butter into a 3/4-inch-thick square, wrap in plastic, and
refrigerate.

After dough has been chilled at least 30 minutes, roll it out on a
lightly floured surface to a 1/2-inch-thick square.  Set the chilled
butter diagonally across the center of the square and fold the corners
of the dough tightly over the butter as you would the flaps of an
envelope, enclosing the butter completely.  Brush off any excess flour
and pinch dough to close tightly.  Quickly roll this to a 1/2-inch-
thick, 8- by 24-inch rectangle, keeping the corners as square as
possible.

Fold the left-hand third of the dough over the center, brush off
excess flour, then fold the right hand third over, as if folding a
letter (forming an 8-inch square).  Rotate the dough 90 degrees and
roll again to a 1/2-inch, 8- by 24-inch rectangle.  Fold in thirds
again, wrap in plastic, and chill for 30 minutes.

Roll and fold twice again.  Chill for 45 minutes more.  Roll and fold
the dough two more times and chill the dough at least two hours before
its final rolling and shaping.

Puff pastry can be made several days ahead, or it can be frozen. Cut
off the amount needed and roll and shape as specified.
NOTE:   The best puff pastry is tender and flaky, rising up to 5 times
its uncooked height.  The key to making great puff pastry is to keep
the dough cold.  Cold, as well as periods of rest, will help prevent
the development of gluten in the flour which makes the dough elastic
and, therefore, tough (fine for bread but not puff pastry). Chill
both the butter and the water.  If the weather is very hot, you may
even want to chill the flour and the rolling pin.  (A chilled rolling
surface will also help.)   Overworking the dough also encourages
gluten production, so work as quickly as possible.

[ The Best of COOKS Magazine; 1987 ]
per Fred Peters
Submitted By SAM WARING   On   11-05-95

