Title: Relish Pointers
Categories: Information, Can/preserv, Pickles
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM------------------------RELISH RULES-----------------------------
Even though turning out lovely relishes is one of the least
complicated preserving activities, you do need to follow directions
closely. Remember, you're combining low acid foods with high acid
foods, with the ultimate goal of creating a condiment high enough in
acid that it doesn't have to be processed in a pressure canner.

Do NOT add extra amounts of low acid vegetables or reduce the amount
of vinegar called for in a recipe. Either practice may result in a
relish no longer safe to process by the boiling water bath method.

Processing times are another factor that must be taken seriously,
even in something as seemingly innocuous as relish.

One way cooks may inadvertently goof is if they create a relish that
is thicker than intended in the original recipe. As the viscosity of
a food increases, the rate at which heat will penetrate through the
entire mass of food decreases. An adequate 15 minute boiling water
treatment in the original recipe may become inadequate if heat
doesn't penetrate the thicker relish in the same length of time.

When a recipe states that the relish should be "reduced by half," or
some such obscure method of measurement, it's easy to get it wrong. A
simple way to control this problem is by controlling the yield. For
example, if a recipe indicates that the yield should be 3 pints, the
actual yield can be controlled as follows:

1. Select a pan with a large surface area.

2. Measure 3 pints of water into the pan on a level surface and mark
the level of the water onto the pan's side with a sharp metal knife.
Pour out the water. (My note: hmmmm, after a few uses this way, I
wonder just WHICH mark you would pay attention to? A good idea, but
there's got to be a better way to mark it in my opinion. Maybe a
special pan you have marked specially with even pint or quart marks
all the way up and labeled?)

3. Add the ingredients to be concentrated or thickened to the pan and
heat them using a medium high setting until the level of the cooked
product reaches the 3  pint mark. Fill the jars and process.

Source: Oregonian FoodDay, Preserving column by Jan Roberts-Dominquez
Typos by Dorothy Flatman 1995
Submitted By DOROTHY FLATMAN   On   10-04-95

