Title: Smoking Salmon And Trout Part IV - Scotch Smoking Prepara
Categories: Fish/seafoo, Can/preserv, Information
Yield: 1 text file  This method is first as it is the most well known and the best; it is
also the most complex.

Scotch smoking can be done to a whole side, that is a large skin-on
fillet or to several pieces cut according to thickness which is
easier. Don't brine a whole side as the thinner parts- the tail and
belly get too much salt. Dry salt instead- this allows you to place a
specific amount of salt on each part of the side according to its
thickness. Let the developing brine drain off. With pieces you can
brine for varying times according to thickness.

For dry salting use plain pickling salt not a mixture to condition the
flesh so it can be thinly sliced for serving. Other flavors can be
added after. When brining pieces sugar and spices can be added to the
brine if you want.

Dry salting whole sides: Cut thick [over 4"] fillets into two slices
OR inject brine into the thickest portion with a pumping needle.
Injection brine should be made up in the ratio of 1 1/4 c salt per
quart water, cooled to 60 deg F and injected before applying the dry
salt. Score or cut just through the skin into the fatty tissues
beneath [slashes] in several places with a sharp knife or a razor
blade to promote salt penetration and apply the salt. Rub salt into
the scores, lay the fillet down on a 1/4" bed of salt in a tray and
place salt on the top of the fillet- from a 1/2" on the thickest part
to just a sprinkling on the tail. Slant the tray so that the brine
that develops flows away from the thin belly meat.

Fatty fish take longer to salt as they contain proportionately less
water.
DRY SALT TIMES

Fat Fish
:Fillet Thickness

3/4"
1"
15 hrs
18 hrs
2"
30 hrs
3"
:
:
:    1 1/4"
:    1 1/2"
:
:    2 1/2"
:

With experience you can tell by feel; a moderately fat fish will
loose 10% of its weight. When touched with a fore finger the flesh
should feel firm and spring back when pressed.

After salting you can use a special Scotch sugar-rum cure or a
finishing brine.

Scotch sugar-rum cure: rinse the dry salt off the side. Drain and
cure it in a cool place for 6 hours. Rub it with vegetable oil [olive
or peanut preferred] and let it stand another 6 hours in a cool
place. Rub off the oil with a rum soaked cloth. Cover the side with
brown sugar just as you did the dry salt and let it stand another 6
hours. Then wipe off the sugar, coat it with oil again and let stand
6 hours. Wipe off the oil again with a rum soaked cloth and proceed
to smoke.

Finishing brine: If not using the scotch sugar-rum cure, use a
finishing brine to take away some of the hardness caused by the dry
salt and finish distributing the salt through the fish. Make
finishing brine in the ratio of 11 oz salt to 4 qt water and leave
the side in the brine for 20 min for a 3/4" fillet up to 90 min for a
2" thick fillet. Drain the side skin side down making sure the brine
can drain away so there are no salt deposits on the fish. A salt
gloss will form and the flesh will cure. Allow to cure overnight 12
hours or even more.

Extracted from: Smoking Salmon & Trout by Jack Whelan. Published by:
Airie Publishing, Deep Bay, B.C. ISBN: 0-919807-00-3 Posted by: Jim
Weller Submitted By JIM WELLER   On   11-03-95

