Title: Stewed Chicken With Parsley Dumplings+
Categories: Poultry, Main dish
Yield: 6 servings
MMMMM--------------------------CHICKEN-------------------------------
1/4 c  Cider vinegar
1    Celery stalk, including the
-green leaves, cut crosswise
-into 4 pieces
1 md Bay leaf1/4
1/4 ts Dry sage, crumbled
2 ts Salt
Freshly ground black pepper
1 lg Frying chicken (3 1/2 to 4
-lbs.) cut into serving
-pieces
1/4 c  Flour
1/3 c  Vegetable oil
1 lg Onion, peeled and sliced
-crosswise into 1/4" rounds
6 c  Chicken stock, fresh or
-canned
MMMMM-------------------------DUMPLINGS------------------------------
-chopped
2 tb Vegetable shortening, cut
-into 1/2" bits
1 c  Milk
2 c  Unsifted flour
4 ts Double-acting baking powder
1 ts Salt
1/4 c  Fresh parsley, finely
Pat the chicken dry with paper towels. Place the flour in a paper
bag, add the chicken, and shake vigorously to coat the pieces evenly.

In a heavy 4 to 5 qt. casserole or Dutch oven at least 10 inches in
diameter, heat the oil over medium heat until a light haze forms
above it. Brown 3 or 4 pieces of chicken at a time, starting them
skin side down, and turning them frequently with tongs. Regulate the
heat so that the pices color richly and evenly without burning. As
they brown, transfer them to a plate.

Drop the onion slices into the fat remaining in the casserole and
stirring frequently, cook for about 5 minutes. when the onions are
soft and transluscent but not brown, return the chicken and the
liquid that has accumulated around it to the casserole. Add the
chicken stock, vinegar, celery, bay leaf, sage, 2 teaspoons of salt
and a few grindings of pepper, and bring it to a boil over high heat.
Reduce the heat ot low, cover partially and simmer for 45 minutes, or
until the bird is almost tender and its thigh shows only the
slightest resistance when pierced deeply with the point of a small
sharp knife. Pick out and discard the celery and bay leaf.

Meanwhile, prepare the dumpling batter in the following fashion:
Combine the four, baking powder, 1 ts. of salt and the parsley in a
deep bowl. Add the vegetable shortening and with your fingertips, rub
the flour and fat together until they look like flakes of coarse
meal. Add the milk and beat vigorously with a spoon until the batter
is smooth.

when the chicken has cooked its allotted time, drop the dumpling
mixture on top by the tablespoonful. Cover the casserole tightly and
simmer undisturbed for about 10 minutes longer. The dumplings are
done when they are puffed and fluffy and a cake tester inserted in
the center of a dumpling comes out clean.

With a slotted spoon remove the dumplings and place them on a plate.
Transfer the stewed chicken to a heated bowl or a deep platter, then
arrange the dumplings on top. Serve at once.

From "American Cooking: The Eastern Heartland" Foods of the World of
the Time Life series

MM format courtesy Mary Riemerman
Submitted By MARY RIEMERMAN   On   10-09-95

