Title: The Practical Kitchen, #3
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 servings
No Ingredients Found
FIRE SAFETY - More than 130,000 kitchen fires are reported every year
~ there are cetainly many times more that are not reported - and
about 16 percent of fatal fires in this cuntry are caused by kitchen
fires.  So fire safety should be an important element in any kitchen,
both in how the kitchen is designed and equipped.  All kitchens
should have usable fire extinguishers that are rate ABC for paper,
wood, cloth, and plastics (A), grease (B), and electric (C) fires.
Unfortunately, smoke detectors are often triggered by the routine
smoke that kitchens produce thus it is usually not recommended to use
them in the kitchen. FIRE BLANKETS - In Europe, fire blankets are
routinely kept in kitchens. You can smother all types of fires by
placing blankets over the blaze. You should have a fire blanket in
your kitchen. BAKING SODA - Baking soda is an excellent extinguisher
of grease fires. Keep a marked container of it near the stove for
rapid use. COST-EFFECTIVE REFRIGERATION - Refrigeratore are major
energy consumers,

so pick the right size carefully.  You want to find the size that
balances the concern of not getting too big a refrigerator that cools
more space than you need over not getting one that is so small that
packed food infringes on circulation.  The rule of thumb here is 8-10
cubic feet for a family of two plus 1 cubic food for each additional
person in the family. The freezer space should be 2 cubic feet per
person. BLACKBOARD REFRIGERATOR - Put a black board on the
refrigerator to post notices on what is coming for dinner and what
leftovers and goodies are available for snacks.  This will stop
everyone in the house from holding the door open and staring at the
food for a snack while the refrigeration escapes; it will head off
any family members from eating the dinner ingredients. DISHWASHERS -
A good buy.  If you are wondering about the cost effectiveness of
buying a dishwasher, think no more.  Two reasons: One is that the
average dishwasher uses less than 10 gallons of water to wash the
equivalent amount of dishes in the sink (more than 15 gallons). The
second reaosn is that washing dishes by hand is a quaranteed
inducement to want to eat out.  It is much cheaper toeat at home.
this is usually a hiden financial benefit of owning a dishwasher.
SPLIT COOKING DECISION - Although it is more expensive, you may want
to consider not getting an oven and stove burners as one appliance.
Instead, separate the tasks with a gas range and an electric oven.
Gas stove tops are much more flexible and precise than electric
burners, and elctric ovens beat gas stoves hands down because they
generate a much more uniform heat and do not dry the food. MICROWAVE
OVENS - There is no question that microwave ovens are extremely
convenient, but the debate continues over whether they may prove to
be unhealthful appliance.  If you get a microwave oven, be sure to
read the instructions.  They are very finicky about what they can
cook and what they can't.  In general, use containers that allow the
microwave to penetrate the food that needs to be heated.  If you are
unsure, place water in the container and put in on high for a minute.
The wate should be heated but the container remain cool.  Do not put
metal containers in microwave ovens. Origin: Household Hints +
Formulas, by Erik Bruun. Shared by: Sharon Stevens, Aug/95.

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   10-06-95

