Title: Turkey with Squash Dressing - SL 11/87
Categories: Main dish, Poultry, Holiday
Yield: 12 servings
2 c  (8-oz) American cheese;
-shredded
6 ea Eggs; slightly beaten
4 ea (10-oz) packages frozen
-yellow quash; cooked and
-drained
1 ea 12 to 14 pound turkey
Salt
Vegetable oil
1 ea 19-ounce package cornbread
-mix
1 c  Onions; chopped
1 c  Celery; chopped
1/4 c  Butter or margarine; melted
2 tb All-purpose flour
1 1/2 ts Salt
1/2 ts Pepper
1 c  Milk
Prepare cornbread mix according to package directions.  Cool on a
wire rack. Cut cornbread into 1/2 inch cubes.  Let stand in a loosely
covered bowl for 8 hours.
Saute onion and celery in butter until crisp-tender.  Add flour,
1-1/2 teaspoons salt, and pepper, stirring until smooth.  Cook 1
minute, stirring constantly.  Reduce heat to medium; gradually add
milk. Cook, stirring constantly, until mixture is thickened and
bubbly. Add cheese, stir until cheese melts.  Gradually stir about
one-fourth of hot mixture into eggs; add to remaining hot mixture,
stirring constantly. Combine cornbread, squash, and cheese sauce in a
large bowl; mix well. Set aside.
Remove giblets and neck from turkey.  Rinse turkey with cold
water; pat dry.  Sprinkle cavity of turkey with salt.  Lightly spoon
1/2 cup of dressing into the neck cavity.  Pull neck skin to back of
turkey; fasten securely with a small skewer.  Lightly spoon half of
remaining dressing into the body cavity; do not pack.  Close cavity
with skewers or wooden picks, and truss.  Tie ends of legs to tail
with cord; lift wingtips up and over back so that they are tucked
under bird. Brush entire turkey with vegetable oil; place on a
roasting rack, breast side up.
Insert meat thermometer in breast or meaty part of thigh, making
sure it does not touch bone.  Bake at 325 degrees F until meat
thermometer reaches 185 degrees F (about 3 to 3-1/2 hours).  If
turkey starts to brown too much, cover loosely with foil.  When
turkey is two-thirds done, cut the cord or band of skin holding the
drumstick ends to the tail; this procedure will ensure that the
insides of the thighs are cooked. Turkey is done when drumsticks are
easy to move up and down.
Remove to serving platter; let stand 20 yo 30 minutes before
carving.
Spoon remaining dressing into a greased 12" x 8" x 2" baking dish.
Bake at 350 degrees F for 25 to 30 minutes.  Yield: 12 to 14 servings.

Mrs. M.L. Shannon of Alabama in November 1987 "Southern Living" Typos
by Jeff Pruett
Submitted By JEFF PRUETT   On   10-19-95

