Title: CAPITOL PUNISHMENT CHILI
Categories: Entrees, Usenet
Yield: 25 servings
1 lb Chuck, extra-lean
-(cut into about
-1/4-inch cubes)
2 lg Onions, finely chopped
1/2 C  Oil or kidney suet
1 t  Mole, powdered
1 T  Sugar
1 t  Coriander
1 t  Durkee's Louisiana
-Red Hot sauce
8 oz Tomato sauce (1 can)
1 T  Masa harina
Salt, to taste
1 T  Oregano
2 T  Paprika
2 T  MSG
9 T  Chili powder (light)
4 T  Cumin
4 T  Beef bouillon
-(instant crushed)
4 T  Cumin
Beer (2 cans)
2 C  Water
4 lb Chuck, extra-lean
-(ground for chili)
2 lb Pork, extra-lean
-(ground for chili)
In a large pot add paprika, oregano, MSG, chili powder, cumin, beef
bouillon, beer and two cups of water. Let simmer.

In a separate skillet brown about 1 1/2 lb meat with about 1 T oil or
kidney suet until meat is light brown. Drain and add to simmering spices.
Continue until all meat has been added.

Saute finely chopped onions and garlic in about 1 T oil or kidney suet. Add
to spices and meat mixture.  Add water as needed.  Simmer two hours.  Add
mole, sugar, coriander, Louisiana Red Hot sauce and tomato sauce.  Simmer
45 minutes.

Dissolve Masa Harina in warm water and add to chili.  Add salt to taste.
Simmer 30 minutes.

NOTES:

*  World champion Texas red chili -- This recipe comes from Bill Pfeiffer.
He won the 1980 and 1982 World Chili Cookoff and took first place in the
International Chili Society's 14th annual World Championship Chili Cookoff
with it.

Pfeiffer calls this recipe "Capitol Punishment Chili" because he won his
first attempt at a chili cookoff in Washington, DC. Texas red chili has no
beans...

*  Probably your favorite brand of beer is ok.  Pfeiffer's ICS winning
recipe uses Budweiser because they sponsored the contest. For hotter chili,
add additional Louisiana Red Hot sauce to taste.

*  This chili is a great dish if you have a LOT of time.  Note well the
amount of time called for in each simmering step.

: Difficulty:  moderate.
: Time:  4-5 hours.
: Precision:  approximate measurement OK.

: Bob Devine
: ViaNetix Inc., Boulder, Colorado
: {ihnp4, decvax}!stcvax!nbires!vianet!devine

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

