Title: CHICKEN ADOBO
Categories: Poultry, Filipino, Usenet
Yield: 4 servings
1 t  Black pepper, ground
2 C  Water
1/2 C  Vinegar (rice vinegar
-or white wine vinegar
-work best)
2    Bay leaves
2 T  Cooking oil
2 lb Chicken pieces,
-cut up or whole
1    Garlic head,
-coarsely chopped
-(yes, an entire head!)
4 T  Soy sauce
-(or more to taste)
Put vinegar, bay leaves, pepper, soy sauce and water in a saucepan.  Cover
and cook slowly about 15 minutes.

Meanwhile, heat the cooking oil in a large, heavy-bottomed frying pan. Peel
the garlic, break the cloves into chunks and brown them over medium-low
heat (about 5 minutes). Add the chicken to the frying pan and brown it over
medium-high heat (about 5 minutes).

Add the broth to the frying pan and simmer, partly covered, until the
chicken is done (about 30 minutes). Do not let it come to a boil.

Remove the bay leaves and serve over rice.  This dish is too strongly
flavored to go well with wine; try serving it with beer.

NOTES:

*  Filipino chicken with garlic -- Adobo is the national dish of the
Philippines.  Most warm-weather countries have through the centuries
developed recipes that preserve food while flavoring it. This dish is
different than many because of its strong component of vinegar. It is at
once sour, salty and drenched in garlic.

*  You can substitute pork for the chicken, or mix the two.  In the
Philippines it is the custom to marinate the meat for two days rather
before simmering; with the top-grade meats that are universally available
in our grocery stores, that is not necessary (though it does deepen and
enrich the flavor). To marinate the chicken, mix in the broth and 3 of the
garlic cloves after step 1, then put the chicken in a glass dish and pour
the marinade over it.

: Difficulty:  easy.
: Time:  1 hour.
: Precision:  approximate measurement OK.

: Bob Kunz
: {ihnp4!hplabs!hp-pcd, uw-beaver!fluke}!hplsla!kunz
: Hewlett-Packard, Lake Stevens Instrument Division
: Everett, Washington

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

