Title: CHILI BEAN SOUP
Categories: Soups, Usenet
Yield: 5 cups
10 1/2 oz Beef or chicken broth
16 oz Tomatoes, stewed
3 T  Chili powder
-(or about 7 to 10 oz
-green chili salsa)
1 lb Beans, pink, red or pinto
Boiling water (6 to 8 C)
1 t  Garlic salt
1 t  Onion salt
1/4 t  Thyme
1/4 t  Marjoram
Rinse and wash beans.  Soak using either slow soak or quick soak.  For slow
soak, submerge beans in about 6 cups of cold water salted to taste and soak
6-8 hours or overnight, unrefrigerated.  For quick soak, submerge beans in
about 6 to 8 cups of hot water salted to taste.  Bring to a boil, boil 3
minutes, remove from heat, and soak 1 hour.  Whichever method you choose,
make sure you use a pot large enough to let the beans expand 2 1/2 times,
and drain and rinse the beans after soaking.

Put the beans in a large pot.  Add boiling water, garlic, onion, salt,
thyme and marjoram. Cover and simmer until the beans are tender (2 1/2 to 3
hours). Don't let beans boil dry. Add hot water as needed.

Spoon out 3 cups of the cooked beans to use another day in another way.
Mash the rest of the beans with their liquid. Add remaining ingredients,
plus about 1 cup of hot water. Heat at least 10 minutes to blend flavors.

NOTES:

*  A variation of chili con carne with beans -- I got this recipe from "A
Primer on Bean Cookery" by the California Dry Bean Council and other
organizations.  Yield:  Makes 5 to 6 cups.

*  I'm not sure why the recipe doesn't call for you to cook a smaller
quantity of beans, rather than spooning out the cooked beans. The pamphlet
says that you can make the excess beans into a salad by covering them with
French dressing and refrigerating. I think they're trying to sell more
beans.

*  Chili powder is a spice from Texas and Mexico consisting mainly of
ground dried chili peppers.

*  Green chili salsa is a Mexican condiment made from hot green chilies,
onions, vinegar, salt and other ingredients.

*  The slow soak method gives beans a better texture.  Since these beans
will be mashed, it won't make much difference, unless you're concerned
about those 3 extra cups of cooked beans you will make into a salad.

: Difficulty:  Easy
: Time:  3 to 3 1/2 hours when done by the quick-soak method, overnight if
slow-soak.
: Precision:  No need to measure.

: Jeff Lichtman
: Relational Technology, Inc., Alameda, CA
: {amdahl, sun}!rtech!jeff
: {ucbvax, decvax}!mtxinu!rtech!jeff
:
: Saints should always be judged guilty until they are proved innocent..

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

