Title: CHINESE SPAGHETTI
Categories: Pasta, Chinese, Usenet
Yield: 6 servings
1 T  Sesame seed oil
1/2 C  Chicken broth
5 T  Sweet bean sauce
-(or hoisin sauce)
3 T  Soy sauce
1 T  Chinese rice wine
1 1/2 t  Sugar (omit if hoisin
-sauce was used)
1/2 t  MSG
1 T  Green onion, finely
-chopped
1/2 lb Bean sprouts
2 T  Peas (fresh or frozen)
-per person
1    Cucumber
3    Eggs
1/2 C  Green onions, chopped
1 C  Chinese noodles (or
-linguine) per person
1 lb Lean pork or beef,
-chopped into small pieces
1 t  Ginger, crushed
TO PREPARE THE MEAT SAUCE:  Heat about 3 T oil in wok, brown the ginger and
green onion, then add meat and brown together.

Mix together the bean (or hoisin) and soy sauces, add this mixture to the
meat, and stir fry briefly.  Then add rice wine, sugar, MSG and sesame oil.
Add the chicken broth and simmer for about 3 minutes, until the sauce
becomes thick and shiny. Put mixture in a serving bowl and set aside.

(GARNISHES)

:  o  Boil bean sprouts for 1 minute, drain, and put in serving bowl.
:  o  Warm peas and put in a serving bowl.
:  o  Cut cucumber into very fine strips, or grate.  Place in serving bowl.
:  o  Scramble eggs, fry into very thin pancakes, and cut into thin strips.

TO SERVE:  Cook noodles in boiling water for 3 minutes; drain.  If you are
preparing this dish ahead, rinse with cold water, drain, and add about 1 T
sesame seed oil and mix well.

Serve about 1 cup hot or cold noodles in a bowl, then add the garnishes and
meat sauce to taste.

NOTES:

*  The original Chinese spaghetti -- This recipe is an interesting
variation from the usual restaurant chinese food. When I learned this dish,
I realized that this was the origin of the Italian pasta dishes. It still
serves as a reminder that there is a huge variety of Northern Chinese
dishes that use wheat-based starches instead of rice. Yield: serves 6-8.

*  This dish can be prepared a day ahead and served cold.  The selection of
vegetables in the garnish is pretty arbitrary.  All kinds of vegetable
combinations are good.  The only rule is that they should all be cut into
thin strips.

: Difficulty:  easy to moderate.
: Time:  1-2 hours (lots of preparation, little cooking).
: Precision:  Measure the sauce ingredients.

: Rob Horn
: Infinet, North Andover, Massachusetts, USA
: {decvax, seismo!harvard}!wanginst!infinet!rhorn

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

