Title: CHOCOLATE-CHIP COOKIES
Categories: Cookies, Usenet
Yield: 1 dozen
6 T  Brown sugar
1/2 t  Vanilla extract
1 lg Egg
6 oz Nestle's chocolate
-chips (1 package)
1 C  Flour (plus 2 T)
1/2 t  Salt
1/2 t  Baking soda
1/2 C  Butter, softened
-(1 stick)
6 T  Sugar, white
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F.  Sift flour, salt, baking soda together in a
small bowl.

In another bowl, mix butter with two sugars, vanilla and egg until smooth.
gradually mix dry stuff in with butter mixture.  Mix in chocolate chips.
Put blobs of dough on ungreased cookie sheet. Bake at 375 degrees F. for
8-10 minutes.

Important: double all proportions above (always make 2 x  as much of these
as the recipe calls for). Let's face it: small is beautiful, but big
cookies are better than small ones. All the printed recipes call for teeny
cookies, dropped by teaspoonsful onto cookie sheets (yield 50). My "blobs
of dough" are golf-ball sized, which makes healthy 3-4 inch cookies.

NOTES:

*  Cookies like what Mom should have made -- There is no substitute for
chocolate-chip cookies, warm out of the oven, washed down with cold milk.
This is Mom's recipe, and Mom's Mom's recipe.  This is also Nestle's "Toll
House" recipe, and the Joy of Cooking "Chocolate-Chip Drop Cookies" recipe,
etc, which is no coincidence.  This is the default recipe.  This is not
Mrs. Field's recipe. If you want Mrs. Field's, use a shopping mall; if you
want simple, elegant, timeless chocolate-chip cookies, use this recipe.
Yield:  12 big cookies.

*  I invariably make these on the spur of the moment, and so usually nuke
the butter in a microwave to soften it up. I also occasionally cheat and
soften up the butter/sugar mixture a tad in the oven.

*  Try adding walnuts, macadamia, white chocolate, orange peel,
butterscotch chips, or mint, all these are welcome variations. But keep it
simple.

: Difficulty:  easy to moderate.
: Time:  20 minutes.
: Precision:  measure the ingredients.
:
: Mike Hawley, ucbvax!dagobah!mike
: The Droid Works, San Rafael, California

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

