Title: CHOCOLATE BREAD PUDDING
Categories: Puddings, Usenet
Yield: 4 servings
1 1/2 C  Milk
2    Eggs, lightly beaten
2 1/2 C  Bread cubes (small,
-firm and fresh)
6 oz Chocolate (semisweet
-or white), melted
1/2 C  Sugar, granulated
1/4 t  Salt
1 t  Cinnamon, ground
Butter four 1-cup ramekins or six custard cups and place them on a cookie
sheet.  Preheat oven to 400 degrees F.

Combine the melted chocolate, sugar, salt and cinnamon.  Stir the milk in
slowly and then add the eggs.  Beat the entire mixture with a whisk until
well blended. Stir in the bread cubes and let them soak for a few minutes.
Beat the pudding with a whisk again. The bread cubes should fall apart
somewhat.

Divide the pudding between the ramekins or custard cups and put them,
cookie sheet and all, into the oven. Bake for 15 minutes or until the edges
look done (spongey, like a cake) and the middle is just under done.

Cool for 15 minutes and serve or cool completely, wrap, and store in the
refrigerator.  They will keep for 3 to 4 days, at least, if refrigerated.
The puddings can be warmed in a microwave oven at medium power.

The original recipe has half as much cinnamon and eggs.  I added the extra
egg to make the pudding slightly custardy.

If you can get them, Guittard's Vanilla Milk Chips do quite well in this
recipe in place of the chocolate.

If you use a crusty bread, trim crusts from bread before using.  I usually
use Pepperidge Farm's white bread and I don't trim. I think the average
American white bread is not firm enough. I have used a purchased whole
wheat granola bread with quite good results. I think this recipe could
easily be altered to include nuts, chopped dates, chopped dried apples
and/or raisins.

For a richer pudding, try using leftover cake instead of bread.  Once I
even baked a small cake from a mix and chopped that up for this recipe. One
layer makes a double batch. (It was a Dutch chocolate cake, how decadent!)

NOTES:

*  Chocolate bread pudding with cinnamon -- This recipe originally came
from "Chocolate, Chocolate, Chocolate" by Barbara Myers. I have modified it
somewhat.  Yield:  4-6 servings.

: Difficulty:  easy.
: Time:  10 minutes preparation and 15 minutes cooking.
: Precision:  measure the ingredients.

: Suzanne Padgett
: Hadron, Inc., Fairfax, Virginia, USA
: seismo!hadron!suz

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

