Title: CHOCOLATE CHEESECAKE
Categories: Cheesecakes, Usenet
Yield: 16 servings
3 T  Flour, white
3 lg Eggs
2 T  Cream, heavy
2 t  Vanilla
1 C  Sour cream
2 t  Vanilla
2 T  Sugar, granulated
1/2 lb Chocolate wafers,
-finely crushed
1/3 C  Butter, melted
1 1/2 lb Cream cheese,
-at room temperature
1 C  Sugar, granulated
6 oz Chocolate, semisweet,
-melted and cooled
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F.  Mix chocolate wafer crumbs and butter.
Press firmly onto bottom and about 2 inches up the sides of an ungreased,
9-inch springform pan. Bake the crust for 10 minutes. Remove from oven and
place on rack to cool. Reduce oven temperature to 300 degrees F.

Using an electric mixer, beat the cream cheese in a large bowl until it is
smooth.  Add sugar, chocolate and flour.  Beat again, until the mixture is
well blended and fluffy.

Add eggs, one at a time, beating again after each egg is added.  Beat in
the cream and vanilla. Pour mixture into the cooled crust. Place on middle
rack in oven and bake for 60 to 65 minutes, until filling is set. Remove
from oven and cool on rack.

Blend sour cream, vanilla and sugar together until well mixed.  Spread over
top of cooled cheesecake.  Chill several hours or overnight

NOTES:

*  Picture-perfect chocolate cheesecake -- You may have seen this on the
cover of a recent magazine when you were standing in the grocery line. It
makes a very rich, truly decadent chocolate cheesecake.

*  A chocolate wafer is a crisp chocolate cookie about three inches in
diameter and an eighth of an inch thick.  If you can't find them, you can
substitute any kind of dry crunchy chocolate-flavored cookie.

*  You can make the crust and filling in a food processor if you have one.
It makes it a lot easier.

: Difficulty:  moderate.
: Time:  30 minutes to prepare, 70 minutes to cook, several hours to chill.
: Precision:  measure carefully.

: Jonathan Hue
: LMSC-Mechanisms & Servo Systems, Sunnyvale, CA
: {amdcad!cae780 | sun!sunncal | ihnp4!rtgvax} leadsv!msunix!jon

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

