Title: DOUBLE STOUT
Categories: Drinks, Usenet
Yield: 2 cases
1/2    Licorice stick
-(see note below)
1/2 t  Citric acid
1 t  Irish moss
1 1/2 oz Golding hops
2 t  Yeast nutrient
3/4 oz Ale yeast
-(3 standard packages)
3 ga Water
2 1/2 oz Bullion hops
10 lb Dark malt extract
1 lb Black patent malt
2 lb Crystal malt
1/2 lb Barley, flaked
1/4 lb Barley, roasted
1 t  Ascorbic acid
Combine water and Bullion hops.  Boil for 20 minutes.

Add dark malt extract.  Boil for 20 minutes.

Add black patent malt through Irish moss.  Boil for 5 minutes.

Remove from heat and add Golding hops.  Steep for 5 minutes.

Cool and add yeast nutrient and ale yeast.  When fermentation has stopped,
add priming sugar and bottle.

NOTES:

*  Double stout beer -- I would not recommend making this as your first
beer, but if you are into brewing and like a strong stout, then give this
one a try. Don't be in a hurry to drink it, though, it really benefits from
a long aging. I got the original recipe from Peter Lester in
rec.food.drink, and formatted it for my local brewfriends. Then I thought
that the net at large might enjoy it, too, so here it is with some
additional notes from my experience at making it. Yield: Makes about 2
cases.

*  Lester's initial specific gravity was 1.086 and his final specific
gravity was 1.020 (alcohol about 8 percent). His fermentation time was 11
days (a slow batch).

My batch fermented in about a week (house temperature ranging between 60
and 68). It was barely drinkable after 6 weeks, but delicious after 3
months.  As far as I can tell, it's still getting better (a year later),
so try not to drink it all up right away.

*  Ingredient note:  I didn't know what a licorice stick was, until I asked
the clerk at my brewstore.  The one he gave me was about 1/3 inch in
diameter and about 3 inches long. It was dark black, and not sweet to the
taste at all. It seems to be a standard brewing ingredient. Sorry I can't
be more specific about it.

: Difficulty:  For experienced beer brewers only.
: Time:  1 hour preparation, 2 weeks fermenting, 6 months aging.
: Precision:  measure the ingredients.

: Spencer W.  Thomas
: University of Utah, Computer Science Department, Salt Lake City, Utah,
USA
:  thomas@cs.utah.edu

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

