Title: MACARONI AND CHEESE
Categories: Entrees, Usenet
Yield: 6 servings
-don't use sourdough
-crumbs, either)
1 lb Elbow macaroni, uncooked
3    Scallions, chopped
-(up to 5)
1 1/2 lb Swiss cheese
3/4 lb Bacon (optional,
-but I think this
-really makes the dish!)
1/4 C  Butter (Margarine will
-do in a pinch)
1 1/2 C  Bread crumbs (unseasoned;
Cook the bacon until it is very crisp.  When done, blot dry.

Put the butter in a small frying pan and heat at a low temperature until
it's melted. When melted, add the bread crumbs and saute until the bread
crumbs are browned, stirring frequently to avoid burning the crumbs.

Boil the macaroni in water according to directions on the package.  Don't
overcook...  it should be "al dente".  A little olive oil added to the pot
will help prevent the macaroni from sticking together.  While the macaroni
is cooking, grate the cheese and chop the scallions.

When the macaroni is done, drain it in a colander.  The "assembly" is done
in layers into a glass baking dish. Put a layer of macaroni on the bottom,
then cheese, the crumble bacon and scallions on top of this. Make the
layers thin; this way, you can get about three pasta/cheese/bacon layers.
When all of these are in the pan, top with the bread crumbs and bake at 325
degrees F. for 20 minutes or until the bread crumbs are a little more
browned and the cheese is melted.

Eat.  However, it makes fantastic leftovers, so you won't want to eat it
all.

NOTES:

*  Greatest Macaroni and Cheese in the Universe.

*  Cooking the bacon in the oven or in a microwave works well for this
recipe. I find the best way to dry the bacon is to put a couple of paper
towels on top of an old brown paper bag, then the bacon, and then a couple
more paper towels on top of that, and then just pat with the hand a few
times.  It's important to get the bacon dry or the casserole will be too
greasy.

: Difficulty:  easy.
: Time:  20-30 minutes preparation, 20 minutes cooking.
: Precision:  no need to measure.

: Helen Anne Vigneau
: {ihnp4,cbosgd,hplabs,decwrl,ucbvax,sun}!dual!hav
: Dual Systems, Berkeley CA
:
: Hey, there's a great future as a fry cook!  I could be manager in two
years.

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

