Title: MANA'S SPINACH RICOTTA ROLL
Categories: Entrees, Italian, Vegetables, Usenet
Yield: 4 servings
1 1/3 C  Water
1/2 C  Parmesan cheese,
-finely grated
2 C  Marinara sauce
Olive oil
12 oz Spinach, cooked
-(fresh or frozen)
2 C  Ricotta cheese
1 T  Fresh parsley, chopped
3    Egg whites
1 C  Flour, all-purpose
Preheat oven to 325 degrees F.  Cook or thaw spinach and squeeze dry.
Season with a little salt and pepper; set aside.

Mix ricotta cheese with grated Parmesan cheese and chopped parsley; set
aside.

MAKE THE CREPE BATTER:  Mix together egg whites, flour and water, then beat
with a wire whisk to get rid of lumps.

COOK THE CREPES:  Lightly coat a crepe pan with olive oil and heat to
medium. Ladle 2 1/2 T crepe batter into heated pan. The crepe batter should
lightly cover the bottom of the pan in a thin layer. Tilt pan to cover
evenly. When edges of crepe turn lacy and brown and crepe is cooked
through,remove crepe and stack on a plate. Continue until all the batter is
used.

When the crepes are cooked, assemble the rolls:  spoon 2 rounded T  of
ricotta cheese mixture and 1 T spinach mixture on each crepe. Fold or roll
each crepe to seal in mixture.

MAKE AND COOK THE CASSEROLE:  Place rolled crepes in a greased rectangular
casserole dish.  When the pan is full, spoon marinara sauce over crepes.
Bake at 325 degrees F. for 15 to 20 minutes. Serve with grated Parmesan
cheese.

If you don't have a crepe pan, you can use a small (6-inch) frying pan. You
can make your own marinara sauce, or use a prepared marinara or spaghetti
sauce.

NOTES:

*  An Italian vegetable casserole with spinach and cheese -- Mana's spinach
ricotta roll is a dish my roommate makes.  She got the recipe from her
Italian mother. I hope you like it as much as I do.

: Difficulty:  moderate.
: Time:  1 hour preparation, 20 minutes baking.
: Precision:  approximate measurement OK.

: Kathy Blain
: Organization:  California State University, Chico, California, USA
: kgb@csuchico.EDU  lll-crg!csuchico!kgb

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

