Title: MARGARET RUDKIN'S BREAD STUFFING
Categories: Entrees, Holiday, Usenet
Yield: 8 servings
Pepper, freshly ground
1/2 t  Sage
1/2 t  Thyme
1/4 lb Butter, melted
1 lb Bread
1    White onion,
-chopped fine
1 t  Salt
On the weekend before Thanksgiving, set aside some homemade bread, to dry
out. Leave it unwrapped so that it will dry thoroughly.

Thanksgiving morning, cut the bread into thick slices and remove the crust
from each slice.  Dip each slice into cold water, and wring out carefully.
After squeezing each slice dry, crumble it into a large bowl by rubbing
between your hands.

Add salt, pepper, sage, thyme and chopped onion to the bowl, and stir
gently. Pour on the melted butter and toss like a salad.

NOTES:

*  A stuffing recipe from the founder of Pepperidge Farm Margaret Rudkin
founded the Pepperidge Farm bakery as a health-food venture in 1937 because
one of her children was allergic to white bread.  Her family lived on a
farm in Connecticut that had a lot of pretty sorghum trees that the locals
called "pepperidge trees," hence the name. Rudkin's pediatrician asked to
buy loaves of her whole-grain bread for other children with white-flour
allergies, and so the business was started. If you look in cookbooks
published in that era, they mostly say that it is impossible to make bread
from whole grains because the flour was too coarse and the bread would not
hold together.  In its time, this was a very risky venture.

In 1963, Margaret Rudkin published a cookbook with all of her family
recipes. It's called "The Margaret Rudkin Pepperidge Farm Cookbook,"
(Atheneum Press). It is a rare book, and has been out of print for 20
years.  In 1965 Grosset and Dunlap republished it with much wider
distribution, but that book is also out of print.

In general I have found that the recipes in this book are nearly identical
to the products sold by the Pepperidge Farm bakery, and it's a lot of fun
to make your own. Here is her recipe for Thanksgiving turkey stuffing.

*  Rudkin's notes say "taste and sniff as you go, because you might like
more sage or thyme."

: Difficulty:  easy.
: Time:  4 days drying bread, 10 minutes preparation.
: Precision:  no need to measure.

: Brian Reid
: DEC Western Research Laboratory, Palo Alto, California, USA
: reid@decwrl.DEC.COM    -or- {ihnp4,ucbvax,decvax,sun,pyramid}!decwrl!reid

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

