Title: MO'S ANCESTRAL EGGNOG
Categories: Drinks, Holiday, Usenet
Yield: 16 cups
8 C  Whipping cream, heavy
2 t  Nutmeg (or less)
1/2 C  Sugar
12    Eggs, separated
1 lb Confectioner's sugar
2 C  Liquor
Separate the 12 eggs.  Set the whites aside in the 'fridge, tightly covered
for safety, as they won't be needed until much later.  Beat the yolks until
they noticeably lighten in color.  From here on out, an industrial-strength
mixer (Kitchen-Aid K5, for instance) is a big help.

Continue beating the yolks while adding the confectioner's sugar.  Beat for
about 4 minutes or until the mixture turns much lighter yellow and takes on
a satin-like texture. While still beating, slowly add about 2 cups liquor.
[If you decide you need more, this is NOT where you put it in.]

After the liquor is thoroughly beaten in, cover the mixture with  plastic
wrap or aluminum foil and let it stand for 1 hour at room temperature. This
is to cook the eggs and takes much longer if you refrigerate. [I lay
plastic wrap right down on top of the mixture to avoid any possible skin
that might form.]

After standing, add the heavy whipping cream, unwhipped! You could try
whipping it first, but again, you are on your own.  Add the nutmeg. OPTION:
At this point, the original recipe calls for adding an additional 2-4 cups
of liquor, but I omitted this as it passed a taste-test as-is. If you want
your 'Nog a LOT stronger, have at it, but please taste before you pour.

Mix thoroughly, again.  Refrigerate the mixture for 3 hours to let it
ripen. I use two large juice containers. It splits nicely between them and
will fit in our 'fridge. [Overnight is good, if you're making it for, say,
Christmas day, but see the safety note below if you intend to let it sit
overnight.]

At the end of the 3 hours, remember where you put the egg whites.  Beat
them until stiff but not dry, adding about 1/2 cup sugar to slightly
sweeten the whites. N.B.: 12 egg whites whip into quite a mass, so be
prepared.  [You can also whip them 6 at a time. This is probably a very
good idea if you're doing it in a Kitchen Aid, since 12 might overflow the
bowl.]

Pour the whites into the serving bowl you will be using.  Then gently and
slowly pour the other mixture into the bowl, mixing with a whisk to fold it
all together.   The whites should be smoothly and evenly distributed
through the 'Nog to make it fluffy. They will lose some of their bulk so
don't be afraid to mix thoroughly. Sprinkle the top with some more nutmeg,
and serve. A shaker of nutmeg by the bowl is a nice touch for those wanting
a shake on their own mugful. [The first time I made this recipe, I had to
keep re-stirring the mixture. The only difference I can think of is that
the second time I didn't add sugar to the egg whites.]

NOTES:

*  Wonderful Eggnog -- I got this recipe from net.cooks back in 1982.  It
was posted by Mike O'Dell (known around the network as mo). I have made it
for the last two Christmases, and find it quite good. The recipe is
basically as he posted it. I have added a few comments in brackets.
Apparently he served it at a party at LBL-CSAM that year.

This wonderful formula was handed down to me from my grandmother, who got
it from her mother and grandmother. I heartily recommend it as a superior
lubricant for the festive season.  Yield:  Makes about 16 cups.

*  [This makes a large amount of eggnog.  Last year I made a half recipe,
which sufficed for the 10 or so people we had then.  This year I made the
whole thing, and 16 people left some over (some of them don't drink,
though).]

Powered sugar will do nicely, and even granulated would probably work if
you beat long enough.

*  For the liquor, use bourbon, rum, vodka, Canadian blended, or whatever
you like. Being a bourbon fan, I used that in the batch for the CSAM party.
The others should work but I haven't tried them. Depending on taste, you
may want more than this. [I used rum the times I made it.] Enjoy!!!

Difficulty:  moderate;  Time:  1/2 hour preparation, 3 hours waiting;
Precision:  no need to measure.

: -Mike O'Dell;  Arlington, Virginia
: Reposted and annotated by Spencer W.  Thomas:
:    ({ihnp4,decvax}!utah-cs!thomas, thomas@utah-cs.ARPA)
:    Salt Lake City,

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

