Title: NEW MEXICO ENCHILADAS
Categories: Entrees, Southwest, Usenet
Yield: 2 servings
4 oz Tomato sauce
8 oz Water
2    Corn tortillas
2    Eggs
Vegetable oil
1 C  Lettuce, shredded
1 lg Tomato, chopped
1 md Onion, chopped
5 oz Cheddar cheese, grated
1 lb Beef, ground
2    Garlic cloves, minced
-(or less)
1 t  Salt (more or less
-to taste)
Pepper
3 t  Chili powder (or less,
-to taste)
1 T  Flour
Saute the beef over medium heat until it has lost its raw red color,
chopping it with the edge of a spoon into small pieces as it cooks. Add the
garlic and spices and cook another 3-4 minutes. Add salt, pepper and chili
powder to taste. Remember that the flavor of chili mellows as it cooks,
although it won't get less hot. Add the flour to the meat mixture and stir
well.  Add the tomato sauce and water. Simmer gently (uncovered) for about
45 minutes, until it has thickened and the flavors are blended.

Heat about 1/4 inch of oil in a small skillet over medium-high heat, until
it sizzles when a bit of tortilla is dropped in. Soften the tortillas
briefly in the oil, one at a time, about 5 seconds on a side. (Turn with
tongs, being careful not to tear them.) Drain on paper towels. Prepare
another small skillet with a small amount of oil in the bottom, enough for
frying an egg.

Assembling the enchiladas requires you to keep track of several things at
once.  Start an egg frying for each enchilada.  Make sure that the yolk is
cooked soft, not hard! Put one tortilla on a dinner plate.  Cover it with a
medium-thick layer of meat sauce.  Sprinkle chopped onion and grated cheese
on top. Sprinkle lettuce and chopped tomato around the edge. Top with
another tortilla. Cover with more meat sauce, sprinkle more onion and
cheese.  Now top with the fried egg and serve immediately.

NOTES:

*  New-Mexico-style enchiladas with eggs -- This is the way my grandmother
and aunt made enchiladas; I haven't lived in New Mexico myself, but that's
where this recipe came from. Yield: Serves 2.

*  You can also make single-decker enchiladas, for people with small
appetites.  Omit the second layer of tortilla, meat, onion and cheese, but
don't forget the egg.  If you make single-deckers, you will need twice as
many tortillas and twice as many eggs, but the same amount of the other
ingredients.

: Difficulty:  easy to moderate.
: Time:  10 minutes preparation, 45 minutes simmering, 5 minutes assembly.
: Precision:  approximate measurement OK.

: Vicki O'Day
: Hewlett-Packard Laboratories, Palo Alto, CA
: hplabs!oday

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

