Title: SPANISH CREAM
Categories: Desserts, New zealand, Usenet
Yield: 6 servings
2    Eggs
1/2 t  Vanilla essence
1/3 C  Sugar
2 1/2 C  Milk
-(one Imperial pint)
4 t  Gelatine
Save a small amount of the milk; put the rest in a saucepan, together with
the sugar and vanilla and heat.

Separate the egg whites and save for later.  Beat the egg yolks with the
remainder of the milk and add to the heating mixture.

Stir to ensure the sugar is dissolved and bring to near boiling point to
thoroughly cook the eggs.  Do not actually boil.  Take the saucepan off the
heat.  Dissolve the gelatine in about 1/4 cup of boiling water and stir
into hot custard. Pour into serving dish and put into refrigerator to cool.

When mixture has cooled and almost set (it should be shivery at this point)
thoroughly beat the egg whites until stiff and fold them in using a metal
spoon.  Return mixture to refrigerator to properly set.

NOTES:

*  Exquisite New Zealand custard dessert -- This dessert was a family
favourite, and although we used to eat it in conjunction with some flavored
jellies, it's delicious in its  own right.  The recipe comes from my
mother, and I don't know what the Spanish part signifies.

*  The texture of this dessert is supposed to be semi-fluffy.  If you fold
in the egg whites too soon, the liquid custard won't support them and you
end up with a two-layer result, solid custard on top, very light on the
bottom. Some people may like this, but it's not the way I make it. On the
other hand, if you leave things too long, it becomes difficult to fold in
the egg whites at all.

*  It's a good idea to whip the custard a little with a fork prior to
folding in the whites. This breaks up the custard a little.

*  Depending on sweetness of taste, you may wish to alter the amount of
sugar. Our family had a sweet tooth, and I've reduced the original quantity
as it is.

*  One of the amazing things about this dessert is that it's so easy to
make, and yet tastes so good.

: Difficulty:  easy.
: Time:  20 minutes + setting.
: Precision:  approximate measurement OK.

: Peter C.  Maxwell,
: Computer Science Dept., Univ.  of New South Wales, Sydney, Australia
: peterm%cadvax.oz@seismo.css.gov

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

