Title: SPLIT PEA SOUP
Categories: Soups, Legumes, Usenet
Yield: 16 cups
3    Garlic cloves, minced
1/2 C  Parsley (fresh, chopped)
12 C  Beef broth (or any
-other kind of broth,
-or water)
1    Bay leaf
12    Peppercorns (cracked)
6    Green cardamom seeds
-(cracked)
Cognac (good), 1 jigger
1/2 t  Chinese hot pepper oil
1 lb Split peas
1 lb Bacon, chopped
-into small squares
4 oz Butter
2    Celery stalks
1 1/2 C  Yellow onion
-(chopped)
1 C  Potato flakes (instant;
-or, if you are a purist,
-about 2 cups of mashed
-potatoes)
Soak the peas for 6 hours and no more.  Use 1 teaspoon salt per quart of
soaking water.  Drain; discard the soaking water.

Cook the bacon until crisp; drain, dry, and discard fat.  The bacon should
be crisp enough that the pieces will crumble as you stir the soup while it
is cooking. I put it on my broiler pan and bake it for 30 minutes at 400
degrees F.

In a stockpot, put the cooked bacon, the butter, the celery and 1 cup of
the onion. Saute over medium heat until the onion begins to brown. Add the
beef broth, the soaked and drained beans, the mashed potato flakes (or
mashed potato) and the parsley. Simmer for 2 1/2 hours, or until the peas
are tender. Add the remaining 1/2 cup chopped onion and the minced garlic.

In a tea ball, or tied in cheesecloth, put the bay leaves, the peppercorns
and the cardamom seeds. Simmer for another 1/2 hour. Remove the tea ball or
cheesecloth.  Add salt to taste, being careful not to add more than 2
teaspoons.

Pour in the cognac and the hot pepper oil, stir well, and serve
immediately. Sprinkle some chopped fresh chives on top of each bowl after
serving it. If you don't have fresh chives, then stir some dried snipped
chives into the soup 5 minutes before serving it.

NOTES:

*  Pea Soup With Bacon -- Peas and beans make superior cold-weather soups.
They are rich and full of protein.  I developed this recipe as a response
to the flavorful but bland "Senate Bean Soup." Split peas are very healthy,
but when you go adding all of this bacon to them the healthfulness is
diminished a bit in the interests of flavor.

*  Some bacon is very salty.  You can remove most of the salt from it
without materially affecting its flavor by boiling the cut, uncooked bacon
pieces for 1 minute in a few quarts of water, then discarding the water and
then drying the pieces with paper towels before cooking.

*  Because the cooked peas have the ability to block your taste buds
somewhat, make sure you rinse your mouth with a drink of water after each
time you taste the soup while seasoning it, else you will over-season it.
Incremental seasoning of legume soups is tricky, so if you are
inexperienced, measure the seasonings carefully.

*  I like to serve soups like this with unbuttered fresh bread.

*  If you want to fool with the recipe, one of the places to fool with it
is the spices that you put in the tea ball. Try some combination of Indian
seasonings (coriander and cumin and ginger and cloves) or try taking out
the peppercorns and cardamom seeds and putting in mustard seeds.

*  Outside the tea ball, try adding sesame oil at the end instead of the
cognac.  Try adding rutabagas, chopped into cubes, at the beginning of the
cooking.  Try substituting olive oil for the butter and adding a half cup
of grated Peccorino Romano at the end, right before serving. And, of
course, try using ham hocks instead of bacon.

: Difficulty:  easy to moderate (balancing the seasonings can be tricky).
: Time:  6 hours soaking, 45 minutes preparation, 3 or more hours cooking.
: Precision:  Measure the seasonings.

: Brian Reid
: DEC Western Research Laboratory, Palo Alto, Calif., USA
: reid@decwrl.DEC.COM    {ihnp4,ucbvax,decvax,sun,pyramid}!decwrl!reid

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

