Title: STIR-FRIED CHICKEN
Categories: Poultry, Stir-fry, Usenet
Yield: 2 servings
1/2 t  Salt
1/2 C  Vegetable oil
-(peanut oil is best,
-but sunflower oil
-is good, too)
1/2 t  Cornstarch
6 oz Bamboo shoots, canned
-(optional)
6 oz Cashew nuts, broken
-into large pieces
1 lb Chicken breast,
-boneless
12    Mushrooms (white)
1/2 lb Broccoli, fresh
-(or 1 pk frozen)
1/4 C  Chicken broth
2 T  Soy sauce
2 T  Sherry
1 T  Cornstarch
1    Egg white
Cut the boneless chicken breast into bite-sized pieces.  Wash and slice the
mushrooms.  If using fresh broccoli, wash and cut it up into bite-sized
pieces.  If using frozen broccoli, heat it or partially thaw it first.

Combine chicken broth, soy sauce, sherry and about 1 T cornstarch.  Stir
well and set aside.

Combine beaten egg white, salt, about 1/2 t oil and about 2 t cornstarch.
Add the chicken cubes to the mixture and stir until the chicken is
well-coated. In a wok or deep cast iron pan, heat about 3 T vegetable oil
until hot. Add the chicken pieces in small batches and stir continuously
until golden brown. After each batch is finished, remove and drain. Add oil
sparingly as needed.

Stir fry the mushrooms in the wok.  Stir fry the broccoli in the wok.
Combine the chicken, mushrooms, broccoli, bamboo shoots and cashew nuts in
the wok. Stir fry to get everything warm again. Add the bouillon-cornstarch
sauce and stir until thickened.

Serve with rice.  Don't forget to start the rice so that it will be done at
the same time as the chicken.

NOTES:

*  Chinese stir-fried chicken with broccoli and nuts.  Yield:  Serves 2-3.

*  Bamboo shoots are available in cans at Chinese grocery stores.  Fresh
broccoli is preferable to frozen, and it should be stir-fried for only a
few minutes to keep it crunchy. Endless variations of this basic recipe are
possible.  Beef, pork, or other lean meats can be substituted for the
chicken. Tofu cubes or brown beans can be used to make this a vegetarian
recipe. Chopped almonds can be used instead of cashews. Water chestnuts are
a delightful addition. Green or red bell peppers can be used instead of
broccoli.

: Difficulty:  easy.
: Time:  45 minutes.
: Precision:  no need to measure.

: Andy Tanenbaum
: Dept.  of Math and Computer Sci., Vrije Universiteit, Amsterdam, HOLLAND
: ast@cs.vu.nl   seismo!mcvax!cs.vu.nl!ast

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

