Title: TEX-MEX STYLE TACOS
Categories: Meats, Tex-mex, Usenet
Yield: 12 tacos
12    Corn tortillas (the
-thinner the better)
1/2 lb Cheddar cheese,
-sharp, grated
1 lg Tomato, chopped
3 C  Shredded lettuce
2 lb Ground beef,
-extra-lean
1 md Onion, chopped fine
1/2 t  Salt
4 T  Chile powder
-(or more to taste)
Vegetable oil
Brown the ground beef and chopped onion in a large skillet.  There should
be enough fat in the beef to eliminate any need for extra oil and also to
saute the onions at the same time. While you are browning the beef (it
should be completely cooked with no pink or red color left), be sure to
break it up so that it is granular in texture, as opposed to chunky, when
completely browned. Onions should be limp and translucent but not brown.

Drain off as much fat as possible.  Add salt and  chile powder and continue
to saute until the chile is completely incorporated into the meat mixture.
Cover skillet and leave on extremely low heat, just enough to keep the meat
hot.

Put about 1/2 inch of vegetable oil in a small skillet, and heat it.  Test
the oil for proper temperature by putting in a small piece of tortilla.
When the oil reaches the temperature where it immediately begins to bubble
frantically over the tortilla as soon as it is put in the oil and the
tortilla piece becomes crisp quite quickly, you are ready to cook the taco
shells.  This is important because there is nothing worse than a soggy taco
shell (which results from the oil not being hot enough).

Using tongs, put the tortillas in the oil, one at a time,  and cook for
30-60 seconds until the underside just starts to become crisp. With the
tongs, turn the tortilla over and, using a spatula, bend in half to form
the shell. Cook each side of the bent tortilla until crisp, about 30-45
seconds per side. Remove the shell from the oil and drain on a
newspaper-covered cookie sheet. The cooked shells can be kept warm in the
oven at very low heat.

To assemble, fill each shell about 2/3s full of the meat and top with
cheese, tomato and lettuce. We like to add extra zap with a shot of Tabasco
sauce.

NOTES:

*  San Antonio, Texas style tacos -- My dad is from east Texas and my mom
from southern Oklahoma, but they developed their definition of Tex-Mex from
several years in San Antonio. Since they now live in D.C., they feel
extremely deprived, none of the chain restaurants come anywhere near the
taste they developed in San Antonio.

Tex-Mex cooking is based on peasant-style dishes from the areas of Mexico
bordering Texas.  The primary ingredients of Tex-Mex cooking are corn
tortillas (the thinner the better), ground beef, pinto beans and hot chile
powder, sharp Cheddar cheese and onions.  Yield:  1 dozen tacos.

*  Don't try to use instant onion in this recipe.  In San Antonio, people
consider that the best chile  powder is Gebhardt's or Eagle Brand.

: Difficulty:  easy.
: Time:  20 minutes.
: Precision:  measure the spices.

: Pamela McGarvey
: UCLA Comprehensive Epilepsy Program
: {ihnp4!sdcrdcf,ucbvax!ucla-cs,hao}!cepu!pam

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

