Title: Americana Banana Roll Filling
Categories: Tvfn
Yield: 4 servings
3/4 c  (6 ounces) heavy cream
2 tb Sour cream
1 tb Granulated sugar
1 ts Vanilla
Combine the filling ingredients in a 1 1/2 quart deep mixing bowl,
and whip them until some cream dropped from the beater or whisk does
not disappear on the surface of the mixture in the bowl. Another test
is to draw the beater or whisk through the center of the cream in the
bowl; if the track stays in place, you are ready to spread the
filling on the cake. The cream will appear soft, shiny, and smooth
but stiffer than for most desserts. It will coat the cake layer,
sticking to it and staying in place when rolled.

Assembling The Dessert:

Lift the cake on its sheet of foil so that one of its long sides is
parallel to the edge of your counter. (The cake will be rolled
lengthwise.) Spread the cream evenly over the cake with a rubber
spatula, up to 1 inch before reaching the long end farthest from you.
(Some of the filling will move to that end as you roll.)

Begin rolling by flipping the edge of the cake nearest you over onto
itself. Then, with the aid of the foil that extends on either side of
the cake, roll the cake lengthwise until you reach the other end.
With you hands, wrap some of the roil around the roll to assist you
in rounding the shape as you work toward the other end of the cake
(otherwise, the cake will stick to your hands).

Cut each end of the roll on the diagonal for eye appeal, and sprinkle
a light coating of powdered sugar over it to disguise any cracks in
the cake. Lift it onto a serving plate with the aid of a long, wide
spatula or a baking sheet without sides. If desired, decorate top of
roll with Glazed Raspberries.

Glazed Raspberries:

1 cup fresh raspberries, room temperature 3 tablespoons red currant
jelly

To decorate the top of the roll, place the raspberries into a 3 quart
bowl. Heat currant jelly just until it's almost melted, but not hot.
Pour the jelly through a strainer over the berries (push it through
the strainer with a rubber spatula.) Gently slide the rubber spatula
under the berries, and fold the two together. Repeat this three more
times. The object is to coat the berries evenly. Carefully scoop the
raspberries on top of the cake, down the length of the roll.

Yield: 12 servings

BAKERS' DOZEN FLO BRAKER SHOW #BD1A14

