Title: Andouille Crusted Redfish With A Roasted Pecan Vegetable
Categories: Emeril
Yield: 4 servings
6 tb Olive oil, in all
2    (1-inch) slices of zucchini,
Sliced lengthwise
2    (1-inch) slices of yellow
Squash, sliced lengthwise
2    (1-inch) slices of eggplant,
Sliced lengthwise
1 c  Roasted pecans pieces
2 ts Chopped garlic
1/4 c  Chopped green onions
3/4 c  Worcestershire sauce
2    Whole lemons, skin and pith
Removed
2    Bay leaves
3/4 lb Cold butter, cubed
3 oz Andouille sausage, finely
Diced
1 c  Bread crumbs
1 tb Creole Seasoning
4 ea (6 to 8 ounces) redfish
Fillets
2 c  Shoestring potatoes, fried
And seasoned with salt and
Pepper
1 tb Brunoise red peppers
1 tb Brunoise yellow peppers
1 tb Chopped chives
1/4 c  Grated Parmesan cheese
Salt and white pepper
Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F. Season the vegetables with 2
tablespoons of olive oil. Season with salt and pepper. Place the
vegetables on a roasting and roast for 10 minutes. Remove the
vegetables from the oven and cool. Dice the vegetables and set aside.
In a large sauté pan, heat 1 tablespoon of the olive oil. Sauté the
roasted vegetables, pecans, and garlic for 2 minutes. Season with
salt and pepper. Stir in the green onions and keep warm. In a
saucepan, combine the Worcestershire sauce, lemons and bay leaves.
Bring the liquid up to a simmer and simmer the liquid until it
reduces by 2/3, about 4 minutes. Whisk the cold butter cubes into the
sauce, a cube at a time, until all the butter is incorporated. The
sauce should be thick and coat the back of a spoon. Keep the sauce
warm. In a hot sauté pan, render the andouille sausage for 2 minutes.
Remove from the heat and cool the sausage completely. Turn the cooled
sausage into a mixing bowl. Stir in the bread crumbs. Season the
fillets with the Creole seasoning. In a large, oven- proof saute pan,
heat the remaining olive oil. When the oil is hot, add the redfish,
presentation side down first. Sauté the redfish for 4 minutes on the
first side and carefully flip over. Cover the top of each fillet with
a quarter of the andouille crust. Place the sauté pan in the oven and
cook for 5 minutes. To assemble. Spoon the sauce in the center and
around the rim of each plate. Mound the shoestrings in the center of
each plate. Place three piles of the relish around the shoestrings of
each plate. Gently lay each fillet on the pile of shoestring
potatoes. Garnish the plates with red and yellow peppers, chives and
cheese.

Yield: 4 servings

EMERIL LIVE SHOW #EMIA11

