Title: Assorted Individual Danish
Categories: Baker
Yield: 4 servings
1/2    Recipe danish dough
Egg wash (one egg, lightly
Beaten with 2 teaspoons
Milk)
Remonce (cinnamon and plain)
Fillings:
Jam (raspberry and apricot)
Cheese filling
Homemade chunky apple or
Pear sauce or cranberry
Conserve
Cinnamon sugar
Lekvar
Chopped chocolate mixed with
Sugar
Lemon curd (puff tart recipe
With 2/3 cup sugar instead
1/2)
Pastry cream
Toppings:
Streusel
Toasted sliced almonds
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.

On a lightly floured surface, roll the dough out to a rectangle
measuring a little larger than 20 x 10 inches when relaxed.  Brush
off any excess flour.  Square off the edges with a pizza cutter. Cut
the rectangle into 10 (5 inch) squares.  Spread each with remonce
and/or the filling. Form the pastries.  Place on a sheet tray lined
with parchment paper. Proof, in a warm draft free place, covered with
a dish towel, until they are a little puffy and a finger pressed
lightly into the dough leaves a slight indentation. Brush lightly
with egg wash and sprinkle with sugar or topping. Bake about 20
minutes or until golden brown. Cool on a rack. While still warm,
brush lightly with warm apricot glaze or drizzle with icing.

Yield: 10 pastries

Pinwheels:  Spread with remonce.  Sprinkle on some extra cinnamon
sugar. Brush the of the square with egg wash.  Cut a slit from each
corner almost into the center, stopping just short of the center.
Fold every other tip into the center, overlapping them, and press
firmly. Place on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper.  Proof,
covered, about 1/2 hour. Press the center down with your finger where
the tips overlap and fill with 1/2 rounded teaspoon jam or filling.
Eggwash, sprinkle with coarse sugar, and bake about 20 minutes, or
until nicely colored. Envelopes: Spread square with remonce.
Sprinkle with finely chopped chocolate mixed with sugar. Turn the
square so that a point is at the top. Put and elongated mound of
about 2 tablespoons of cheese filling from top to bottom. Egg wash
the side corners.  Fold one corner over the filling and press firmly.
Fold the other end over the top and press very firmly to seal. Place
on lined baking sheet and proof, covered, about 1/2 hour.  Brush with
egg wash and sprinkle with sugar and chopped chocolate.  Bake about
20 minutes, or until nicely browned.  (Or spread with lemon curd and
then cheese filling and garnish before baking with toasted sliced
almonds.)

Cheese pockets:  Spread the square with remonce.  Place a rounded
tablespoon of cheese filling in the middle of the square.  Brush the
corners with egg wash.  Fold two opposite sides up and press firmly,
as in the envelopes above.  Bring the bottom corner up and press
firmly over the fold.  Lastly, bring the top corner up and across the
fold and pinch it to seal.  Proof, covered, as above.  Egg wash and
sprinkle the top with streusel.  Bake about 25 minutes, until nicely
browned.

Turnovers:  Spread with remonce.  Place a big dollop of chunky
homemade applesauce or pear sauce on one side of the square.  Egg
wash the edges and fold over into a triangle.  Press around the edge
with a fork to seal. Proof, etc.  Before baking, egg wash and
sprinkle with coarse or pearl sugar.

BAKERS' DOZEN PEGGY CULLEN SHOW #BD1A39

