Title: Baked Corn Empanaditas
Categories: Toohot
Yield: 4 servings
4 c  Finely ground deep yellow
Masa harina
2 3/4 c  Cold water
1 ts Salt
Stuffing:
3 tb Olive oil
1 md Onion, finely chopped
1    Clove garlic, minced
1    Jalapeno pepper, seeded and
Finely chopped
1 ts Ground cumin
1 ts Coarse salt
1/2 ts Freshly ground black pepper
1 lg Tomato, peeled, seeded and
Finely diced
1/2 lb Potatoes, cooked and cut
Into 1/4inch dice
2 c  Fresh corn kernels (about 5
Ears)
1/2 bn Chopped Italian parsley
1/2 c  Grated Anejo cheese
Glaze:
1    Egg white
2 tb Water
1/2 ts Coarse salt
Combine the masa harina, water and salt in a large mixing bowl and
stir until smooth. The dough should be slightly sticky and form a
ball when pressed together. To test, flatten a small ball of dough
between your palms. If the edges crack, add water to the dough, a
tablespoon at a time, until a test piece does not crack. Cover with a
damp towel until ready to use.

Heat the oil in a large skillet over moderate heat. Add the onion and
sautJ until soft, 3 to 5 minutes. Ad the garlic, jalapeno, cumin,
salt and pepper and sautJ 1 minute longer to release the aromas. Add
the tomato, potatoes and corn and cook, stirring occasionally, until
the liquid from the tomatoes is absorbed, 2 to 3 minutes. Remove from
the heat, stir in the parsley and cheese and correct the seasoning.
Set aside to cool.

Divide the dough into 24 golfball size pieces, moistening your hands
with water to prevent sticking if necessary. Flatten balls to 3 inch
disks. Place a heaping teaspoon of stuffing on the empanada and close
by pressing the edges together with your fingers. Shape into a half
moon. Repeat until all the halfmoons are formed. Preheat the oven to
375 degrees F. Line a baking sheet with parchment paper and arrange
the empanaditas on top. Brush with the glaze and prick with a fork to
make steam holes. Bake for about 2530 minutes, or until golden.
Remove and transfer to a rack to cool slightly. Serve warm.

Yield: 4 to 6 servings

TOO HOT TAMALES SHOW #TH6354

Dough:

