Title: Banana Cream Pie
Categories: Tvfn
Yield: 4 servings
Flaky Pie Dough for a 1
Crust pie, above
Filling:
2 1/2 c  Milk
2/3 c  Sugar
pn Salt
1/3 c  Cornstarch
3 lg Eggs
4 tb Unsalted butter, softened
2 ts Vanilla extract
2 lg Bananas, sliced
Topping:
1 c  Heavy cream
2 tb Sugar
1 ts Vanilla extract
Prepare and bake the crust.

To make the filling, combine 2 cups milk, sugar and salt in a
nonreactive saucepan; whisk once to mix and bring to a boil over low
heat. Place remaining 1/2 cup milk in a mixing bowl and whisk in
cornstarch, then eggs. Return milk and sugar mixture to a boil over
low heat then whisk about a third of it into the egg mixture. Return
milk and sugar mixture to a boil once more and whisk in the egg
mixture, whisking constantly until the filling thickens and comes to
a boil. Allow to boil, whisking constantly, for about 30 seconds.
Remove from heat, whisk in butter and vanilla; pour into a
nonreactive bowl. Press plastic wrap against the surface of the
filling and chill until it is approximately 75 degrees.

Fold the bananas into the cooled filling and spread it evenly in the
cooled crust.

To finish the pie, whip the cream with the sugar and vanilla until it
holds a firm peak. Use a hand mixer on medium speed or a heavy-duty
mixer fitted with the whisk. Spread the cream over the filling,
making sure it touches the edges of the crust all around.

COCONUT CREAM PIE: For the 2/3 cup sugar in the filling substitute
1/3 cup sugar.

Substitute 1/2 cup coconut cream, such as Coco Lopez, for the 1/2 cup
milk with which the cornstarch is mixed. After the filling has
cooled, fold in 1/2 cup toasted sweetened coconut. After covering the
pie with the whipped cream, (you may add up to 1/4 cup coconut cream
to the cream before whipping it to replace the sugar) sprinkle the
whipped cream with 1/2 cup toasted sweetened coconut. (To toast
coconut, place it on a jelly roll pan on the middle rack of a
preheated 325 degree oven for about 15 minutes. Stir often so that
the coconut colors evenly to a light golden brown.)

Yield: one 9-inch pie

BAKERS' DOZEN NICK MALGIERI SHOW #BD1A16

