Title: Basic Pie Dough
Categories: Tvfn
Yield: 4 servings
2 c  All-purpose flour
1/2 ts Salt
6 oz Cold unsalted butter, cut
Into cubes
1/4    To 1/3 cup ice cold water
To prepare the dough by hand, combine the flour and salt in a
stainless steel bowl, using a pastry knife mix well.

Add the cold butter cubes to the flour and mix in until the mixture
begins to resemble a mealy mixture where the butter forms pea sized
nuggets plainly visible in the flour. Add only enough ice water to
pull the dough together. The water should be added to the flour
slowly to ensure that only the minimum amount of water is used. Do
not over mix the dough. When the dough has been mixed just
sufficiently to combine the ingredients, form it into a ball and wrap
in a piece of plastic and refrigerate for several hours.

When ready to use, lightly flour a pastry board and a rolling pin, and
unwrap the dough. Divide the dough into 2 equal pieces and begin to
roll out the first piece into the bottom crust.

Tamp down the dough with the pin and gently begin to roll out into a
circular pie shape by rolling evenly outward from the center and
turning the dough in small 1/8th turns to keep the rolling even. When
the dough is rolled out to an even thickness and is about 12 inches
and is about 1/8th-inch thick it is ready to be transferred to a
10-inch pie tin.

Lightly butter the tin, lift the dough with the rolling pin by
partially rolling the dough up on the pin, center the dough in the
tin and unroll. Pierce it in several places with the tines of a fork.

Roll the second half of the pie dough into a round shape slightly
larger than the pie pan. Fill the bottom crust with your chosen fruit
filling. Cover the filling, such as apple, with the top half of the
pie dough. Using both hands, crimp the edges of the two crusts
together to seal. With a sharp knife, make several crosshatch slits
in the top crust. Brush with the egg wash and bake in a preheated 375
degree oven for 35 to 40 minutes. Remove from the oven and cool for
20 minutes.

Yield: 2 12-inch pie crusts

MICHAEL'S PLACE SHOW #ML1A34

