Title: Bear Claws, Danish Twists, Danish Pockets
Categories: Desserts, Emeril
Yield: 4 Servings
1    Basic Danish dough
1/2 c  Egg wash
1/2 c  Almond filling
1/2 c  Blanched almonds, crushed
1/2 c  Apricot glaze
1/2 c  Whipped sweetened cream
Cheese
1/4 c  Raspberry jam
1/4 c  Blueberry jam
**Divide the dough in thirds. A separate recipe for each type of
Danish is preferred. Increase the fillings for each type. This recipe
makes about 6 of each, depending on size of Danish.

Bear Claws:

Roll the dough out to 1/8-inch thick.  The longer the dough the more
claws yielded.  Egg wash the entire piece of dough.  Spread a thin
layer of almond filling horizontally down the center third of the
dough. Fold the bottom third of the dough up to cover the filling.
Fold the top third of the dough down, like your folding a business
letter. Egg wash the dough. Sprinkle with crushed almonds.  Cut
2-ounce portions. Make three slashes into the side of each portion,
and spread gently into a horse-shoe shape to separate the toes. Proof
until dough in size about 15-20 minutes. Bake until golden brown,
about 10-12 minutes. Brush with apricot glaze.

Danish twists:

Roll the dough 1/8-inch thick. The longer the length the more twists
yielded. Egg wash the dough lightly, sprinkle the entire surface with
cinnamon sugar. Fold the dough in half from top to bottom. Slice
2-ounce strips with a pastry wheel. Twist loosely into desired
shapes. Place on a baking sheet. Egg wash each twist. Proof until the
dough doubles in size, about 15-20 minutes. Bake until golden, about
10-12 minutes. Remove from the oven and brush with apricot glaze.

Filled Pockets:

Roll the dough about 16 inches x 24 inches x 1/4-inch thick. Egg wash
the dough. Cut the dough into 4 squares. Fold two opposite corners to
overlap the center of the square. Egg wash the center portion of the
pastry. Fill the open corners with the cheese or fruit filling. Proof
the dough until dough in size, about 15-20 minutes. Bake until
golden, about 10-12 minutes. Remove from the oven and brush with
apricot glaze.

