Title: Beef Wellington
Categories:
Yield: 8 servings
MMMMM--------------------EMERIL LIVE #EMIA32-------------------------
1    Beef tenderloin, trimmed and
Chain removed (about 3 to 4
Pounds)
5 tb Olive oil
1 c  Minced onions
2 tb Minced shallots
4 c  Assorted exotic mushrooms
2 ts Chopped garlic
3/4 c  Red wine
1/2 c  Chopped parsley
1/2 lb Foie Gras, sliced into
1 oz Slices
1 c  Port wine syrup
2    Pieces of frozen puff
Pastry
1    Egg beaten with 1 tablespoon
Water
1 tb Finely chopped mushrooms,
Sauteed in butter
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Season the tenderloin with salt and
pepper. In a large saute pan, heat 3 tablespoons of olive oil. When
the oil is hot, sear the tenderloin for 2 to 3 minutes on all sides.
Remove from the pan and cool. In a saute pan, heat the remaining
olive oil. Add the onions and saute for 2 minutes. Season with salt
and pepper. Add the shallots and saute for 1 minute. In a mini food
processor, add the mushrooms in batches and pulse the mushrooms a few
times to finely chop the mushrooms. Add the mushrooms to the onions
and saute for 2 minutes. Add the red wine and bring the liquid up to
a simmer. Cook for about 3 to 4 minutes or until most of the liquid
as dissipated and the mixture is dry. Remove from the heat and stir
in the parsley. Reseason the duxelle if necessary. Cool the duxelle
completely.

Season the Foie Gras slices with salt and pepper. In a hot saute pan,
sear the Foie Gras for 30 seconds on each side. Remove the Foie Gras
from the pan and drain on a paper-lined plate. Place Foie Gras on a
clean plate and add the port wine syrup. Set aside. To assemble;
place the two sheets of puff pastry together, vertically, sealing the
ends and forming one big piece of pastry. Lay the seared tenderloin
in the center of the puff pastry. Smear the duxelle over the top of
the tenderloin. Lay the seared Foie Gras directly on top of the
duxelle. Wrap the tenderloin in the puff pastry, tucking the sides in
completely. Brush the entire tenderloin with the egg wash and place
on a baking sheet. Bake the tenderloin for about 30 to 35 minutes for
medium rare, or until the pastry is golden brown. Remove the
tenderloin from the oven and allow to rest for 5 minutes before
serving. Serve the Wellington with a drizzle of the port wine sauce
and sprinkle with sauteed mushrooms.

Nutritional information per serving:  xx calories, xx gm protein, xxx
mg cholesterol, xx gm carbohydrate, xxx mg sodium, x gm fiber, xx gm
fat (x gm sat, x gm mono, x gm poly), x mg iron, xx mg calcium, xx%
of calories from fat.

Brought to you by MMCONV and Sylvia Steiger, SylviaRN (at) compuserve
(dot) com (change characters as needed, this is to prevent bulk
E-mailers from capturing my address), moderator of GT Cookbook and
FringeNet Lowfat & Luscious echoes.  For breadmachine tips and mixes,
visit my homepage: http://ourworld.compuserve.com/homepages/SylviaRN

