Title: Black Forest Cake
Categories: Taste
Yield: 4 servings
6 oz Bittersweet chocolate, cut
Into bits
6 tb Unsalted butter
1 ts Vanilla extract
L/3 cup water
6 lg Eggs at room temperature
1 c  Sugar
I cup cake flour
1/2 ts Salt
For the filling:
2 lb Canned sour cherries,
Drained, reserving the
Juice
L/3 cup sugar
5 ts Cornstarch
2 tb Kirsch
For the syrup:
1/2 c  Sugar
1/2    Water
L/4 cup Kirsch
For the whipped cream
Topping
l  Envelope of unflavored
Gelatin
3 tb Kirsch
3 c  Well-chilled heavy cream
1/3 c  Sifted confectioner's sugar
l  Teaspoon vanilla
l  1/2 cups chocolate shavings
And curls glaceed cherries
For garnish
Make the cake: Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter three 7-inch cake
pans, line them with wax paper and butter and flour the paper. In the
top of a double boiler set over simmering water melt the chocolate
with the butter, vanilla and water, stirring until smooth. Remove the
pan from heat. Into a bowl sift together the flour and salt. In a
bowl with an electric mixer beat the eggs with the sugar for 5 to 10
minutes, or until batter ribbons when beaters are lifted. Fold flour
mixture into egg mixture until just combined and fold in chocolate
mixture gently but thoroughly.

Pour batter into pans, smoothing the tops, and bake for 10 - 15
minutes, or until cake tester inserted in center comes out clean. Let
cool in pans 5 minutes. Run knife around edge of pans and invert onto
racks to cool completely.

Make the filling: In a saucepan combine reserved cherry juice, sugar
and cornstarch. Bring mixture to a boil over moderate heat, stirring,
and simmer, stirring, for 1 to 2 minutes, or until thickened. Stir in
cherries and kirsch, transfer to a bowl and let cool. Filling may be
made 1 day in advance and kept covered and chilled.

Make the syrup: In a saucepan combine the sugar and water, bring to a
simmer, stirring, and simmer until sugar is dissolved. Remove pan
from heat and stir in Kirsch. Let cool.

Make the whipped cream topping: In small saucepan combine gelatin and
Kirsch and let soften 5 minutes. Gently heat mixture over low heat,
stirring, until liquid is clear. Remove from heat. In chilled bowl
with chilled beaters beat cream until it holds soft peaks, add sugar
and vanilla and beat until it holds stiff peaks. Add gelatin mixture
in stream, beating, and beat until it holds stiff peaks.

Assemble cake: Invert one layer of cake onto a cardboard round, brush
with some of syrup and spread half cherry filling over it. Spread 1
1/2 cups of whipped cream over cherries, sprinkle with 1/4 cup
chocolate shavings and invert second layer of genoise onto cake.
Brush with syrup, spread with remaining cherry filling and top with 1
1/2 cups whipped cream, spreading it into an even layer. Sprinkle
with 1/4 cup of chocolate shavings and invert third genoise layer
onto cake. Brush top with syrup and spread remaining whipped cream
over top and sides of cake reserving about 2/3 cup for garnish. Coat
side of cake with some of remaining chocolate shavings. Transfer
remaining whipped cream to a pastry bag fitted with a large star tip,
pipe rosettes decoratively around top edge of cake and top each
rosette with glaceed cherry. Sprinkle top of cake with remaining
chocolate shavings and let cake stand, covered and chilled, for at
least 3 hours and up to 8 hours.

Yield: 8 to 10 servings

Recommended Wine: Pedro Ximenez Montilla Alvear

TASTE SHOW #TS4803

For the cake:

