Title: Blueprint For Veal Stew
Categories: Try it
Yield: 8 servings
MMMMM----------------COOKING MONDAY TO FRIDAY #MF---------------------
4 lb Veal shoulder cut into 1
Inch cubes, patted dry
1/4 c  Vegetable oil
3 tb Butter
2    Carrots, finely cubed
1 lg Onion, thinly sliced
1    Stalk celery finely minced
2    Cloves minced garlic
1/2 c  Dry white wine
Beef broth or veal stock
1 tb Or so of beurre manie,
(paste made in equal
Proportions of
Butter and flour)
MMMMM-----------------------BOUQUET GARNI----------------------------
Parsley
Bay leaf
Peppercorns
Preheat the oven to 325 degrees.

In an oven proof casserole, heat, until very hot, half of the oil. In
small batches brown the veal cubes on all sides. When one batch is
done, add more oil if you need to and continue to brown until all the
veal is done. Discard the fat in the casserole and replace it with
the butter. Add the carrot, onion and celery, cover and simmer 5
minutes or until onions are translucent. Add the white wine and boil
down for a minute or until alcohol has evaporated. Return the veal
cubes to the casserole with garlic and add just enough broth to
barely cover the veal. Bring the liquid to a boil, add the bouquet
garni, put a buttered piece of parchment or brown paper on top of the
meat, then a lid on the casserole and set in the oven. Cook for 1 1/4
to 1 1/2 hours or until the meat is tender.

Remove casserole from the oven and strain the contents through a
sieve and the liquid into another saucepan; discard bouquet garni.
Divide solids into 2 batches. Degrease the liquid and boil it down
until reduced to 3 cups. Remove 1 1/2 cups of the liquid and add it
to half of the meat. Return the other half of the veal to the
remaining liquid. Season with salt and pepper. Thicken with beurre
manie if you wish. Serve with rice, polenta or potatoes; garnish with
parsley.

Nutritional information per serving:  xx calories, xx gm protein, xxx
mg cholesterol, xx gm carbohydrate, xxx mg sodium, x gm fiber, xx gm
fat (x gm sat, x gm mono, x gm poly), x mg iron, xx mg calcium, xx%
of calories from fat.

Brought to you by MMCONV and Sylvia Steiger, SylviaRN (at) compuserve
(dot) com (change characters as needed, this is to prevent bulk
E-mailers from capturing my address), moderator of GT Cookbook and
FringeNet Lowfat & Luscious echoes.  For breadmachine tips and mixes,
visit my homepage: http://ourworld.compuserve.com/homepages/SylviaRN

