Title: Boiled Hen And Spicy Dumplings
Categories: Emeril
Yield: 4 servings
1 lg Hen (about 5 to 7 pounds)
Salt
Freshly ground black pepper
3 c  Chopped onions
1 1/2 c  Chopped carrots
1 1/2 c  Chopped celery
2    Jalapenos, chopped
6    Cloves of peeled garlic
3    Bay leaves
4    Sprigs of fresh thyme
2 c  All-purpose flour
1 tb Plus 1 teaspoon baking
Powder
1 ts Salt
4 tb Solid vegetable shortening
1/2 c  Milk
1/2 c  Heavy cream
1/2 c  Chopped green onions, green
Part only
2 tb Finely chopped parsley
Leaves
Rinse the hen under cool water and pat dry. Season the hen with salt
and pepper. Place the hen in a large stock pot. Add the onions,
carrots, celery, jalapenos, garlic, bay leaves and thyme to the pot.
Add enough water (1 gallon) to cover the hen. Season with salt and
lots of black pepper. Bring the liquid to a boil and reduce to a
simmer. Simmer the liquid for about 2 hours or until the meat falls
of the bones. Skim off the scum from the stock every 30 minutes.
Remove from the heat and cool for about 20 minutes. Strain the stock
through a fine mesh strainer, reserving the stock, the hen, and 1 cup
of the cooked vegetables. Place the stock in a smaller stock pot and
bring the liquid to a simmer. Remove the meat from the hen,
discarding the skin and bones. Tear the meat into smaller pieces. In
a mixing bowl, combine the flour, baking powder and salt together.
Using a fork, mash the reserved cooked vegetables. Stir the mashed
vegetables and milk into the flour mixture. Stir to incorporate
completely. Lightly dust the surface with flour. Turn the dough
mixture out onto the floured surface. Dust the top of the dough with
flour. Lightly press out the dough very thin, about 1/8-inch thick.
Using a sharp knife, cut the dough into strips, 2 inches long and
1-inch wide. Add the cream to the simmered liquid. Add the dumplings
to the simmering liquid. Cook the mixture, stirring occasionally for
about 30 minutes. Stir in the green onions and parsley. Serve warm.

Yield: 6 to 8 servings

EMERIL LIVE SHOW #EMIB04 BARNYARD BASH

