Title: Braised Duck With Red Curry
Categories: Try it, Main dish, Poultry
Yield: 6 servings
MMMMM-----------------TAMALES WORLD TOUR #WT1A08----------------------
2    (5pound) ducks
Salt and freshly ground
Black pepper
1/4 c  Rendered duck fat or oil
16 md Shallots, thinly sliced
8    Garlic cloves, minced
2 tb Freshly grated ginger
1/4 c  Thai red curry paste
5 c  Brown duck stock or chicken
Stock
1/4 c  Fish sauce
14 oz Coconut milk
3 tb Palm sugar or brown sugar
1/4 c  Fresh lime juice
2 bn Cilantro, chopped, stems
Trimmed
2    Limes, peeled and diced
1 bn Scallions, white and 1/2 the
Green part, trimmed, thinly
Sliced
Along diagonal
Bone ducks and remove the skin. (You can ask a butcher to do this,
reserving the carcass for stock making and skin for rendering.) Cut
breasts in half, then into about 3 pieces across the width. Chop legs
and thighs into about 4 pieces each. (Remember: You want to start
with generous pieces of meat, since they will shrink when cooked.
Don't worry about cleaning the tendons, since they will soften with
long cooking.) Sprinkle meat with salt and pepper.

Heat rendered fat in a large, heavy bottomed Dutch oven over high
heat. Brown duck on all sides, then transfer meat to a platter.
Reduce heat to medium low and cook shallots until well browned, about
15 minutes. Add garlic and ginger, increase heat to medium high and
cook about a minute, then add curry paste. Cook, stirring constantly,
about 3 minutes. Return duck meat to pot along with brown duck stock
and cook at a slow simmer, uncovered, until meat is tender, about 40
minutes.

With a slotted spoon, transfer meat to a platter and reserve in a warm
place. Puree sauce in a blender and strain back into pot. Cook over
high heat until liquid is reduced by one third. Stir in fish sauce,
coconut milk, sugar, and lime juice, and remove from heat. Stir duck
back into warm sauce. Ladle stew over Jasmine Rice. Garnish with
remaining ingredients and serve immediately.

Nutritional information per serving:  xx calories, xx gm protein, xxx
mg cholesterol, xx gm carbohydrate, xxx mg sodium, x gm fiber, xx gm
fat (x gm sat, x gm mono, x gm poly), x mg iron, xx mg calcium, xx%
of calories from fat.

Brought to you by MMCONV and Sylvia Steiger, SylviaRN (at) compuserve
(dot) com (change characters as needed, this is to prevent bulk
E-mailers from capturing my address), moderator of GT Cookbook and
FringeNet Lowfat & Luscious echoes.  For breadmachine tips and mixes,
visit my homepage: http://ourworld.compuserve.com/homepages/SylviaRN

