Title: Brocheta De Filetes Stilo El Arrecife
Categories: Tvfn
Yield: 4 servings
6    (8inch) wooden skewers
8    Cascabele chiles, stemmed
And seeded
2 1/2 c  Water
1/4 c  Olive oil
1/2    White onion, thinly sliced
4    Cloves garlic
1    Roasted tomato (see Note)
1 ts Cumin seeds
2    Bay leaves
1 ts Freshly ground black pepper
3/4 ts Salt
3 lb Beef filet, cut into 3/4inch
Cubes
2    Green bell peppers, sliced
Into 1inch squares
2 lg Red onions, sliced into
1    Inch squares
Freshly ground black pepper
2 tb Olive oil
Salt and freshly ground
Black pepper
8 lg Corn Tortillas, for serving
Soak the skewers in water for at least 1 hour, preferably 2 or 3.

To make the sauce, toast the chiles directly over a gas flame or in a
castiron skillet until soft and brown, turning frequently to avoid
scorching. Transfer the roasted chiles to a saucepan and add the
water. Bring to a boil, reduce to a simmer and cook for 10 minutes,
or until softened. Transfer the chiles and cooking water to a blender
and puree until a smooth paste forms. Set aside. In a medium, heavy
saucepan heat the oil over mediumhigh heat.

Saute the onion for about 8 minutes, stirring occasionally, until
golden. Add the garlic and stir for a moment, just to release the
aroma, then add the reserved chile paste, tomato, cumin, bay leaves,
pepper, and salt. Reduce the heat to mediumlow and cook, partially
covered, for about 20 minutes more, stirring occasionally. Return the
sauce to the blender and blend again until smooth, adding a little
more water if necessary to make the sauce move freely. Let cool.

Drain the skewers and make the brochettes by alternating cubes of
beef, bell pepper, and red onion pieces. Leave 2 inches at the bottom
of each skewer bare so that you will have room to grab and turn them.
Heat a grill or griddle pan to high heat. Brush the skewers with a
little olive oil and season to taste. Grill for 1 minute on each
side, then brush generously with the sauce. Grill for another minute
on each side, or until done to your liking. Spread a little of the
sauce on each of 6 warm plates and serve a brochette in the center
and a warm corn tortilla on the side. Pass the remaining sauce.

Yield: 6 servings

Note: To roast a tomato, heat a dry skillet or griddle over high heat.
Roast the whole tomato, turning when the bottom is slightly charred,
until it is golden brown with charred patches on all sides, but not
burned (the flesh will be quite mushy). Leave the skin on.

TOO HOT TAMALES SHOW #TH6189

