Title: Buche De Noel Glace
Categories: Tvfn
Yield: 4 servings
1 qt Good quality coffee frozen
Yogurt or low fat ice cream
6 lg Eggs, separated
1 ts Vanilla extract
3/4 c  Sugar
1/4 ts Cream of tartar
1/4 c  Dutch Process cocoa
Additional cocoa for
Dusting
For the meringue topping:
1/4 ts Cream of tartar
3 ts Water
1/2 c  Sugar
3    Egg whites
2 tb Powdered sugar
Bittersweet Chocolate Sauce,
Optional
Equipment:
Two 17 1/2 x 11 1/2 inch
Jelly roll pans
Instant read thermometer
14 x  4 inch piece of corregated
Cardboard wrapped in foil
Form the sheet of frozen yogurt:  Line the bottom and sides of one of
the pans with aluminum foil.  If the frozen yogurt is rock hard,
refrigerate it briefly until softened slightly; it must be scoopable
but still very firm. (Note that frozen yogurt melts much more quickly
than ice cream, so it must be very firm when we begin to work with
it.) Distribute scoops of yogurt all over the pan. Working quickly
and leaving about 4 inches at one end of the pan uncovered, spread
the yogurt evenly in the pan by mashing the scoops with he back of a
large spoon and pushing them together. Cover with foil and freeze at
least several hours or until needed. Make the cocoa souffle sheet:
Position the rack in the lower third of the oven and preheat to 350
degrees F. Line the bottom of the second pan with a piece of
parchment or wax paper. In a large bowl, beat the egg yolks with
vanilla and 1/2 cup of the sugar until pale and thick. Set aside. In
a separate mixing bowl, with clean dry beater, beat the egg whites
and cream of tartar on medium speed until soft peaks form. Gradually
sprinkle in the remaining sugar, continue to beat at high speed until
stiff but not dry. Fold a quarter of the egg whites into the yolk
mixture to lighten it. Scrape the remaining whites into the bowl and
sift the cocoa over them. Fold until completely incorporated. Spread
the batter evenly in the pan and bake until the pastry springs back
when gently pressed with fingertips, 12 to 15 minutes. Cool
completely, in the pan on a wire rack. Sprinkle a large sheet of foil
with cocoa.  Run a small knife or metal spatula around the edges of
the cocoa pastry to detach it from the pan. Invert the cocoa pastry
onto the foil sheet.  Remove the pan and peel the paper pan liner
from the cocoa pastry. Assemble the roll: Remove the sheet of frozen
yogurt from the freezer and remove the foil covering.  Center and
invert the yogurt sheet on top of the cocoa souffle sheet.  Remove
the pan and the foil. The long edges should be lined up and but there
should be 2 inches of cocoa souffle exposed at each end. Fold the
exposed pastry over the yogurt at one end of the sheet. Continue to
roll the pastry and yogurt up together, using the foil underneath as
an aid as necessary. Do not worry if there is some initial cracking
as you roll, however, if the yogurt is much too stiff to roll, wait a
few minutes until it is pliable.  Wrap the roll in foil and return to
the freezer overnight or until hard. Preheat the oven to 425 degrees
F. Make the meringue topping: Bring 1-inch of water to a simmer in a
large skillet. Combine the water, cream of tartar and sugar in a 6 to
8 cup stainless bowl.  Whisk in the egg whites.  Place thermometer
near stove in a mug of very hot tap water.  Set bowl in skillet. Stir
mixture briskly and constantly with a rubber spatula, scraping the
sides and bottom often to avoid scrambling the egg white. After 1 1/2
minutes, remove the bowl from the skillet. Quickly insert
thermometer, tilting bowl to cover stem by at least 2 inches. If less
than 160 degrees F, rinse thermometer in simmering skillet water and
return it to mug. Replace the bowl in skillet. Stir as before until
temperature reaches 160 degrees F when bowl is removed.  Beat on high
speed until cool and stiff.  Set aside. Remove the frozen roll from
the freezer and unwrap it.  Place the roll on the foil wrapped
cardboard.  Use a metal spatula to cover the roll completely with a
thick coating of meringue topping.  Leave no cake exposed and be sure
that the meringue touches the foiled cardboard all along the base of
the roll. Use a fork to texture the meringue to resemble tree bark.
Transfer the buche on its foiled base to a baking sheet. Sieve
powdered sugar over the buche.  Bake just until golden, 4 to 6
minutes, watching carefully. Slide a wide spatula or pancake turner
under the foiled cardboard and transfer the buche to a serving
platter.  Serve immediately with Bittersweet Chocolate Sauce, if
desired.

Yield: 12-14 servings

NUTRITIONAL INFORMATION: Calories per serving: 246, fat: 9 g 31
percent calories from fat: Protein 7.2 g; carbohydrates 37.7 g;
cholesterol 95.3 mg

BAKERS' DOZEN ALICE MEDRICH SHOW #BD1A48

For the cocoa souffle sheet and filling:

