Title: Bulgur Breads
Categories: Breads
Yield: 4 servings
1 1/2 c  Fine or medium bulgur
1 1/2 ts Salt
2 c  Boiling water
1/2 c  Minced onion
Approximately 2 cups
Unbleached hard white or
All-purpose flour
You will need a medium-sized bowl, a food processor (optional),
unglazed quarry tiles to fit on the bottom rack of your oven, and a
rolling pin.

Place the bulgur and salt in a food processor, pour the boiling water
over, and stir or process briefly to mix.  Let stand for thirty
minutes. When you come back to the bulgur mixture, it will look like
the bulgur has totally absorbed the water.  However, proceed by
adding 1 cup flour and the minced onion, and process for 1 minute.
The dough should come together into a large ball as you process. If
it doesn=t, feel the dough: If it feels dry and floury, start the
processor, add 2 tablespoons warm water and process for 30 seconds;
again if the bulgur and flour still dont come together, add another 2
tablespoons water and process.  Once a ball of dough forms, process
for 2 to 3 minutes longer, then turn out onto a well-floured surface.
(If your processor is too small to handle the whole dough, work with
half at a time, adding 1/2 cup flour to each portion, then combine
when you turn out of the processor and knead by hand). Knead by hand
for 4 to 5 minutes.

Alternatively, if you do not have a food processor, combine bulgur,
salt and boiling water in a medium-sized bowl and let stand for 30
minutes. Add onions and 1/2 cup flour and stir in.  Add another 1/2
cup flour and use your hands to fold flour into the dough.  With a
little persistence, you will soon have a dough (although somewhat
sticky) that you can knead. Turn out onto a well-floured kneading
surface and knead for 6 or 7 minutes. Dough will be sticky at first,
but will soon come together into a smooth workable dough; you may be
surprised to discover how kneadable bulgur is.

When finished kneading, cover the dough with plastic wrap and let
stand until you are ready to proceed further, for 15 minutes to an
hour, whatever is convenient.

To bake, have your oven preheated to 450 degrees with baking stone or
quarry tiles in place on a rack in the bottom third of the oven.
Divide the dough into 8 pieces, and flatten each on a well-floured
bread board. With a rolling pin, roll out one or two breads until
very thin, about 8 to 10 inches in diameter.  Work with only one or
two at a time, as many as will fit in your oven.  When ready, handle
the bread gently as you place it on the hot tiles.  (You can also try
dusting a peel or the back of a baking sheet with flour and using
peel or sheet to transfer breads to hot tiles.) Bake on one side for
1 1/2 to 2 minutes then turn over to the other side for 1 to 1 1/2
minutes. The bread should begin to brown around the outside. When
baked, keep breads warm by stacking them one on top of the other and
wrapping them in a clean kitchen towel.  Serve warm.

The dough for this cracker-like unyeasted flatbread is easily mixed
in the food processor. The breads have a wonderful aroma as they bake
and a satisfying savory taste, for the dough is made of full-grain
bulgur, with only a little flour, and flavored with minced onion. The
breads bake quickly in the oven. Bulgur breads go wonderfully with
cheese, or strong flavors. Leave them to dry out and use as crackers,
or wrap in a cloth to keep chewy and supple.

Yield: 8 Thin, Supple And Slightly Chewy Flatbreads Betwee

BAKERS' DOZEN ALFORD AND DUGUID SHOW #BD1A28

