Title: Cheddar Crust Apple Pie (Little Pie Company)
Categories: Taste
Yield: 4 servings
Cheddar Dough:
1 1/4 c  Unbleached all-purpose flour
1/4 c  Cake flour
1/4 ts Salt
1    Stick unsalted butter,
Frozen solid, slightly
Thawed
2 tb Lard or vegetable shortening
Frozen solid, slightly
Thawed
1 c  Grated extra-sharp Cheddar
Cheese
2 ts White vinegar mixed with 1/3
c  Very cold water
Apple Filling:
6    To 7 large Delicious apples
(3 pounds), peeled, cored
And sliced thinly
Into 1/16-inch thick slices
2 tb Freshly-squeezed lemon juice
1 c  Sugar, plus additional for
Sprinkling
1/3 c  Unbleached all-ppurpose
Flour
3/4 ts Cinnamon
3/8 ts Salt
2 tb Unsalted butter, softened
1    Egg beaten with 1 tablespoon
Cold water, for glaze
Make dough: In workbowl of a food processor fitted with metal blade
combine flours and salt. Cut butter and lard into small pieces, add
to workbowl and process 5 seconds. Add cheese and pulse on-off 2
times to mix. With motor running, pour in enough vinegar mixture in a
slow steady stream for dough to form a ball; process 10 to 15
seconds. Turn dough out onto work surface. If dough appears too dry,
work in 1 to 2 more teaspoons water. Specks of butter and cheese will
be visible in dough. Shape dough into a disk, wrap in plastic wrap
and chill at least 2 hours or overnight before using.

Make filling: Preheat oven to 425 degrees F. As you slice apples,
toss them gently with lemon juice. Whisk together sugar, flour,
cinnamon and salt, add to apple slices and toss gently to coat evenly.

Divide dough into 2 unequal pieces, making piece for top crust
slightly larger. On a lightly-floured work surface roll smaller piece
into an 11-inch round. Line pie plate with bottom crust and fill with
apples. Using your hands shape them into a firmly-packed mound
slightly higher in center than at sides; dot with butter. Trim edges
of bottom crust to a 3-inch overhang. Roll out remaining dough to an
11-inch round and arrange over filling. Trim edges of top crust to a
:-inch overhang, fold top crust under edge of bottom crust and flute
edges decoratively, pressing together with your thumb and forefinger.
Cut 3 1 3/4-inch slashes in center of top crust.

Bake pie 20 minutes. Reduce oven temperature to 375 degrees F and
continue to bake 30 to 40 minutes more, until pastry is golden brown
and juices are bubbling. Ten minutes before end of baking, brush top
with egg glaze and sprinkle with sugar. Cool on a wire rack before
serving slightly warm or at room temperature.

Yield: 8 Servings

TASTE SHOW #TS4661

