Title: Chicken Delmonico
Categories: Emeril
Yield: 4 servings
4    6-ounce skinless chicken
Breasts, each breast cut
Into four equal strips
Essence
1 c  Plus 2 tablespoons flour
2 c  Fine dried bread crumbs
2    Eggs beaten with 2
TB milk
6 tb Butter
1/2 c  Minced onions
Salt and black pepper
4 c  Sliced assorted Exotic
Mushrooms, such as shiitake,
Oyster,
Chanterelle or black
Trumpet
4    Fresh artichoke hearts,
Blanched until tender
Juice of two lemons
2 tb Chopped garlic
1 1/2 c  Heavy cream
2 tb Finely chopped fresh
Parsley
16 lg Leaves of fresh spinach
3 tb Olive oil
1    Recipe of Cheesy Bacon
Grits
Preheat the fryer. Season the chicken with Essence. Season 1 cup of
the flour and bread crumbs with Essence. Dip each strip of chicken in
the flour. Dip each strip in the egg wash, letting the excess drip
off. Dredge the strips in the bread crumbs, coating each strip
completely. In a large saute pan, over medium heat, melt two
tablespoons of the butter. Pan-fry the chicken in batches (using
another 2 tablespoons of butter) until golden brown on each side,
about 2 to 3 minutes on each side. Remove the chicken from the pan
and place on a paper-lined plate. Season the chicken with Essence.
Using a paper towel, wipe the saute pan clean. Melt the remaining
butter in the saute pan. Stir in the remaining flour and cook for 1
minute. Add the onions and saute for 2 minutes. Season with salt and
pepper. Add the mushrooms and continue to saute for 2 minutes. Season
with salt and pepper. Add the artichokes, lemon juice and garlic and
continue to saute for 2 minutes. Season with salt and pepper. Stir in
the heavy cream and bring the liquid to a simmer. Cook the mixture
until the cream thickens and the sauce coats the back of a spoon,
about 3 to 5 minutes. Remove the sauce from the heat and stir in the
parsley. reseason if needed. Fry the spinach leaves in the hot oil
for about 30 seconds. Remove the spinach from the oil and drain on a
paper-lined plate. Season the spinach with salt and pepper. To serve,
spoon the grits in the center of each plate. Lay four strips of
chicken on top of each plate of grits. Spoon the mushroom and
artichoke sauce over the chicken. Garnish with fried spinach.

Yield: 4 servings

EMERIL LIVE SHOW #EMIA73

