Title: Chocolate Hazelnut Kisses
Categories: Toohot
Yield: 4 servings
6 oz Whole hazelnuts
2 ts Baking soda
1/4 c  Sugar
1 c  Heavy cream
1 lb Bittersweet chocolate,
Chopped finely
2 tb Unsalted butter
2 tb Amaretto or other nut
Liqueur, or dark rum
(optional)
1 lb Tempered chocolate for
Dipping
Preheat oven to 350 degrees.  Bring large pot of water to the boil
and add the baking soda.  Drop in the hazelnuts, bring back to a
boil, and blanch 10 seconds.  Drain hazelnuts in a colander, then
spread out on a baking sheet in a single layer.  Place in oven and
roast 8 to 10 minutes until light brown.  Remove from oven, place a
kitchen towel over the pan, and allow to cool completely.  Rub cooled
hazelnuts between your palms; the skins should slip right off. Set
aside 50 whole hazelnuts. Grind the rest very fine in a food
processor fitted with the metal blade and set aside. Place sugar and
heavy cream in a medium pot and bring to a boil. Add the chopped
chocolate, let sit for 2 minutes, then whisk until smooth. Whisk in
the butter.  Pour the ganache into the bowl of an electric mixer and
allow to cool until set.  Fit the machine with a paddle and beat the
set ganache on medium speed until aerated and fluffy, about 2
minutes. Beat in the reserved ground hazelnuts and the liqueur if
using. Beat well to thoroughly combine.  Load mixture into a pastry
bag fitted with a 1/2-inch plain tip. Line a baking sheet with
parchment or waxed paper. Pipe out 1/2-inch balls. On top of each
ball, press in one of the reserved whole toasted hazelnuts until it
is halfway buried.  Place pan in refrigerator to chill completely. To
coat, place tempered chocolate in a medium bowl. Line 2 baking sheets
with parchment or waxed paper.  Get yourself 2 forks. Place one
nuttopped ball on the prongs of one fork, nut up. Lower the fork into
the melted chocolate, covering completely. Lift fork up, pause 3
seconds to allow excess chocolate to drip off, then run bottom of
fork along top of bowl to remove excess chocolate. Place fork on
paperlined pan and use second fork to push off the candy while you
withdraw the first fork (it's easier than it sounds).  Keep the nut
up at all times.  Repeat with remaining centers. If it's warm out,
place the finished candies in the refrigerator to set; otherwise they
will set at cool room temperature (65 degrees). Yield: about 50 Both
of these candies make great Christmas presents packed into little
boxes or baskets. They are involved but can be done easily in large
batches.  One day of work can yield many gifts. You can make a double
of triple batch of truffle ganache and divide it, beating different
flavorings into different parts.

TOO HOT TAMALES SHOW #TH6349

