Title: Chocolate Drenched Fruit
Categories: Tvfn
Yield: 4 servings
2 1/2 lb Semisweet chocolate, chopped
Into 1/4-inch pieces
1 lb Red seedless grapes, stemmed
Washed and dried
3/4 lb Dried pineapple slices
3/4 lb Dried peach halves
3/4 lb Dried pear halves
2 pt Strawberries with stems,
Lightly rinsed and dried
Heat 1- inch of water in the bottom half of a double boiler over
medium heat. Place 1 pound of semisweet chocolate in the top half of
the double boiler. Tightly cover the top with plastic wrap. Allow to
heat for 12 minutes. remove from the heat and allow to stand for 5
minutes before removing the plastic wrap. Use a rubber spatula or
whisk to stir until smooth, and continue to stir until the
temperature of the chocolate is reduced to 90 degrees Fahrenheit.

Line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper. Place the grapes in a
stainless steel bowl. Pour the melted chocolate over the grapes. Use
a fork to transfer the chocolate-drenched grapes, one at a time, onto
the parchment paper-lined baking sheets. Refrigerate the
chocolate-drenched grapes for 10 to 15 minutes, until the chocolate
has hardened. Transfer the grapes to the center of a large serving
platter and refrigerate. Heat 1- inch of water in the bottom half of
a double boiler over medium heat. Place 1 pound of semisweet
chocolate in the top half of the double boiler. Tightly cover with
plastic wrap. Allow to heat for 12 minutes. Remove from the heat and
allow to stand for 5 minutes before removing the plastic wrap. Use a
rubber spatula or whisk to stir the chocolate until smooth, and
continue to stir until the temperature of the chocolate is reduced to
90 degrees. One at a time, dip 3/4 to 1-inch of each dried fruit into
the melted chocolate. Allow excess chocolate to drip into the top
half of the double boiler before placing the drenched fruit onto
parchment paper-lined baking sheets. Refrigerate the
chocolate-drenched fruit for 10 to 15 minutes, until the chocolate
has hardened. Transfer the chocolate-covered fruit to the large
serving platter, arrange the fruit near the outside edge of the
platter, and return to the refrigerator. Place 1/2 pound of semisweet
chocolate in the top half of the double boiler. Proceed as in above
method.

Holding the strawberries by the stem end, dip 3/4 to 1-inch of each
berry, one at a time, into the melted chocolate. Allow excess
chocolate to drip into the bowl before placing the drenched
strawberries onto the parchment paper-lined baking sheets.
Refrigerate the chocolate-drenched berries for 10 to 15 minutes,
until the chocolate has hardened. Transfer the chocolate-covered
berries to the serving platter, placing them in between the grapes
and the dried fruit, and return to the refrigerator.

Keep the drenched fruit refrigerated until 10 to 15 minutes before
serving.

BAKERS' DOZEN MARCEL DESAULNIERS SHOW #BD1A21

