Title: Chocolate Mascarpone Cream
Categories: Baker
Yield: 4 servings
21 oz Mascarpone cheese
11    L/2 ounces milk chocolate,
Cut into small pieces
8    Eggs, separated
L/2 cup granulated sugar
2 tb Kahlua
2 tb Rum
Unsweetened cocoa, sifted,
For decoration
About l/4 cup coarsely
Grated milk chocolate, for
Garnish
For the Soaking Liquid:
4 c  Espresso coffee,
Decaffeinated or regular
l  L/4 cups water
l  Cup sugar
3 tb Kahlua
3 tb Rum
In The Large Bowl Of An Electric Mixer, Using Paddle Or Be mascarpone
until fluffy, scraping down the sides of the bowl and under the
beaters as necessary.

Meanwhile, in a medium bowl, set over simmering water, melt the
chocolate. Set aside.

In a large heatproof bowl, set over simmering water, whisk the egg
yolks with l/4 cup sugar until sugar dissolved and mixture is hot to
the touch. Remove from heat and scrape into the mascarpone.  On
medium speed, beat just until combined.  Lower speed, add the melted
chocolate, and mix well.

In a large bowl of the electric mixer, using the whip attachment,
whip the egg whites to soft peaks.  Add the remaining l/4 cup sugar
and continue to beat until shiny and firm but not stiff.  Fold into
the mascarpone mixture. Stir in the Kahlua and rum.  Refrigerate
until needed.

For the Soaking Liquid

In a small pot, combine all of the ingredients, bring to a boil.
Remove from the heat and let cool.

To assemble the Tiramisu

I like to use parfait or Pilsner glasses for this dessert.  Place all
of the glasses on a flat work surface.  Cut out cake circles that
will fit into the size glass your using.  Using a ladle, place a
small amount of Mascarpone cream in the glass, dip a cake circle in
the soaking liquid (squeeze out any excess) and place on top of the
cream. Ladle more cream on top of the circle, place another soaked
circle of cake and finish with a layer of cream.  Repeat this with
all of the glasses. Refrigerate for about an hour or until set.
Decorate with grated milk chocolate and sifted cocoa.

Yield: 12 servings

BAKERS' DOZEN MARY BERGIN SHOW #BD1A43

