Title: Chocolate Truffle Squares
Categories: Tvfn
Yield: 4 servings
5 oz Good quality bittersweet or
Semisweet chocolate, chopped
Into
Pieces no bigger than
1/4    -inch
2    Eggs, separated, at room
Temperature
1 ts Vanilla extract
1    Egg white, at room
Temperature
1/8 ts Cream of tartar
1/2 c  (unsifted) unsweetened Dutch
Process Cocoa
2 tb All purpose flour
2/3 c  Plus 1/4 cup sugar
3/4 c  Lowfat (1 percent) milk
Optional garnish:
49    Perfect fresh raspberries, 5
To 6 ounces
2    To 3 tablespoons red current
Jelly or raspberry
Preserves
9 x 9 inch cake pan, Baking pan or roasting at least 2 inches deep and
large enough to hold the cake pan with at least 2 inches to spare on
each side.

Position the rack in the lower third of the oven and preheat to 350
degrees. Line the bottom and sides of the pan with foil. Put a kettle
of water on to boil for the bain marie when baking in the oven.

Place chocolate in a large mixing bowl. Combine the 2 egg yolks with
vanilla in a small bowl. Place the 3 egg whites in a medium bowl with
cream of tartar. Set all 3 bowls aside.

Combine the cocoa, flour and 2/3 cup sugar in a 1 1 1/2 quart heavy
bottomed saucepan. Whisk in enough of the milk to form a smooth
paste. Mix in the remaining milk. Cook over medium heat, stirring
constantly with a wooden spoon, to prevent burning (especially around
the bottom edges of the pot), until mixture begins to simmer. Simmer
very gently, stirring constantly, for about 1 1/2 minutes, or until
the mixture visibly thickens. Pour the hot mixture immediately over
the chopped chocolate. Stir until chocolate is completely melted and
smooth. Whisk in egg yolk mixture. Set aside.

Beat the egg whites and cream of tartar at medium speed until soft
peaks form. Gradually sprinkle in the remaining 1/4 cup of sugar,
beating at high speed until stiff but not dry. Fold a quarter of the
egg whites into the chocolate mixture to lighten it. Fold in
remaining egg whites. Scrape mixture into the cake pan and spread
evenly. Set cake pan in baking pan and place on oven rack. Pour
enough boiling water into the baking pan to come a third to halfway
up the sides of the cake pan.

Bake for exactly 20 minutes. The cake will only be about 3/4 inches
tall. The surface will spring back when gently pressed but cake will
still be quite gooey inside. Remove cake pan and water pan from oven.
Remove the cake pan from the water and cool completely on a rack.
Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate overnight before serving.
Refrigerate up to 2 days or freeze up to 2 months.

After the truffle sheet is well chilled, lift the edges of the foil to
remove the truffle sheet from the pan. Cut the sheet into 7 strips,
each about 1 1/4 inches wide, using a long thin sharp knife dipping
in hot water and wiped dry between each cut (the cake is very sticky)
or cut with dental floss. Cut each strip into 7 squares. Transfer
each square to a fluted paper candy cup and or arrange on a serving
platter. If garnishing with raspberries, simmer the preserves for a
minute or until thick and sticky. Touch the hot preserves with the
bottom of each berry before placing it on the truffle square.
Refrigerate until serving.

Yield: 49 truffle squares

NUTRITIONAL INFORMATION PER SQUARE: 44 Calories per serving: 1.5
Grams fat,

1 gram protein, 8.2 grams carbohydrates, 8.8 Mgs cholesterol.

BAKERS' DOZEN ALICE MEDRICH SHOW #BD1A50

