Title: Chocolate Velvet Pound Cake with Chocolate Glaze
Categories: Baker
Yield: 4 servings
1 1/4 c  Sugar
1 c  All purpose flour
1/4 c  Plus 2 tablespoons
Unsweetened Dutch Process
(alkalized) cocoa
1/4 ts Baking powder
1/4 ts Baking soda
1/4 ts Salt
4 tb Unsalted butter, softened to
Room temperature
1 lg Egg
2 lg Egg whites
2 ts Instant espresso powder
Freeze dried coffee crystals
(optional)
1/2 c  Lowfat plain yogurt
1 ts Vanilla
Powdered sugar for dusting,
Optional
GLAZE:
1/3 c  Light brown sugar
1/4 c  Unsweetened Dutch process
Cocoa powder
1/3 c  Lowfat milk
1/4 ts Vanilla
6 c  Fluted tube pan sprayed with
Vegetable oil spray
Preheat oven to 350 degrees.  Position rack in lower third of the
oven. On low speed with an electric mixer, mix the sugar, flour,
cocoa, baking powder, baking soda, and salt until thoroughly combined.

Add the softened butter, whole egg, and egg whites.  Set a timer for 2
minutes as you begin beating on medium speed.  As soon as the dry
ingredients are moistened, increase the speed to high and continue
mixing until the 2 minutes are up.  Stir the optional espresso powder
into the yogurt, if you are using it.  Add the yogurt and vanilla to
the batter. Beat at high speed for exactly 2 more minutes.

Scrape the batter into the pan.  Bake 3035 minutes or just until a
thin wooden skewer inserted in the center of the cake comes out
clean. Do not over bake.  Cool in the pan on a wire rack for ten
minutes before unmolding on the rack to cool completely.  Serve
sprinkled with powdered sugar.

Make the Glaze:  In a small heavy bottomed saucepan, combine the brown
sugar with the cocoa.  Use a wooden spoon to stir in just enough milk
to form a smooth paste.  Stir in the remaining milk. Cook over medium
heat until mixture simmers, and finally begins to boil, stirring
constantly and scraping the sides and bottom edges of the saucepan
religiously. Boil gently for 1 1/2 minutes, stirring constantly to
prevent burning. Off heat, stir in vanilla.  Cool to room
temperature. Spoon glaze over cake.

Yield: 12 servings.

NUTRITIONAL INFORMATION PER SERVING: 209 calories; 5.4 grams of fat

(23 percent calories from fat); 3.78 g protein; 37.2 g carbohydrates;
28.8 mg cholesterol.

BAKERS' DOZEN ALICE MEDRICH SHOW #BD1A47

