Title: Chocolate Lollapaloozas
Categories: Baker
Yield: 4 servings
1 c  Unsalted peanuts
1 1/2 c  Granulated sugar
1/4 ts Cream of tartar
1/4 c  Water
1/2    -ounce unsweetened chocolate
Chopped into 1/4-inch
Pieces
12 oz Semisweet chocolate, chopped
Into 1/4-inch pieces
Preheat the oven to 325 degrees. Toast the peanuts on a baking sheet
in the preheated oven for 1

minute. Cool to room temperature. Process the peanuts in the bowl of
a food processor fitted with a metal blade until finely chopped,
about 8 to 10 seconds. Set aside.

Heat the sugar, cream of tartar and water in a 1 1/2-quart saucepan
over medium-high heat. When hot, stir with a whisk to dissolve the
sugar. Bring to a boil. Boil the mixture, stirring often, for 8 to 10
minutes, until the mixture takes on a light honey color. Remove the
pan from the heat. Add the unsweetened chocolate, and stir gently
(and carefully, this is very hot stuff) to incorporate.

One at a time, dip 1-inch of one end of each popsicle stick into the
hot sugar mixture. Divide the dipped stick onto 4 nonstick baking
sheets, leaving lots of space between sticks. Use a metal spoon to
stir the mixture for 3 to 4 minutes, until it begins to get very
syrupy in texture (even though I said texture, that doesn't mean you
can touch, it's still too hot to handle at this point). Pour a full
tablespoon of the sugar mixture over the dipped ends of each stick,
allowing the mixture to flow into a round lollipoplike shape. Allow
the chocolate lollipops (that's right, they're not lollipaloozas yet)
to harden at room temperature.

Heat 1-inch of water in the bottom half of a double boiler over medium
heat. With the heat on, place the semisweet chocolate in the top half
of the double boiler. Use a rubber spatula to stir the chocolate until
completely melted and smooth, about 3 minutes. transfer the melted
chocolate to a 1-quart bowl. Place the chopped peanuts on a baking
sheet. Grasp (or perhaps you would prefer to hold) a chocolate
lollipop by the stick end and dip the hardened sugar end into the
chocolate to completely cover. Allow excess chocolate to drip off
before sprinkling chopped peanuts on both sides to cover the
chocolate. Place the lollipalooza on a baking sheet. Repeat with
remaining lollipaloozas. Refrigerate to harden the chocolate. Store
in a tightly sealed plastic container in the refrigerator until ready
to serve.

BAKERS' DOZEN MARCEL DESAULNIERS SHOW #BD1A24

