Title: Chorizo Toluqueno
Categories: Toohot
Yield: 4 servings
1/2 lb Pork fat, cut into 1/2-inch
Cubes, placed in the freezer
For 20
Minutes
2 md Ancho chiles, stemmed,
Seeded, and deveined
2 md Pasilla chiles, stemmed,
Seeded, and deveined
1/2 ts Coriander seeds
1/4 ts Ground cinnamon (from
Cinnamon stick)
1    Clove
1 ts Dried oregano
1/4 ts Black peppercorns
1/4 ts Freshly ground nutmeg
1/4 ts Ground ginger
2 tb Best-quality paprika
2 tb Salt
4    Cloves garlic, minced
3 tb Cider vinegar
1 lb Lean boneless pork shoulder
4    To 5 feet of hog casings, in
1    Or 2 pieces
Place a griddle or cast ion skillet over medium heat. Tear the chiles
into large flat pieces and toast them a few at a time, pressing them
down with a spatula. When they blister and change color, flip over
and toast the other side. Cool and transfer to a coffee grinder
reserved for grinding spices. Add the coriander, cinnamon stick,
clove, oregano, and peppercorns. Pulverize the spices and sift
through a medium-mesh sieve into a large bowl. Add the nutmeg,
ginger, paprika, an salt, then stir in the garlic and vinegar.

Set up a meat grinder fitted with the coarse grinding plate and the
sausage stuffing attachment, or use a sausage-stuffing funnel for the
stuffing

procedure. Mix together the pork fat, loin, and shoulder and run them
through the grinder into the bowl with the spices. Mix the meat and
the seasonings briefly but thoroughly with your hands. Cover and
refrigerate overnight.

If the castings were packed in salt, rinse them for an hour before
using. Run water from the tap through each length of casing to check
for leaks; either cut the casing where it leaks or discard the piece
(to be useful, a casing should be at least 30 inches long wit no
leaks).

Thread one end of a piece of casing over the suffer or the funnel
mouth, pushing it all the way on but leaving a 3-inch overhang for
tying off. Begin feeding the sausage meat through; when it first
comes out, clamp off the end so that the sausage expands to a 1-inch
diameter. If there is an air bubble, stop the machine and work the
bubble out towards the funnel end. Feeding the sausage through the
grinder in an uninterrupted flow, slowly move the casing away from
the suffer as the sausage fills in a continuous 1-inch diameter link.
When the sausage is about 6 inches long, pull off an extra 1 inch of
casing and twist several times, completing one link and starting
another. Continue until all of the sausage meat has been cased,
stopping to thread more casing on as necessary.

Either twist the links several more times to separate them, or tie
pieces of string between them. Place on a rack in the refrigerator,
uncovered, for about 36 hours or until dry to the touch and somewhat
firm. Set a dish underneath to catch drips. Wrap in plastic and again
refrigerate until ready to use.

Yield: 1 1/2 pounds fresh sausage, 1 pound after air-drying.

TOO HOT TAMALES SHOW #TH6250

