Title: Christmas Bombe
Categories: Desserts, Tvfn
Yield: 1 Servings
6 oz Fresh cranberries
1/4 c  Plus 2 tablespoons sugar
1/4 c  Raspberry preserves
Hot Milk Sponge Sheet, baked
And cooled, recipe above
White Chocolate Mousse with
Kirsch, recipe above
1/2 c  Strained apricot preserves
2    To 3 tablespoons minced
Unsalted  pistaschios
Special Equipment: One 6 cup bombe mold or bowl with similar capacity
(the one I use is 7 1/4 inches in diameter and 3 1/2 inches deep) One
7-inch round corregated cake circle

Make Cranberry-Raspberry Puree:  Rinse and pick over cranberries and
combine with sugar in small nonreactive saucepan.  Cover and bring to
simmer over medium heat.  Uncover, raise heat and stir occasionally.
Cook only a few minutes or until about three-fourths of the berries
are burst, about 5 minutes.  Remove from heat.  Press mixture through
a medium-fine strainer or food mill along with the raspberry
preserves. Discard tough dry pulp and raspberry seeds. Cool the puree
completely before using. Puree may be made and refrigerated up to 1
week in advance.

Assemble and Freeze the Jelly Roll:  Reverse the Hot Milk Sponge
sheet onto a piece of foil; peel off the parchment.  Turn sponge
carefully over again (use a cookie sheet to aid you if sponge is
delicate) so that brown side faces up.  Spread all of
Cranberry-Raspberry Puree evenly over sponge. Roll up as tightly as
possible to form a 16 by 17-inch long thin jelly roll. Wrap tightly
in foil and freeze at least several hours or overnight--or up to 1
month in advance of using.

Line the Bombe with Jelly Roll Slices:  Remove frozen jelly roll from
freezer and unwrap.  Trim ragged ends if necessary.  Use a sharp
serrated knife to cut slices 1/4-inch thick.  Line the mold with the
slices by placing one slice in the center of the bottom of the mold.
Next fit 7 (or more) slices around the center pushing and fitting so
that no space is left between the slices.  Fit the next 9 (or more)
around the bowl starting up the sides.

Finish by fitting about 10 slices to completely line the mold ,
pushing and fitting so that no space is left Trim slices even with
the rim of mold if necessary, or just push them so they are flush
with the rim. Reserve trimmings and remaining slices and return them
to freezer until needed. Set lined mold aside.

Fill the Mold:  Make the White Chocolate Mousse with Kirsch.  Turn it
immediately into the lined mold.  Level and smooth the surface of the
mousse.  Remove the remaining slices of jelly roll and trimmings from
the freezer.  Set aside just enough slices to completely cover the
mousse if placed tightly together - But do not put them in place,
yet. Dice the remaining slices and any trimmings with a sharp knife.
Scatter the diced pieces all over the mousse, and then fit the
reserved slices closely together over the scattered dice to form the
bottom layer of the dessert

Place the corregated cake circle (or a small plate) inside the mold
and press firmly to level and compact the bombe.  Wrap and
refrigerate at least 4 hours before unmolding and serving.  Bombe may
be completed to this point up the 24 hours in advance of serving, or
frozen up to 2 months.

Unmold, Finish and Serve:  Invert the mold and rap the edge sharply on
counter to release dessert.  Simmer strained apricot preserves in a
small saucepan for 2-3 minutes to make a glaze.  Use a pastry brush
to paint the entire dessert with glaze.  Touch bottom edge of bombe
with minced pistachios.  Refrigerate until serving.

From: CHEF DU JOUR ALICE MEDRICH SHOW #DJ9152

