Title: Cobb Salad
Categories: Taste
Yield: 4 servings
2    Whole chicken breasts
1    Head iceberg lettuce,
Trimmed, washed, and dried
1    Head romaine, trimmed,
Washed, and dried
1 bn Watercress
1 bn Chicory
4 tb Chopped chives
4 md Tomatoes, peeled and seeded
2    Ripe avocados
1 lb Bacon
6    Hard-boiled eggs
2 c  Finely grated Roquefort
Cheese
2 c  Cobb's Old Fashioned French
Dressing (recipe follows)
Place the chicken breasts in a shallow pan or deep skillet and cover
by about one inch with cold water. Bring to a simmer over medium heat,
maintain the heat at a simmer, and poach the breasts for 10 to 12
minutes, depending on their size. Remove the pan from the heat and
allow the chicken to cool to room temperature. When the chicken is
cool, remove it from the stock (which can be strained and used for
another purpose), remove and discard the skin and bones, and chop the
meat finely.

Meanwhile, cook the bacon until it is crisp. Drain the bacon well and
chop in roughly, by hand or in a food processor. Place the chopped
bacon on paper towels and dry further, in a conventional oven on a
low heat or in a microwave oven, until it separates into bits. This
process may need to be repeated 2 or 3 times, depending on the fat
content of the bacon used.

Place the Roquefort cheese in the freezer for about 15 minutes; then
remove the cheese from the freezer and grate it, using a cheese or
vegetable grater. Cut the tomatoes into small dice and sprinkle with
salt and pepper. Halve, peel, and dice the avocados; sprinkle with
salt and fresh lemon juice. Using a food processor, chop the greens
finely, into 3/16 inch bits, but do not reduce them to mush. Finely
chop the hard boiled eggs.

To assemble the salad, place all the greens in a large bowl and toss
them together; spread the greens evenly in the bottom of the bowl.
Arrange the bacon, egg, chicken, tomato, and cheese in strips across
the greens; arrange the chopped avocado around the edge of the salad.
Bring the salad to the table with the dressing alongside and toss
together just before serving.

Note: The ingredients can be prepared several hours in advance,
covered, and kept in the refrigerator; remove the ingredients about
15 minutes before assembling the salad.

Yield: 8 to 10

TASTE SHOW #TS1G22 CLASSIC CALIFORNIA SALADS (Recipe Courtesy of The
Brown Derby)

