Title: Coloradito (Red Oaxacan Mole)
Categories: Emeril
Yield: 4 servings
The Chicken-
1 lg Chicken (about 3 1/2 pounds)
Cut into serving pieces
1 md White onion, roughly
Chopped
1 sm Head of garlic, scored
Around the middle
4    Fresh marjoram or oregano
Sprigs
4    Fresh thyme sprigs
4    Sprigs fresh flat-leaf
Parsley
Sea salt to taste
The Sauce:
12    Chiles guajillos or
Chilcostles
1/2 lb (about 2 small) tomatoes,
Stewed
4 tb Melted lard or safflower
Oil
1/4 c  Sesame seeds
1 1/2 tb Dried oregano
2    Whole cloves
2    Whole allspice
1 md White onion, thickly sliced
9 sm Garlic cloves, peeled
1    3-inch cinnamon stick,
Broken into thin strips
1 sm Ripe plantain, peeled and
Cut into thick rounds
3 sl French bread
1 oz Mexican chocolate
Sea salt to taste
3 c  Cooked white rice, seasoned
12    Corn tortillas, warm
Put the chicken into a pan with the onion, garlic, and herbs; cover
with water and add salt to taste. Bring to a simmer and continue
simmering until the chicken is just tender, about 20 to 25 minutes.

Remove the stems, if any, from the chiles, slit them open, and remove
veins and seeds.

Toast the chiles on a hot comale for a few seconds on each side,
pressing them down until the inside flesh turns an opaque, tobacco
color. Rinse the chiles in cold water, cover with hot water, and set
aside to soak for about
15    minutes.

Put the tomatoes into a blender jar and blend briefly. Heat 1
tablespoon of the lard and fry the sesame seeds for a few seconds
until a deep golden brown. Transfer with a slotted spoon, draining
them as much as possible, to the blender jar; add the oregano, cloves
and allspice and blend until smooth, adding a little more of the
water in which the chiles were soaking if necessary.

Add more lard to the pan and heat; add the onion and garlic and fry
until translucent.

Add the cinnamon pieces and fry until the onions and garlic are
lightly browned.

Transfer with a slotted spoon to the blender jar. Add the plantain and
bread to the pan and fry over low heat until a deep golden color;
transfer to the blender jar. Adding more chile water if necessary,
blend until you have a smooth puree. Gradually add the soaked chiles
with more water as necessary and blend until smooth. When all the
chiles have been blended, dip a spoon into the bottom of the blender
jar and take out a sample of the sauce to see if the rather tough
chile skins have been blended sufficiently. If not, add a little more
water, stir well, and then blend for a few seconds more.

Heat the remaining lard in a heavy pan or saute pan, add the blended
sauce and chocolate, and cook over medium heat, stirring and scraping
the bottom of the pan to prevent sticking, for about 15 minutes. Add
2 cups of the chicken broth and the chicken pieces, taste for salt,
and cook for 15 minutes more. The sauce should be fairly thick and
lightly cover the back of a wooden spoon.

Serve with white rice and tortillas.

Yield: 6 to 8 servings

EMERIL LIVE SHOW # EMIB34 FOOD OF OAXACAN, MEXICO

