Title: Crab Cakes
Categories: Try it
Yield: 4 Cakes
MMMMM-----------------ESSENCE OF EMERIL #EE2441----------------------
1    Egg
1 tb Dijon mustard
1 ts Minced garlic
1/2    Lemons; juice of
1 c  Oil, olive plus 1
Tablespoon
Salt and pepper
1/2 c  Chopped onions
1/4 c  Chopped red peppers
1/4 c  Chopped yellow peppers
1 lb Lump crab meat, picked over
For cartilage
1 tb Creole mustard
1 tb Finely chopped parsley
2 c  Fine bread crumbs
1 c  Flour
Essence
1    Egg, beaten
1/4 c  Milk
1/2    - 3/4 cup vegetable oil for
Frying
1/2 c  Fried leeks
2 tb Chopped green onions
1 tb Brunoise red peppers
1 tb Brunoise yellow peppers
In a food processor with metal blade, pulse the egg, mustard, garlic
and lemon juice for 1 minute. In a steady stream, add 1 cup of oil.
Blend until the emulsion is thick. Season with salt and pepper. In a
saut&eacute; pan, heat 1 tablespoon olive oil. When the oil is hot,
saut&eacute; the vegetables until wilted, about 2 minutes. Remove
from the heat and cool. In a mixing bowl, combine the crab meat,
vegetables, Creole mustard and parsley together. Season with salt and
pepper. Fold in the emulsion. Stir in enough bread crumbs to bind the
cakes. Portion the mixture into 4-ounce cakes. Season the flour and
remaining bread crumbs with Essence. In a small bowl, whisk the egg
and milk together. Season the egg wash with Essence. Dredge the cakes
in the seasoned flour. Dip the cakes in the egg wash, letting the
excess drip off. Dredge the cakes in the bread crumbs. Fill a
saut&eacute; pan with enough vegetable oil so that is comes up 1/2 of
the pan. Heat the oil. When the oil is hot, pan-fry the cakes for 2
to 3 minutes on each side, or until golden. Remove from the oil and
drain on a paper-lined plate. Season the cakes with Essence.

Nutritional information per serving:  xx calories, xx gm protein, xxx
mg cholesterol, xx gm carbohydrate, xxx mg sodium, x gm fiber, xx gm
fat (x gm sat, x gm mono, x gm poly), x mg iron, xx mg calcium, xx%
of calories from fat.

Brought to you by MMCONV and Sylvia Steiger, SylviaRN (at) compuserve
(dot) com (change characters as needed, this is to prevent bulk
E-mailers from capturing my address), moderator of GT Cookbook and
FringeNet Lowfat & Luscious echoes.  For breadmachine tips and mixes,
visit my homepage: http://ourworld.compuserve.com/homepages/SylviaRN

