Title: Crawfish Bread
Categories: Emeril
Yield: 4 servings
2    Tablespoons, plus 1 teaspoon
Vegetable oil
1    Envelope (1/4-ounce) dry
Yeast
2 tb Sugar
2 c  Warm water (about 110
Degrees F)
6 c  Unbleached all-purpose
Flour
3/4 c  Yellow cornmeal
2 ts Salt
1 tb Butter
1/2 c  Minced onions
1 tb Finely chopped red bell
Peppers
1 tb Finely chopped yellow bell
Peppers
1 lb Crawfish tails
1/4 lb Grated cheddar cheese
1/4 lb White grated cheddar cheese
Vegetable Oil for frying
Salt and pepper to taste
Creole Seasoning
In the bowl of an electric mixer, place two tablespoons of the
vegetable oil, yeast and sugar. The mixer should be fitted with a
dough hook. Then add the water. With the mixer on low speed, beat the
mixture for about 4 minutes to dissolve the yeast. *Note, if the
yeast mixture doesn't begin to foam after a few minutes, it means
it's not active and will have to be replaced.

In a large mixing bowl, combine the flour, 1/2 cup plus the 2
tablespoons of the cornmeal, and the salt. Then add this mixture to
the yeast mixture. On low speed begin to mix the dough. Increase the
speed as the dough begins to pull away from he sides of the bowl and
form a ball.

Remove dough from bowl and lightly coat the entire surface with the
remaining teaspoon of vegetable oil. Place dough in clean bowl
(preferably glass). Cover the bowl with plastic wrap. Then set in a
warm, dry place and let rise until doubled in size, about 2 hours.

Meanwhile, in a saute pan melt the butter. Add onions and peppers.
Season with salt, pepper and creole seasoning. saute for 2 minutes.
Season crawfish with salt, pepper, and creole seasoning and then add
crawfish to the saute pan. Saute for 2 minutes and then remove from
pan, set aside to cool to room temperature.

When the dough has doubled in size, remove from bowl and turn onto a
lightly floured surface. Using your hands gently roll dough and form a
narrow loaf about 24 inches long. Now cut dough into 18 equal pieces.
With a rolling pin, roll each on a lightly floured surface to form
thin round disks, about 1/8-inch thick.

In a bowl combine the cooled crawfish mixture with booth cheddar
cheeses. Mix well.

Spread about 2 tablespoons of the filling over half of the dough
round. Fold the other half of the dough over the filling, forming a
half-moon shape, and then pinch the edges tightly to seal completely.

Now sprinkle two parchment lined baking sheets with remaining
cornmeal. Place the completed breads on the baking sheet about 1-inch
apart. Cover the breads with plastic wrap and let rise in a warm, dry
place until doubled in size, about 30 minutes.

In a one gallon sauce pot, heat enough vegetable oil to freely deep
fry 2 or 3 half moons at a time (several inches deep). When the oil
reaches 350 degrees F carefully add the stuffed breads. Fry for about
3 minutes, turning them with a metal spoon for even frying. Remove
from the oil and drain on a paper-towel lined plate. Season while hot
with creole seasoning.

Yield: 18 breads

EMERIL LIVE SHOW #EMIB39

