Title: Crawfish Bisque with Crawfish Boulettes
Categories: Emeril
Yield: 4 servings
Vegetable oil for frying
5 lb Boiled crawfish
4 qt Water
1 c  Vegetable oil
1 c  Flour
3 1/2 c  Chopped onions, divided
1 3/4 c  Chopped green bell peppers,
Divided
1 3/4 c  Chopped celery, celery
Salt and pepper
1/4 c  Plus 3 tablespoons chopped
Green onions
1/4 c  Plus 2 tablespoons chopped
Parsley
1/2 ts Minced garlic
1 lb Peeled crawfish tails
4 sl Stale bread, torn into
Pieces
1    Egg, beaten
pn Cayenne
1 1/2 c  Dried fine bread crumbs
1 ts Rustic Rub
Preheat the oil. For the crawfish stock: Remove the tails and peel,
reserving the meat and peelings. Pinch off the claws and reserve. Put
the tail peelings and claws in a stockpot and cover with the water.
Bring to a boil. Simmer, uncovered for 45 minutes. Drain. You should
have about 3 quarts of stock. Let the stock cool. For the bisque:
Combine the oil and flour in a large cast-iron or enameled cast-iron
Dutch oven over medium heat. Stirring slowly and constantly for 20 to
25 minutes, make a medium brown roux, the color of peanut butter. Add
3 cups of onions, 1 1/2 cups bell peppers, and 1 1/2 cups celery.
Season with salt and pepper. Cook, stirring often, for 6 to 7
minutes, or until the vegetables are soft. Add the crawfish tails.
Stir and cook for 3 to 4 minutes. Add the crawfish stock and bring to
a boil. Simmer over medium heat, uncovered, for about 1 hour and 15
minutes. Add 1/4 cup of the green onions and the parsley. For the
boulettes: In a food processor with a metal blade, combine the
onions, peppers, celery, garlic, crawfish tails, bread pieces and egg
together. Pulse the mixture a few times to finely chop the mixture.
*Do not puree. Transfer the mixture to a mixing bowl and stir in the
green onions and parsley. Season with salt, pepper, and cayenne.
Shape the mixture into small balls, about 1 tablespoon each. Season
the bread crumbs with the Rustic Rub. Roll the balls into the
seasoned bread crumbs. When the oil has reached 360 degrees, deep-fry
them until golden brown, about 2 minutes Remove the boulettes from
the oil and drain on a paper-lined plate. Season with Rustic
Rub.Garnish each soup with a couple of the boulettes.

Yield: about 2 1/2 dozen

EMERIL LIVE SHOW #EMIA42

