Title: Deluxe Chocolate Cake Butter Cake
Categories: Baker
Yield: 4 servings
2 c  (200 grams) sifted cake
Flour
1 ts Baking soda
1/4 ts Salt
1/2 c  (50 grams) unsifted cocoa
Powder
1/2 c  Lukewarm water
1/2 c  Buttermilk, room temperature
1/2 c  Water
2 ts Vanilla
2 lg Eggs, room temperature
4 oz (1 stick) unsalted butter,
Room temperature
1 c  (200 grams) granulated sugar
1 c  (200 grams) light brown
Sugar, packed
Adjust rack in lower third of oven and preheat oven to 350/F. Grease
and flour two 8 inch round cake pans, and insert parchment paper or
waxed paper to line the bottoms.
Sift the flour, baking soda, and salt onto a sheet of waxed paper and
set aside. Place the cocoa in a 1quart mixing bowl. Add the 1/2 cup
lukewarm water, and whisk to combine; set aside to cool. Pour the
buttermilk, the 1/2 cup water, and the vanilla into a liquid cup
measure. Crack the eggs into a small bowl, and whisk together to
combine the yolks and whites. Place the butter in the bowl of a
heavyduty mixer, preferably fitted with a flat beater. Cream the
butter on medium speed until the butter is smooth and lighter in
color, about 30 to 45 seconds. Reduce the speed to low and add the
sugars in a steady stream. When all the sugar is added, stop the
machine and scrape the mixture clinging to the side of the bowl into
the center. The mixture will appear sandy. Increase the speed to
medium again, and cream until the mixture is light in color, is
fluffy in texture, and appears as one mass, about 6 to 7 minutes.
With the mixer still on medium speed, pour in the eggs slowly at
first. Continue to cream, scraping the sides of the bowl at least
once, until the mixture appears fluffy and velvety. Stop the machine
and spoon in the cooled cocoa mixture, resume at medium speed and mix
just until incorporated. Using a rubber spatula, stir in one fourth
of the flour mixture. Then one third of the buttermilk mixture,
stirring to blend together. Repeat this procedure, alternating dry
and liquid. With each addition, scrape the sides of the bowl, and
continue mixing until smooth, never adding liquid if any flour is
visible. Pour the batter into the pans and spread it level. Bake for
25 minutes, or until the baked surface springs back slightly when
touched lightly in the center and the sides contract from the pan.
Place the cake pans on a rack to cool for 5 to 10 minutes. With
mitts, tilt and rotate pans, gently tapping them on the counter to
see if the cake releases from the sides.

Yield: 2 8 inch layers

AGNATE FILLING

8 ounces semisweet or bittersweet chocolate, finely chopped
1 cup heavy cream

Put the chocolate in a medium bowl. In a small saucepan, heat the
heavy cream just to the boil. Remove from heat. Pour over chocolate
and whisk until chocolate melts and mixture is smooth and shiny.
ASSEMBLING THE DESSERT:
Split each layer of cake in half horizontally and place one layer,
cut side up, on a cardboard round. Spread with one third of the
ganache filling. Center a second layer on top of the first, and
spread it with one third of the ganache filling. Place another layer,
cut side up, on top, and spread with remaining filling and turn the
last layer upside down, and center it over the filling.
FROSTING AND CHOCOLATE GLAZE:

1 cup heavy cream, whipped
10 ounces semisweet chocolate, finely chopped
1 cup heavy cream

Frost the cake with the whipped cream. Place the cake on a wire rack,
then set it on a sheet pan that will fit the dimensions of your
freezer. Place in the freezer for 40 minutes only (this is just
enough time to chill the whipped cream frosting so its firm to the
touch, not soft). While the cake is in the freezer, prepare the dark
chocolate glaze. Put the chocolate in a medium bowl. In a small
saucepan, heat the heavy cream just to the boil. Remove from heat.
Pour over chocolate and whisk until chocolate melts and mixture is
smooth and shiny. Set aside to cool to body temperature. Set the cake
on its wire rack over a baking pan with sides (like a jelly roll pan)
on top of a turntable (or lazy susan). Pour almost all of the
chocolate glaze over the center of the cake. Using a long, flexible
metal icing spatula, use just a few strokes to spread the glaze over
the top of the cake so the glaze runs down over the sides. Rotate the
turntable as you spread. Use the spatula to scoop up excess glaze to
touch it to any bare spots on the sides of the cake to cover them.
Place the cake on a serving plate. Refrigerate until 30 to 60 minutes
before serving. Using a serrated knife, dipped into hot water after
each slice, cut dessert into wedges.

Yield: 12 servings

BAKERS' DOZEN FLO BRAKER SHOW #BD1A11

