Title: Double Chocolate Mousse Cake
Categories: Tvfn
Yield: 4 servings
1 1/2 c  Sifted cake flour
3/4 ts Baking soda
3/4 ts Salt
1 c  Sugar
6 tb Cocoa powder
1/2 c  Buttermilk
2    Extra-large eggs, separated
1/3 c  Vegetable oil
Rum Syrup
Chocolate Mousse
Chocolate Ganache
Chocolate Glaze
1 c  Semisweet chocolate
Shavings
Preheat oven to 350 degrees.

Grease and flour a 9-inch springform pan and line with parchment
paper or waxed paper. Butter and flour paper. Set aside.

Sift together cake flour, baking soda, salt, 3/4 cup sugar, and cocoa
in a mixing bowl. Combine buttermilk and egg yolks in a separate bowl.
Alternately combine dry and liquid ingredients, small amounts at a
time, to form a batter, beating with an electric mixer at high speed
until smooth. Add oil and blend until shiny.

In a mixing bowl, beat egg whites until they form soft peaks,
gradually adding 1/4 cup sugar. Fold beaten egg whites into batter.
Pour batter into prepared pan and bake in preheated oven for 20 to 30
minutes or until cake tester inserted in center comes out clean.
Remove from oven and let cake cool on wire rack. When cool, remove
spring form. Carefully remove bottom and peel off paper. Slice
horizontally into 3 layers.

Fit a piece of parchment paper on a baking sheet and place the ring
from a 9-inch springform pan on paper. Place 1 layer of cake into the
ring. Brush and soak cake with Rum Syrup. Spread on about 1
1/2-inches of Chocolate

Mousse, then cover with a second cake layer. Repeat procedure. Place
final cake layer on top and soak with Rum Syrup. Tightly cover and
place cake in freezer for at least 8 hours.

Run a knife around the edges between the cake and the ring and put a
hot towel around the outside of the ring to loosen the cake onto a
serving platter.  Totally cover the sides and top of the cake with
Chocolate Ganache.  Refrigerate for 20 minutes.  Remove from
refrigerator and completely cover ganache with Chocolate Glaze.
Refrigerate again for 15 minutes or until glaze is set.  When set,
cover top of cake with chocolate shavings.  Keep cold until ready to
serve.

ENTERTAINING AT HOME WITH DEAN FEARING SHOW #HE1A25

