Title: Down Island French Toast
Categories: Emeril
Yield: 4 servings
1    Vanilla bean, preferably
Tahitian, cut in half
Lengthwise
1 c  Cointreau or Curacao
1 ts Ground mace
1 ts Ground cinnamon
Zest of 1 orange
12 oz Fresh foie gras, cleaned and
Cut in half
5    Eggs, beaten
2 c  Half and half
12 sl Slightly sliced stale
Broiche, cut into triangles
1/3    Inch thick
1/4 c  Clarified butter
1    Recipe Citrus-Savory Caramel
Sauce (recipe follows)
Scrape the seeds from the vanilla bean. Add half of the scrapped
beans to a mixing bowl with the liquor. Add 1/2 teaspoon ground mace,
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon, and orange zest, and whisk together.
Put the foie gras into the marinade and cover with plastic wrap.
Slosh the marinade around a little and keep refrigerated. Add the
remaining vanilla bean seeds in a mixing bowl, and add the eggs and
half and half. Add the remaining mace and cinnamon and beat the
mixture together. Soak the brioche slices in the egg mixture and
allow them to absorb the flavor. Soaking time will depend on the
freshness of the brioche; the softer it is, the shorter the soaking
(sometimes 1 minute is sufficient). Keep covered in the refrigerator
until ready to complete the dish. Preheat the oven to 300 degrees.
Remove the foie gras from the marinade and cut the slices about
1/4-inch to 1/3-inch thick. Reserve on a chilled plate and discard
almost all of the marinade. Remove the brioche from the egg wash and
lay the slices on a plate. Heat the clarified butter in a nonstick
skillet, add the bread, and cook over medium heat until golden on
both sides. Transfer to a plate and keep warm in the oven. Reheat the
caramel sauce and place 2 tablespoons on each of 4 warm serving
plates. Heat a nonstick skillet or pan and when hot, sear the foie
gras slices over high heat for 15 seconds on each side until seared
and very dark. Place the foie gras on the brioche in layers: a slice
of brioche on the bottom, a slice of foie gras, then brioche, another
layer of foie gras, and topped with brioche. Serve with mixed
tropical fruits and orange segments, if desired.

Yield: 4 servings

Recipe from Norman's New World Cuisine by Norman Van Aken, published
by Random House

EMERIL LIVE SHOW #EMIA57 SALUTING SOUTHERN CHEFS

