Title: Duck Confit And Mashed Potato Ravioli With White Truffle
Categories: Live
Yield: 4 servings
2    Russet potatoes, about 1
Pound
2 tb Sour cream
14 oz Confit of duck leg, 2 whole
Legs*
3 tb Unsalted butter
1    Garlic clove, minced
56    Wonton wrappers, thawed if
Frozen
28    Flat leafed parsley
2 tb White truffle oil**
2 tb White truffle paste,
Optional **
Garnish:
Flat leafed parsley leaves
* D'Artagnan - 800-327-8246 **Aux Delices des Bois - 800-666-1232

Peel and quarter potatoes and in a saucepan combine with enough cold
water to cover by 2-inches. Simmer potatoes 15 to 20 minutes, or
until soft, and drain in a colander. Return potatoes to pan and
steam, covered, over moderate heat, shaking pan, 30 seconds to
evaporate any excess liquid. Force hot potatoes through a ricer or
medium disk of a food mill into a bowl and beat in sour cream and
salt and pepper to taste.

Remove skin from duck legs and cut into 1/4-inch strips. In a small
heavy skillet cook skin in 1 tablespoon butter over moderately low
heat, stirring occasionally, until crisp and transfer cracklings with
a slotted spoon to paper towels to drain.

Remove meat from duck legs and chop fine. Add garlic to fat remaining
in skillet and cook over moderately low heat, stirring occasionally,
until softened. Add meat to skillet and cook over moderate heat,
stirring occasionally, until heated through. Stir in salt and pepper
to taste. Stir meat mixture into potato mixture and cool. Filling may
be made 1 day ahead and chilled, covered.

Put 1 wrapper on a lightly floured surface and mound 1 tablespoon
filling in center. Top filling with 1 parsley leaf. Lightly brush
edges of wrapper with water and put a second wrapper over first,
pressing down around filling to force out air and sealing edges well.
Trim excess dough with a round cutter or sharp knife. Make more
ravioli with remaining wrappers, filling, and parsley in same manner,
transferring as formed to a dry kitchen towel and turning
occasionally to dry slightly.

In a kettle of gently boiling salted water cook ravioli in 2 batches 2
minutes, or until they rise to surface and are tender. Do not let
water boil vigorously once ravioli have been added. Transfer ravioli
as cooked with a slotted spoon to a dry kitchen towel to drain and
keep warm.

While ravioli are cooking, in the small heavy skillet cook remaining 2
tablespoons butter over moderate heat, swirling skillet occasionally,
until nut brown in color. Remove skillet from heat and stir in
truffle oil and paste.

Arrange 4 or 5 ravioli on each of 6 heated plates and spoon truffle
sauce on top. Garnish each serving with cracklings and parsley leaves.

Yield: 6 first course servings

COOKING LIVE SHOW #CL9035 All recipes courtesy of Gourmet Magazine

