Title: Duck Pastrami On French Bread With Onion Marmalade
Categories: Emeril
Yield: 4 servings
1 tb Black peppercorns
3 ts Dried thyme
3    Bay leaves, crumbled
1 ts Whole cloves
2 tb Garlic, minced
1 ts Whole juniper berries, plus
1/3 c  Crushed juniper berries
4 c  Water
1/2 c  Packed light brown sugar
1/2 c  Kosher salt
1    Whole boneless duck breast,
Split in half (2 1/4 to 2
1/2    Pounds)
1/4 c  Coarsely ground black
Pepper
1    Loaf of crusty French bread
1/4 c  Creole mustard
6 sl Provolone cheese
1 c  Onion Marmalade, recipe
Follows
In a small mixing bowl, combine the peppercorns, thyme, bay leaves,
cloves, garlic, and whole juniper berries. In a saucepan, over medium
heat, combine the water, brown sugar and salt. Bring to a boil and
stir to dissolve the sugar and salt. Remove from the heat and add dry
spice mixture and steep for 1 hour. Place the duck breast in a glass
or plastic container. Pour the seasoned brine to cover the breasts
completely. Cover and refrigerate for 48 hours, turning the breasts a
couple of times. Remove the duck breasts from the brine and rinse
thoroughly with cool water. Pat dry with a towel. Preheat the oven to
250 degrees. Combine the crushed juniper berries and ground black
pepper in a small bowl. Using the palm and heel of your hands, press
2/3 of the berry and pepper mixture into the underside of the
breasts. Press the remaining mixture onto the skin side. Place the
breasts, skin side down, on a rack in a roasting pan and roast for 1
hour. Remove and let cool for 30 minutes. Wrap the breasts tightly in
plastic wrap and place in an airtight container. Store in the
refrigerator for at least 1 week before using. To serve, remove the
meat and slice thin. Slice the french bread in 1/2 horizontally.
Smear the Creole mustard on cut sides of the bread. Lay the slices of
the duck on one side of the bread. Lay the slices of cheese over the
duck. Top the cheese with the onion marmalade.

Slice the sandwich and serve.

Yield: 6 servings

EMERIL LIVE SHOW #EM1A68 CHICK, GOBBLE, QUACK

(Adapted from Louisiana Real and Rustic by Emeril Lagasse)

