Title: Easy Brioche Loaf
Categories: Live
Yield: 4 servings
1/2 c  Milk
1    Envelope (2 teaspoons)
Active dry yeast
2 1/4 c  Unbleached, all-purpose
Flour, divided
6 tb Unsalted butter
3 tb Sugar
1/2 ts Salt
2 lg Eggs
Butter a loaf pan and cut a piece of parchment or waxed paper to fit
the inside bottom of the pan. Butter the paper. About 40 to 45
minutes after placing the dough in the pan to rise, preheat the oven
to 350 degrees, setting a rack in the middle level.

In a small saucepan over low heat, warm the milk until it is just
warm, about 110 degrees. Remove from heat and pour into a small bowl.
Whisk in the yeast, then stir 1 cup of the flour into the yeast and
milk mixture. Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and set aside at room
temperature while preparing the other ingredients. It may begin to
rise slightly before you add it to the other ingredients.

Cut the butter into 6 or 8 pieces and combine with sugar and salt in
the work bowl of a food processor, fitted with the metal blade. Pulse
at one-second intervals until the mixture is soft and smooth,
scraping the inside of the bowl several times to ensure even mixing.
Add the eggs, one at a time, and process until smooth. If the mixture
appears curdled, continue to process for about 1 minute longer, until
it looks smoother. (It may remain somewhat curdled in appearance.)
Add the remaining 1 1/4 cups flour, then the milk-yeast-flour
mixture, scraping it from the bowl with a rubber spatula. Pulse at
one-second intervals until the ingredients form a soft, smooth dough.
Then process continuously for fifteen seconds.

Remove work bowl from base and remove blade. Scrape dough onto a
generously floured work surface and fold it over on itself several
times to make it more elastic. Press the dough into a rough
rectangle, about 9 x 5-inches. Fold each side about 1-inch in toward
the center and press firmly to seal. Then starting at the top of the
rectangle, fold the dough to the middle. Fold the bottom of the dough
up past the seam and pinch to seal. Place the dough in the prepared
pan, seam side down. Press the top of the dough firmly with the palm
of your hand to flatten it and fill the pan evenly. Cover with a
piece of buttered plastic wrap or a towel and allow to rise until it
is about one inch above the rim of the pan. Using the corner of a
razor blade or the tip of a sharp knife held at a 30 degree angle to
the top of the loaf, cut a slash down the middle of the top beginning
and ending about one inch from the ends of the loaf. Bake the loaf
for about 40 minutes, until it is well risen and a deep golden color.
Place the pan on a rack to cool 5 minutes. Then invert the loaf to
the rack and turn it on its side to cool.

COOKING LIVE SHOW #CL9045

All recipes courtesy of Nick Malgieri

