Title: Egg Rolls
Categories: Toohot
Yield: 4 servings
1/2 lb Cooked small shrimp
1 c  Bean sprouts
1 c  Shredded Napa cabbage
1 c  Slivered carrots
3    Stalks celery, thinly
Sliced
4    Dried Chinese mushrooms,
Soaked in hot water 20
Minutes, drained and
Thinly sliced
3    Scallions, white and green
Parts, thinly sliced
Sauce:
1 tb Soy sauce
1 tb Dry sherry
1 tb Oyster sauce
1 tb Sesame oil
1 ts Fivespice powder
2 tb Peanut oil
2 ts Finely chopped garlic
2 ts Freshly grated ginger
1 ts Coarse salt
12    Egg roll wrappers
1    Egg, beaten
3 c  Peanut oil for deepfrying
Combine all the filling ingredients in a large bowl, and combine all
the sauce ingredients in a small bowl. Heat wok over high heat, add
peanut oil and swirl to coat wok. Add shrimp and vegetable mixture to
wok and stir fry for 1 minute. Add garlic, ginger, and salt, and stir
fry for another minute. Pour the reserved sauce over the vegetables,
toss well to mix, and stir fry about 30 seconds. Remove from the
heat, transfer to a bowl, and set aside to cool. (At this point, the
filling can be covered and refrigerated for up to 1 day).

Drain filling of any excess liquid. Place the egg roll skins, one at
a time so they don't dry out, on a flat surface. Arrange wrapper like
a diamond with a corner facing you. Place about 1/4 cup of filling in
the lower part of the diamond, leaving about 1 inch of wrapper on
either side. Fold the bottom corner over the filling, roll up half
way, then fold the sides over. Coat the top corner of the wrapper
with egg, then seal and press to fully enclose. Arrange egg rolls on
a baking sheet dusted with cornstarch, covered with a dry towel,
until all the egg rolls are stuffed. (Do not refrigerate or the
wrappers will crack.)Heat the peanut oil to deep-fry temperature (325
degrees F) in a wok or deep skillet. Fry the rolls until golden brown
all over, about 2 minutes per side. Drain on paper towels and serve
warm with Plum Sauce and Hot Mustard.

Yield: 12 egg rolls

TAMALES WORLD TOUR SHOW #WT1B13 CHINA DIM SUM

Filling:

