Title: Empanadas
Categories: Toohot
Yield: 4 servings
2 c  Flour
1/2 c  Lard
2 1/2 tb Unsalted butter
1/2 ts Sea salt
About 1/2 cup iced water
FILLING:
1 lb Lean ground beef
1 md Onion, chopped
2    Cloves garlic, chopped
1/3 c  Toasted almonds coarsely
Chopped
1/3 c  Dark raisins
8    Italian Roma tomatoes
2    To 4 serrano chilies
Juice of 2 limes
1 1/2 ts Sea salt
1 ts Freshly ground black pepper
1 ts Ground cumin
1/8 ts Ground cloves
1/8 ts Cinnamon
Sea salt, to taste
Freshly ground black pepper,
To taste
Dough: In a large bowl, combine the flour with the lard, butter, and
salt. Mix lightly with your fingertips until the dough forms
grapesized pieces. You should still be able to see streaks of fat.
Stir in the water. Lightly knead, handling the dough as little as
possible, until the dough forms a ball. Add a little more water if
needed. Refrigerate for at least 1 hour, then remove and let it
return to room temperature, about 1 hour, before rolling. The dough
can be frozen for as long as a week. Pinch off about half the dough.
Roll out, on a floured surface, to a thickness of 1/8inch. Cut out
3inch circles. Then, gather the scraps, add to the rest of the dough,
and roll out another batch of circles. Repeat, with the rest of the
scraps. This should be enough dough for about 24 empanadas. Filling:
In a large heavy skillet, over a mediumhigh heat, saute the ground
beef until the meat is browned, about 6 to 8 minutes. Drain off the
excess fat. Add the onion and saute 2 minutes. Then add the garlic,
almonds, and raisins, and saute 1 minute. Place the tomatoes,
chilies, lime juice, salt, and pepper in a blender and puree until
smooth. Add the puree, cumin, cloves, cinnamon and salt and pepper to
the skillet and cook for about 5 minutes to get rid of any excess
liquid. Cool. Place a spoonful of filling in the center of each
circle of pastry. Fold over the pastry and seal the edges. Let the
empanadas rest in the refrigerator 1/2 hour or freeze immediately.
(Bake the frozen empanadas without defrosting.) Empanadas may be
glazed (1 egg and 2 tablespoons milk, well beaten) and baked until
golden in a 400 degree oven, for about 15 minutes. Or they may be
deepfried in oil at 375 degrees until golden brown, 1 to 2 minutes a
side. (If you deepfry them, make sure the edges are well sealed so
the filling won't leak.)

Yield: about 24 empanadas

TOO HOT TAMALES SHOW #TH6274

DOUGH:

