Title: Fallen Chocolate Pecan Cake
Categories: Baker
Yield: 4 servings
1/4 c  Pecans (1-ounce)
3 tb All purpose flour
3 oz Bittersweet or semisweet
Chocolate, chopped fine
1/2 c  Unsweetened Dutch Process
Cocoa powder
1 c  Sugar
1/2 c  Boiling water
2    Egg yolks
1 tb Bourbon
4    Egg whites, at room
Temperature
Scant 1/4 teaspoon cream of
Tartar
23 ts Powdered sugar
8    Inch round spring form pan,
2 1/16    Inches deep
Position oven rack in the bottom third of the oven and preheat to 375.
Spray the bottom and sides of the pan very lightly with vegetable oil
spray.  In a clean dry food processor or blender, pulverize pecans and
flour until the mixture resembles the texture of fine meal. Set
aside. In a large mixing bowl, combine chopped chocolate, cocoa, and
3/4 cup sugar. Add boiling water and whisk until chocolate is
completely melted. Whisk in egg yolks and Bourbon. Set aside. Combine
egg whites with cream of tartar in a medium mixing bowl.  Beat on
medium speed until soft peaks form. Gradually sprinkle in remaining
sugar and beat on high speed until stiff but not dry. Whisk the flour
and almonds into the chocolate mixture. Fold about one quarter of the
egg whites into the chocolate mixture to lighten it. Fold in the
remaining egg whites. Scrape batter into prepared pan; level the top
if necessary.  Bake 3035 minutes or until toothpick or wooden skewer
plunged into the center comes out with a few moist crumbs clinging to
it. Cool in the pan, on a wire rack.  Cake will sink like a souffle
and the top crust may be broken and uneven.  Cooled cake may be
covered and stored at room temperature or in the refrigerator one day
ahead or frozen up to two months.  To unmold and serve:  Detach the
cake from the pan by sliding a small knife around the sides of the
cake, pressing close to the sides of the pan.  Release the spring and
remove the pan sidesif the cake edges crack or break, do not eat or
discard the pieces! Leave the cake on the bottom of the springform
and transfer it to a serving dish. Gently replace any broken crust
pieces. Sieve powdered sugar very lightly over the top to highlight
the uneven surface and give the cake a rustic and appetizing appeal!
Yield: 1012 servings

NUTRITIONAL DATA PER SERVING 179 calories; 6.4 grams fat; 29 percent
calories from fat; 4.2 grams protein; 30.2 grams carbohydrates; 42.4
Mg cholesterol.

BAKERS' DOZEN ALICE MEDRICH SHOW #BD1A47

