Title: Flourless Chocolate Cake 1
Categories: Live
Yield: 4 servings
8 oz Bittersweet or semisweet
Chocolate
1/2 c  Rum, brandy or strong
Coffee
1/2 c  (1 stick) unsalted butter
6    Egg yolks
1/3 c  Granulated sugar
6    Egg whites
For the icing:
10 oz Semisweet or bittersweet
Chocolate, chopped
1 c  Heavy cream
12    To 16 ounces Chocolate
Snaps* or other coating
Chocolate
*Available at baking and cake decorating departments of cookware
stores, such as New York Cake and Baking Supply and Broadway
Panhandler. Most stores have mail order available.

Make the cake: Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. (300 degrees for
convection oven).

Grease and flour 1 8-inch or 9-inch cake pan. In the top of a double
boiler or in a bowl set over simmering water combine the chocolate,
rum, brandy or coffee and butter. In a bowl with an electric mixer
beat egg yolks and sugar until thick and lemon-colored. Fold
chocolate mixture into yolk mixture.

In clean grease-free glass or metal bowl, beat whites until soft peaks
form. Gently fold the chocolate mixture into the whites.

Pour batter into cake pan, transfer pan to middle of preheated oven
and bake for 30 to 45 minutes, depending on pan size and type of
oven. Cake will be firm at edges, but will seem under-baked in
center. Remove from oven and let cool completely in pan. Put cake in
pan in the refrigerator, overnight if possible. Cake must be cold to
successfully remove it from the pan.

To remove cake from pan: Cut 2 cardboard circles the same size as the
pan used. Put one circle on top of cake still in pan. Heat the bottom
of the cake pan on top of the stove over high heat for approximately
20 seconds. Remove from heat and invert cake onto cardboard, gently
tapping pan on table if necessary. Cake will fall out of pan. Put the
other cardboard circle on bottom of cake and invert cake. Remove
cardboard from cake top. Keep cake in refrigerator until ready to use.

For the icing: In the top of a double boiler or a heatproof bowl set
over simmering water melt the chocolate, stirring, until smooth. In a
small saucepan bring cream just to a boil. Remove pan from heat, add
melted chocolate and stir until smooth. Transfer melted chocolate to
a bowl and let cool completely at room temperature. This is called
Ganache and can be made and stored in the refrigerator for up to one
month.

To assemble the cake: Ice the top and sides of the cold cake with the
ganache. If ganache becomes too cold to spread, soften it in a
microwave oven or on top of stove for a few seconds and stir to
blend. Use as much or as little of the icing as your taste desires.
The extra can be stored as stated in the recipe. Put the iced cake on
a serving platter. Refrigerate if desired.

To decorate the cake: Cut 3 to 4 strips from a new (one-gallon size)
freezer bag, each 10 1/2 inches long and approximately 5 inches wide.
There should be enough strips to cover an 8 or 9 inch cake.
Melt chocolate as described in above instructions. Spread the melted
chocolate over the entire surface of one strip. While the chocolate is
still wet, pick up the strip and place it with the chocolate side to
the cake, aligning the bottom of the strip to the bottom of the cake.
Allow the top to fold over the top of the cake - just like a piece of
fabric. Refrigerate until the chocolate strip is cold (this should be
about a minute or less). Remove cake from the refrigerator and peel
away the plastic strip from the chocolate. The chocolate will adhere
to the cake.

Repeat the process with the next strip, and then the third strip. The
cake will be "wrapped" in a free-form blanket of chocolate. Dust with
confectioners' sugar before serving.

COOKING LIVE SHOW #CL9075

(all recipes courtesy of Madeline Lanciani)

For the cake:

