Title: Fresh Coriander, Ginger, and Chile Breads
Categories: Breads
Yield: 4 servings
2 c  Semolina flour
1 c  Plain yogurt
1    Fresh red chile (seeds and
Veins discarded), finely
Chopped (or 1
Jalapeno)
1 tb Finely chopped ginger
1 tb Curry leaves (if using dried
Rehydrate by soaking before
Using)
2 tb Coriander leaves, roughly
Chopped
1/2 ts Salt
2 c  Warm water
Oil for griddle surface
You will need a medium-sized mixing bowl, a large castiron or other
heavy griddle, a paper towel, a flat wooden spoon or rubber spatula,
and a metal spatula.

In a medium-sized bowl, mix together the semolina, yogurt, chile,
gingerroot, curry leaves, coriander leaves, and salt.  Add the water a
little at a time, stirring while you pour.  When all the water has
been added and the batter is smooth, cover the bowl and let the
batter rest for approximately one hour.

To cook the breads, heat a large castiron griddle over medium high
heat. Lightly oil the surface of the griddle using a paper towel, and
reserve the towel for use between each dosa.  When the griddle is
hot, pour on one-half cup of the batter.  As you pour, move in a
circle out from the middle, trying to distribute the batter in as
large a circle as possible. Immediately after, use the flat back side
of a wooden spoon or rubber spatula to move the batter to cover the
gaps, trying again to increase the diameter of the dosa.  Try to make
a circle 9 to 10 inches in diameter.

Over a medium high heat, the dosa will cook on its first side for one
minute and a half.  After it has been cooking for one minute, begin to
loosen it from the griddle with a sharp-edged spatula. Coax the dosa,
don't force it, as it will come off easily from the griddle when it
is ready. When ready, flip to the other side.

The second side will cook in one and a half to two minutes, depending
on the thickness of the

dosa and the heat of the griddle.  You can check the dosa by simply
lifting a corner with your spatula.  It should have nicely browned
spots, but not nearly as uniformly brown as the first side.  When
ready, remove to a plate.  Before starting the second dosa, rub the
surface of the griddle with the oily paper towel, or if it's
particularly dry, add a little more oil.  Continue cooking until all
the dosas have been made (they can be stacked one on top of the other
when they finish cooking), or serve immediately as they are made,
flapjack-style.

These delicious crepe-like breads are called rava dosa in India. They
are made from semolina flour and spiked with chiles, ginger, curry and
coriander leaves.

Yield: eight dosas, each 9 to 10 inches in diameter.

BAKERS' DOZEN ALFORD AND DUGUID SHOW #BD1A27

