Title: Galette Des Rois Aux Amandes (The Three Kings Almond Tart
Categories: Tvfn
Yield: 4 servings
9 oz Flour
1/2 ts Salt
7 oz Unsalted butter
1/4 pt Chilled water
Icing sugar
For the filling:
4 oz Unsalted butter
4 oz Caster sugar
3    Egg yolks
4 dr Almond essence
3 tb Kirsch
4 oz Freshly ground almonds
1    Dried bean, gold ring or
Baby figurine
For the pastry, sift the flour and salt into a large bowl. Cut in 3
ounces of butter with a sharp knife until the mixture resembles
crumbs. Mix in enough water to make a non-sticky dough. Knead gently,
cover and leave for
20    minutes.

Roll out the pastry on a floured board to about 1/4-inch thickness.
Dot it with one-third of the remaining butter cut into dice. Fold the
pastry into three, like a letter, then again into three in the
opposite direction. Cover in a cloth and refrigerate for 20 minutes.
Repeat this process twice more and leave for another 20 minutes
chilling before using. If you can't face all that fun, buy 1 pound of
puff pastry instead.

Divide the pastry in half. Roll each half into a round of about 9 inch
diameter and let rest while you make the filling.

Cream the butter and sugar together until light and fluffy. Whisk in
2 of the yolks, the almond essence, kirsch and the ground almonds.
Work together until you have a smooth paste.

Rinse a baking tray under cold water. Place one of the pastry rounds
on the tray and spoon the paste onto it, leaving a 2-inch margin all
around. Hide the bean or the other objects in the paste. Beat the
remaining egg with a little water and paint the pastry margin. Place
the second round of pastry on top and gently press edges together.
Chill 45 minutes.

Preheat the oven to 375 degrees. Using a sharp knife make a lattice or
star-shaped pattern on the pastry surface, but do not cut through the
filling. Pinch the edges prettily together. Paint the top with the egg
wash. Bake the galette for 30 to 40 minutes until the pastry is crisp
and brown. Transfer to a rack and cool. Dust with icing sugar.

When cool, serve with a gold crown on top (made with your own fair
hands) and a glass of kirsch or some pudding wine. Eat and discover
who will be king of the feast, then crown them!

TWO FAT LADIES SHOW #FL1A05

For the pastry:

