Title: Goat's Cheese Stuffed Softshells With A Pecan Pesto Butte
Categories: Emeril
Yield: 4 servings
1 1/2 c  Basil leaves, washed and
Patted dry
6    Crushed garlic cloves
1/3 c  Toasted pecan pieces
1/2 c  Grated Parmesan Reggiano
Cheese
Salt
Freshly ground black pepper
1/2 c  Olive oil
2    Sticks cold butter, cubed
8    Louisiana softshells,
Cleaned
1 c  Goat's cheese
1 c  Flour
Essence
2 c  Mashed potatoes, hot
2    Eggs, beaten with 1
TB milk
2 c  Fine dried bread crumbs
Preheat the oil to 360 degrees F. In a food processor, fitted with a
metal blade, combine 1 cup of the basil, garlic, pecans, and cheese.
Puree until smooth. Season with salt and pepper. With the machine
running, add the oil in a steady stream. Process until a paste is
formed. Season with salt and pepper. Place the pesto in a saucepan,
over low heat, heat the mixture. Whisk in the butter, a cube at a
time, until all of the butter is incorporated. Reseason the sauce if
necessary. Set aside and keep warm. Season all sides of the
soft-shells with salt and pepper. Season the flour with Essence.
Season the egg wash with Essence. Season the bread crumbs with
Essence. Stuff each cavity with 2 tablespoons of the Goat's cheese.
Press the cheese firmly into the cavity to secure the cheese. Dredge
the soft-shells in the seasoned flour. Dip each soft-shell in the egg
wash, letting the excess drip off. Dredge the soft-shells in the
bread crumbs, coating the legs completely. Fry the remaining basil
leaves in the oil until crispy, about 1 minute. Remove and drain on
paper towels. Season with salt and pepper. Holding the cavity,
carefully drag the legs in the hot oil for about 30 seconds.
Carefully drop the shells in the oil and fry until golden brown,
about 2 to 3 minutes. Remove from the oil and drain on paper towels.
Season with Essence. Fry the soft-shells in batches. To serve, spoon
the sauce in the center of each plate. Mound the potatoes in the
center of the sauce. Place two soft-shells on top of each mound of
potatoes. Garnish with the fried basil.

Yield: 4 servings

EMERIL LIVE SHOW #EMIB54 COOKING WITH FRESH HERBS

