Title: Granita
Categories:
Yield: 6 servings
MMMMM-----------------ESSENCE OF EMERIL #EE2173----------------------
4 c  Simple syrup (see below)
4 c  Cubed melon (about 2-3 small
Ripe melons)
1/4 c  Sweet white wine
2 tb Lemon juice
1    Egg in shell
Mint sprig for garnish
6    8 berries for garnish
Make simple syrup: Place equal parts water and sugar, by weight,
together in a sauce pot, bring to a boil and simmer until clear.
Cool. It can be used to make sorbets, ices, moisten cakes, make
drinks...etc.

In a blender combine the melon, wine, lemon juice, and 2 cups of the
simple syrup. Blend until smooth. Strain through a large holed sieve
into a deep container. Test the mixture for freezing potential by
placing the egg (shell and all) into the mixture. You want the egg to
show the size of a nickel. Too much sugar will make the egg show more
and not enough sugar will allow it to sink. Depending on the results
of your test and the ripeness of your melon, adjust accordingly: Add
more simple syrup if it doesn't show enough; water or wine if it
shows too much. Pour the perfected mixture into a shallow, metal pan
(a half hotel pan works great). Place it into the freezer. You can
achieve the crystallized "shards" several ways; you can check this
mixture several times while it freezes, stirring it with a fork each
time to begin the crystallizing, or as I like to do, allow it to
freeze completely and pulling towards myself with a large fork,
shredding it into crystals. Either way, it will need to freeze 8-12
hours. Serve it up in a pretty, frozen martini glass, garnished with
berries and mint.

Nutritional information per serving:  xx calories, xx gm protein, xxx
mg cholesterol, xx gm carbohydrate, xxx mg sodium, x gm fiber, xx gm
fat (x gm sat, x gm mono, x gm poly), x mg iron, xx mg calcium, xx%
of calories from fat.

Brought to you by MMCONV and Sylvia Steiger, SylviaRN (at) compuserve
(dot) com (change characters as needed, this is to prevent bulk
E-mailers from capturing my address), moderator of GT Cookbook and
FringeNet Lowfat & Luscious echoes, creator of Frazzled Cook
breadmachine mixes, homepage
http://ourworld.compuserve.com/homepages/SylviaRN

