Title: Grilled Marinated Swordfish W\ Fire Roasted Peppers
Categories: Tvfn
Yield: 4 servings
Swordfish marinade-
1/4 c  Olive oil
Juice of 3 limes
(approximately 1/4 cup)
1    Fresh jalapeno pepper,
Seeded and chopped
2    Cloves garlic, peeled
1/4 c  Fresh cilantro leaves,
Lightly packed
1 ts Cracked black pepper
4 tb Grated fresh ginger
1/4 c  Unsweetened coconut milk
Fresh herb vinaigrette:
1/4 c  Balsamic vinegar
1 tb Dijon mustard
1 ts Fresh thyme leaves
1 ts Fresh oregano leaves
8 lg Fresh basil leaves
1/2 c  Extravirgin olive oil
Salt and freshly ground
Pepper to taste
For the swordfish:
4    6 to 8 ounce swordfish
Steaks, at least 3/4 inch
Thick
2 lg Vidalia onions, peeled and
Sliced 1/4 inch thick
Slices
2    Sweet red peppers, seeded
And sliced into rings
2    Sweet yellow peppers, seeded
And sliced into rings
12 lg Shiitake mushroom caps
2 tb Olive oil
Salt and pepper
For the marinade: Combine all ingredients in the bowl of a food
processor and pulse to combine. Use to marinate swordfish, salmon,
tuna, or red snapper overnight. For the vinaigrette: Combine the
vinegar and mustard in the bowl of a food processor. Pulse briefly,
then add the herbs. Pulse again until coarsely chopped. With the
processor running, add the olive oil very slowly so that the mixture
will emulsify into a smooth blend. Season with salt and freshly
ground pepper to taste. This dressing will keep for up to 10 days in
the refrigerator. For the swordfish: The night before, rub the
swordfish steaks with the marinade. Cover and marinate, refrigerated,
overnight. The next day, prepare an outdoor grill for cooking. Right
before grilling, toss the onions, peppers and mushrooms with the
olive oil, salt and pepper. When the grill is hot, grill the
swordfish until it is well colored on both sides and the interior is
medium (about 3 to 4 minutes per side, total).When you have added the
fish to the grill, spread the vegetables along the perimeter of the
grill and carefully cook the vegetables without burning. Remove the
fish from the grill, plate, drizzle with vinaigrette over the fish,
top with vegetables and serve.

Yield: 4 servings

MICHAEL'S PLACE SHOW #ML1A08

