Title: Gubana
Categories:
Yield: 4 servings
MMMMM------------------------MOLTO MARIO-----------------------------
1 c  Walnuts, chopped roughly
1/2 c  Hazelnuts, chopped roughly
1    Lemons; zest of
1    Oranges; zest of
1/4 c  Candied citron
1/4 c  Semi-sweet chocolate pieces,
Roughly chopped
1/4 c  Currants, soaked 1 hour in
1/2 c  Verduzzo wine
2    Eggs separated, yolks beaten
Until stiff
1/4 c  Sugar plus 3 tablespoons
MMMMM----------------STRUDEL PASTRY BASIC RECIPE---------------------
1    Stick butter plus 3 sticks
(cold)
1 ts Salt
2 1/2 c  Flour plus 1 cup
1/2 c  Ice water
Strudel pastry: In a food processor, place 1 stick of butter, 1
teaspoon salt, and 2 1/2 cups flour and blend until texture of
breadcrumbs. Slowly add ice water until dough comes together. Remove
and form into a ball, then flatten it into a 8 by 10-inch rectangle
and place in refrigerator. This is called the pasta mixture.

In a food processor, place 3 remaining sticks of butter and 1 cup
flour until blended and scrape out on to a board. Working quickly,
form this mixture in a 4-inch square and place in refrigerator. This
is called the burro mixture.

After 1/2 hour, when the two mixtures are similar in texture, place
pasta mixture on a well-floured clean marble surface. Place burro
mixture in center and fold the pasta mixture over it, like wrapping a
gift. Flatten with a rolling pin and roll out to a 8 by 16-inch
rectangle, flouring regularly. If butter comes to surface, flour the
spot heavily and continue working. Fold bottom third up and top third
down to form a small package and turn one quarter clockwise. Pat
dough with rolling pin to adhere and roll out to large 8-inch by
16-inch rectangle again. Repeat folding process and refrigerate 30
minutes, covered in a moist cloth. Remove and repeat the
rolling-and-folding process 3 times. Allow 30 minutes refrigeration
between each maneuver. The dough is now ready and will keep in the
refrigerator 10 days, wrapped tightly in plastic wrap.

Preheat oven to 375 degrees and grease a cookie sheet.

In a large mixing bowl, combine walnuts, hazelnuts, lemon zest, orange
zest, candied citron, chocolate pieces, currants, soaking liquid and
stir to combine. Add egg whites and 1/4 cup sugar and fold together.
Roll pastry out to a 10 by 16-inch rectangle and position the longest
side parallel to the work surface edge. Spoon the filling over the
pastry evenly, leaving 2 inches uncovered at the north end. Roll the
pastry up like a jelly roll from south to north so it appears to be a
thick pipe. Make a circle of the pipe by attachi the two open ends
like a wreath. Brush with beaten eggs yolks and sprinkle with
remaining sugar. Place on cookie sheet and bake 50 minutes. Allow to
cool before cutting. Serve with Verduzzo wine.

Nutritional information per serving:  xx calories, xx gm protein, xxx
mg cholesterol, xx gm carbohydrate, xxx mg sodium, x gm fiber, xx gm
fat (x gm sat, x gm mono, x gm poly), x mg iron, xx mg calcium, xx%
of calories from fat.

Brought to you by MMCONV and Sylvia Steiger, SylviaRN (at) compuserve
(dot) com (change characters as needed, this is to prevent bulk
E-mailers from capturing my address), moderator of GT Cookbook and
FringeNet Lowfat & Luscious echoes, creator of Frazzled Cook
breadmachine mixes, homepage
http://ourworld.compuserve.com/homepages/SylviaRN

