Title: Herb Crusted Prawns With A Warm Mushroom Potato Salad
Categories: Tvfn
Yield: 4 servings
1/2 c  Olive oil
4 c  Assorted mushrooms - sliced
Oyster, Cepes, Portobello,
Shiitake,
Chanterelle
1/4 c  Shallots - chopped
1 c  Bacon - cubed
1    Dozen fingerling potatoes -
Washed, cut in 1/4=s
Salt
Pepper
2 lg Tomatoes - peeled, seeded
And diced
For the prawns:
12    Prawns - shelled and
De-veined
1    Egg white - lightly frothed
1/4 c  Chopped mixed herbs -
Rosemary, parsley, thyme,
Oregano
1/4 c  Sherry vinegar
1 c  Shrimp stock
2 tb Butter
Salt and pepper - to taste
1/2    Lemon - juiced
In a saute pan over medium-high heat cook half the mushrooms in 2
tablespoons of oil until golden brown, approximately 3 minutes.
Repeat with the remaining mushrooms and 2 more tablespoons of oil. At
the last moment prior to removing from heat, toss in the shallots and
season with salt and pepper. Set aside covered with aluminum foil..

Over medium heat, sautJ the bacon until crispy. Remove bacon bits and
let drain on paper towel, reserving the fat.

In the same pan heat the remaining oil until smoking and add the
fingerling potatoes. Cook until fork tender, shaking the pan often in
order for the potatoes not to stick. Season with salt and pepper,
remove from pan and keep warm.

For the Prawns:

Lightly coat prawns in egg wash and dredge in herb mixture. In a
sautJ pan heat oil over medium heat and cook shrimp for 2 minutes
until turns pink. Remove shellfish from pan and de-glaze with sherry
vinegar. Let reduce until approximately 1 tablespoon remains. Add
shrimp stock and bring to a boil. Reduce heat and swirl in butter.
Season with salt, pepper and lemon juice.

To assemble:

In a bowl mix together the warm mushroom, potatoes and bacon. In the
middle of a shallow bowl or plate place a generous spoonful of the
warm potato mushroom salad. Place two prawns on top and drizzle over
warm shrimp sauce. Sprinkle over tomato concasse.

Yield: 6 appetizer size portions

For the Mushrooms and Potatoes:

