Title: King Cake
Categories: Tvfn
Yield: 4 servings
1/2 c  Warm water (105 to 115
Degrees)
2 pk Dry yeast
2 ts Sugar
4    To 5 cups flour
1/2 c  Sugar
2 ts Salt
1 ts Ground nutmeg
1 ts Grated lemon rind
1/2 c  Warm milk (105 to 115
Degrees)
1/2 c  Melted unsalted butter,
Cooled
5    Egg yolks
1/2 c  Finely chopped candied
Citron
1    Pecan half, uncooked dried
Bean or King Cake Baby
Glaze:
2 c  Sifted powdered sugar
2 tb Lemon juice
2 tb Water
Purple, green and gold sugar
Crystals
Preheat the oven 350 degrees. Combine the warm water, yeast and 2
teaspoons sugar in a small bowl. Mix well and set aside to a warm
place for about 10 minutes. Combine the 4 cups of flour, 1/2 cup
sugar, salt, nutmeg, lemon rind and add warm milk, melted butter, egg
yolks and yeast mixture. Beat until smooth. Turn dough out on a
lightly floured surface. Kneed in enough remaining flour until the
dough is no longer sticky. Continue kneading until the dough is
smooth and elastic (about 10 minutes). Place the dough in a
well-greased bowl. Turn once so greased surface is on top.

Cover the dough and let rise in a warm place until doubled in bulk
(about 1 1/2 hours). Punch the dough down and place on a lightly
floured surface. Sprinkle with the citron and knead until the citron
is evenly distributed. Shape the dough into a cylinder, about 30
inches long. Place the cylinder on a buttered baking sheet. Shape
into a ring, pinching ends together to seal. Place a well-greased
2-pound coffee can or shortening can in the center of the ring to
maintain shape during baking. Press the boy, pecan half or dried bean
into the ring from the bottom so that it is completely hidden by the
dough. Covers the ring with a towel, and let rise in a warm place
until doubled in bulk, about 45 minutes.

Bake for 30 minutes, or until golden brown. Remove the coffee can
immediately. Allow the cake to cool. For the glaze: Combine the
ingredients and beat until smooth. To assemble, drizzle cake with the
glaze. Sprinkle with sugar crystals, alternating colors. Cut into the
cake and hope you do not get the baby.

Yield: 10-12 servings

ESSENCE OF EMERIL SHOW #EE2270

