Title: Lemon Marble Cheesecake
Categories: Tvfn
Yield: 4 servings
Grated zest of 1/2 lemon
1/3 c  Strained lemon juice
5 tb Sugar
1 lg Egg
1/2 ts Vanilla extract
For the cheese cake:
1 c  Sugar
2 c  (2 percent) lowfat small
Curd cottage cheese, drained
At least 30
Minutes in a strainer set
Over a bowl in the
Refrigerator
8 oz Neufchatel Cream Cheese
(Kraft in the box is good
Don't buy the
Kind in the tub)
3 lg Eggs
1 tb Vanilla extract
1 1/2 ts Strained lemon juice
1/4 ts Salt
34 tb Graham cracker or Zwieback
Crumbs or crushed Chocolate
Cookies or gingersnaps
8-inch round pan with a solid bottom (no spring form), at least 2
inches deep.

Oven proof baking dish or skillet, at least 11 inches in diameter and
2 inches deep.

8-inch cardboard cake circle or pan bottom, optional

Make the lemon curd: Combine the lemon zest, juice, and sugar in a
small saucepan and bring to a simmer. Meanwhile beat the egg until
light in a small bowl. Beat some of the hot lemon mixture into the
egg. Scrape the egg mixture back into the saucepan. Cook, stirring
constantly and reaching all over the bottom and sides of the pan,
until the mixture barely starts to simmer around the edges. Continue
to cook and stir for about 15 seconds. Pour through a strainer set
over a clean bowl. Stir in the vanilla. Cool to room temperature.

Make the cheesecake batter: Position rack in lower third of oven and
preheat to 350 degrees. Place a round of parchment paper in the
bottom of the cake pan. and spray sides of pan with vegetable oil
spray. Put water

kettle on to boil for baking procedure.

Process the cottage cheese in a food processor for 2 1/2 3 minutes or
until silky smooth, scraping the sides and bottom of the bowl once or
twice as necessary. Set aside.

In a small microwave safe bowl, soften the Neufchatel cheese in
microwave on high for about 30 seconds. Or, warm gently in the top of
a double boiler. Stir until smooth. Scrape into the processor. Add
the eggs, remaining sugar, vanilla, lemon juice, and salt. Pulse
until incorporated and perfectly smooth. Do not over process.

Scrape the batter into the prepared pan. Distribute slightly rounded
tablespoons of lemon curd evenly over the cheesecake batter. Using a
table knife or teaspoon, use circular strokes to marble the batters
until nicely but not to completely mingled.

Slide oven rack part way out. Place cheesecake pan in baking dish or
skillet and set on oven rack. Carefully pour boiling water around the
pan to a depth of about 1-inch. Slide oven rack in gently to avoid
sloshing. Bake until cheesecake has puffed and risen slightly and is
just beginning to shrink from the edges of the pan, about 4045
minutes. Remove cheesecake from water bath and cool on a rack. When
completely cool, cover and chill for at least 12 hours or up to 2
days before serving.

To unmold and serve: Cover the pan with tightly stretched plastic
wrap. Place a flat dish on top of plastic. Invert pan and dish and
rap the pan gently until cheesecake is released from pan. Remove pan
and peel parchment liner from bottom of cake. Place cake circle or
serving plate on the cake and carefully invert so that cake is right
side up. Remove plastic wrap. Press crumbs around sides of cake. Cut
with a sharp thin knife. Dip the knife in hot water and wipe it dry
between cuts. Yield: 10 to 12 servings

NUTRITIONAL DATA BASED ON 10 SERVINGS: 238 Calories; 8.3 grams fat (31
percent calories from fat); 11.2 grams protein; 30.5 grams
carbohydrates;
106    milligrams cholesterol.

TIPS

The suave texture of this cheesecake relies on ultra smooth cottage
cheese. This requires a food processor and at least 2 1/23 minutes or
processing, no cheating.

Once the Neufchatel Cheese has been added, pulse only enough to
incorporate. over processing thins the batter.

If you use nonfat cottage instead of low fat, the results will be not
be nearly as good and you would save only about .4 grams of fat per
serving. It's not worth it.

BAKERS' DOZEN ALICE MEDRICH SHOW #BD1A50

For the lemon curd:

