Title: Lobster Salad With Avocado And Sorrel
Categories: Tvfn
Yield: 4 servings
2 tb Olive oil
2 tb Lemon juice
1 tb Red wine vinegar
1 ts Cumin
1    Red onion - sliced
3    Ripe avocados - medium dice
1    Tomato - concasse
2    Cloves garlic - minced
3    Chili's - mild - minced
12    Leaves sorrel - julienned
15 lg Mint leaves - julienned
2 tb Olive oil
2 tb Lemon juice
Salt and pepper
Sorrel Vinaigrette:
1 c  Chopped sorrel - washed
1/2 c  Parsley leaves - lightly
Packed - washed
1 tb Chopped shallot
1/4 c  Lemon juice
1/2    To 3/4 cup olive oil
Salt and pepper - to taste
2 ea 1 1/2 to 2 -pound lobsters
For the Court Bouillon:
2 qt Water
2 c  White wine
1/2 c  White wine vinegar
1 md Onion
6    Sprigs thyme
6    Sprigs parsley
1/2    Lemon
5    Stalks celery - sliced
1    Leek - cut in half and
Sliced
1    Bulb fennel - sliced
6    Peppercorns - sliced
In a blender combine sorrel, parsley, shallot, and lemon juice. Puree
until liquified. With motor running, slowly drizzle in olive oil.
Season with salt and pepper. Yield 1 squirt bottle In a bowl mix
together the olive oil, lemon, red wine vinegar and cumin. Add the
sliced onions and toss. Cook the onions over the grill until tender.
Cool and dice. Put onions back in marinade. Set aside. In a bowl
gently mix together the avocado, tomato, garlic, marinated onions,
chili=s, sorrel, and mint. Finish with olive oil, lemon juice and
salt and pepper to taste. Set aside. For the lobster: Twist off the
claws and joints of the lobster and then twist the tail off the body.
Slide a blunt dinner knife under the shell of the lobster belly. This
will keep the body meat flat during poaching. For the Court Bouillon:
Add all ingredients together and in a shallow pot bring to a boil.
Reduce to a simmer. Place the claws and body in the poaching liquid
and cook over a gentle simmer for 10-12 minutes. The claws will take
2-4 minutes longer than the bodies. Remove from liquid and let cool.
Crack shells using a mallet or a heavy French knife. Slice the body
meat on a bias into medallions. Slice the claw meat in half. Any
extra lobster scraps can be chopped fine and used as a garnish for
the finished presentation. For the Frisee garnish:

1 1/2    cups Frisee
1/2    lemon - juiced 1 tablespoon extra virgin olive oil Salt and
pepper 2 tablespoons chives - chopped

Mix all ingredients together. To assemble: Place a 3-inch flan mold
in the middle of a chilled plate and fill with the avocado mixture.
Remove mold and cover with 4-5 slices of lobster medallions. Top each
salad with frisee salad. Drizzle sorrel vinaigrette around the plate.
Sprinkle excess lobster meat around the plate.

For the Avocado Salad:

