Title: Lucerne Cheese Torte Part 1
Categories: Baker
Yield: 4 servings
1 c  Sifted cake flour
1 tb Granulated sugar
1/8 ts Salt
2 tb Unsalted butter
4 lg Eggs, room temperature
1/2 c  Granulated sugar
1 ts Vanilla
Position rack in lower third of over 5 to 6 inches from the bottom and
preheat to 350 degrees.  Using a paper towel, grease the bottom and
sides of a 8-inch round pan with solid shortening.  Dust generously
with allpurpose flour, tilt to distribute, then tap out excess, and
insert a parchment or waxed paper liner.

Pour the flour, 1 tablespoon sugar, and salt in that order into a
triple sifter or sieve.  Sift onto a sheet of waxed paper to
distribute the sugar evenly and to remove any lumps in the flour, set
aside. Melt the butter in a small saucepan over low heat.  Pour into
a 1 quart mixing bowl, and set aside.

Crack the eggs into the bowl of a heavy-duty mixer.  Add the 1/2 cup
sugar, and whisk by hand to combine.  Rest the bowl in a shallow pan,
such as a 10 inch skillet, filled with 1-inch of water that feels hot
to the touch (120 degrees).  To prevent the eggs from setting, whisk
them continuously for about 30 seconds.  Now test if the mixture has
warmed to body temperature, taking care that it does not exceed 110
degrees. You will notice if you rub a little mixture between your
thumb and forefinger that it does not feel granular. This is because
the sugar begins to dissolve and forms a partial solution.

Attach the bowl to the mixer, and with the whisk attachment, whip on
medium speed (#5) until the mixture has cooled and increased
considerably in volume (tripled or more), appears light in texture
and almost white in color, and has thickened to the consistency of a
whole egg meringue (about 3 to 4 minutes).  Pour in the vanilla
during the final moments of whipping. Test if it is time to fold in
the flour by lifting the whisk. If some of the mixture falls back
into the bowl in ribbons and remains on the surface, proceed.  But if
it sinks back into the batter right away, continue whipping for a few
more minutes, or until the desired consistency is achieved. Then
remove the bowl and its whisk from the mixer.

With the aid of a flexible metal icing spatula, scoop up one third of
the flour mixture, and sprinkle it over the top.  Using a rubber
spatula, fold the mixture into the batter just until

incorporated.  Repeat procedure two more times, folding just until
all the flour has been absorbed.

Gently pour about 1 cup of the batter into the melted butter, and
with the rubber spatula, fold until combined.  Return the butter
mixture to reserved batter, and again fold to combine.

Gently pour the mixture into the pan, taking care not to deflate the
foam structure you have created.  With a rubber spatula, smooth the
top of the batter, working from the center outward, until a slightly
raised ridge forms around the outside rim.  (Since the cake bakes
faster near the metal rim, mounding the batter around the edges
assures a more evenly baked layer.)  Bake for 25 to 27 minutes, or
until the top springs back slightly when lightly touched, sounding
spongy when tapped, and the sides begin to contract from the pan.
Even an aroma similar to that of freshly scrambled eggs pervades your
kitchen as an indicator.

Place the cake on a rack to cool for 5 to 10 minutes.  With mitts,
tilt and rotate the pan, and gently tap it on the counter to see if
the cake is releasing from the metal sides.  If not, or if in doubt,
run a small metal spatula or the thin blade of a table knife between
the outside cake edge and the metal rim, freeing the sides and
allowing air to get under the layer as it is rotated.  Cover the pan
with another cooking rack, invert it onto that rack, and carefully
lift the pan from the cake to remove. Slowly peel off the parchment
liner, turn it over so that the sticky side faces up, and reposition
it on top of the cake. Cover with the first rack, invert the layer
right side up, and remove the top rack.  Allow cake to cool
completely.

If you plan to assemble a dessert later in the day or the next, leave
the genoise out, uncovered, on a rack to airdry.  (Most genoises
benefit from slight staling since they will absorb the dessert syrup
more easily.) The theory behind using dessert syrup is twofold: It
makes it possible to keep the dessert longer, and it adds to a
complexity of flavors.) To use within 2 days, wrap the genoise in
plastic wrap. To freeze it (for no more than 10 days), cover the
plasticwrapped package in foil. To protect the cake's delicate
structure, place the foilwrapped package in a sturdy container, such
as a metal tin, before freezing.  Add a label, indicating the
contents and date baked.

Yield: one 8 x 1 3/4 inch round layer

BAKERS' DOZEN FLO BRAKER SHOW #BD1A12

