Title: Macaroni And Cheese (From The Dean And Deluca Cookbook)
Categories: Taste
Yield: 4 servings
1 tb Olive oil
1 md Onion, thinly sliced
1    Clove garlic, minced
4 sm Yellow and/or orange bell
Peppers, trimmed and cut
Into very thin
Strips
2 sm Zucchini (6 ounces total),
Cut crosswise into thin
Slices, then
Into thin strips
2 sm Yellow crookneck squash (6
oz Each), cut crosswise into
Thin
Slices, then into thin
Strips
Salt and freshly ground
Pepper to taste
8 oz Imported Italian penne or
Another short tubular shape
3 tb Unsalted butter
3 tb All-purpose flour
2    Sprigs fresh rosemary
4    Fresh sage leaves
1    Bay leaf
1 1/2 c  Milk
1 1/4 c  Grated Italian fontina
Cheese
Preheat the oven to 425 degrees.

Heat the olive oil in a large nonstick skillet over moderate heat and
stir in the onion. Cook, stirring, for 2 minutes. Add the garlic and
cook, stirring, for 1 minute. Raise the heat slightly and add the
bell peppers. Cook, stirring for 2 minutes. Add the zucchini and
yellow squash and cook, stirring for 2 minutes. Season with salt and
pepper and set aside.

Cook the pasta in a large kettle of boiling salted water for 4
minutes. Drain the pasta and rinse it with cold water.

Heat the butter in a medium-size heavy saucepan over moderate to
moderately high heat until it becomes a medium nutty brown, being
careful not to burn it. Stir in the flour, rosemary, sage and bay
leaf. Cook, stirring constantly, for 2 minutes. Slowly add the milk
and cook, stirring, for 4 to 5 minutes, or until sauce is very
thick--the consistancy of sour cream. Strain the sauce and season
well with salt and pepper. Cool slightly.

Return the pasta to the same large kettle and stir in the sauce. Add
the vegetables and 1 cup grated fontina and blend completely. Place
the mixture in a deep earthenware or glass baking dish (about 9
inches by 13 inches by 2 inches). Sprinkle with the remaining
fontina. Bake for 20 minutes, until the pasta is brown and crunchy on
top. Yield: 6 servings

Suggested drink: Sauvignon, Castello della Sala, Umbria

TASTE SHOW #TS1G30

