Title: Mexican Crab Cakes
Categories: Tvfn
Yield: 4 servings
3    Whole Dungeness Crabs (about
6    Pounds), or 1 1/2 pounds
Picked over
Crabmeat
2 lg Eggs
1 c  Sour cream
2    Poblano chiles, stemmed,
Seeded, and finely diced
1    Yellow bell pepper, stemmed,
Seeded, and finely diced
1    Rib celery, finely diced
3/4 ts Salt
1/2 ts Freshly ground black pepper
1 c  Fresh bread crumbs
2 tb Unsalted butter
2 tb Vegetable oil
Mint and Parsley Salad (for
Serving, recipe attached)
In a very large stockpot, bring about 6 quarts water to a boil.
Plunge the crabs headfirst into the water, and cook for 12 minutes
from the time the water returns to the boil. Remove the crabs with
tongs and set aside. When cool, remove the triangular belly flap on
the underside and discard. Turn crab over and starting from rear of
crab, pull firmly to lift off top shell, and discard. Pull off and
discard the spongy fingers from the body and the tiny paddles from
the front. Scoop out the orange crab butter and, if desired, reserve
for another use. Cut the body into quarters and pick the crabmeat
from inside, using a small fork or a metal pick, and reserve. Twist
the claws and legs off of the body. Crack the claws and legs along
the edges of the shells, using a heavy nutcracker or a small hammer.
Pick the crabmeat from the claws and legs, and reserve.

Try to keep the crabmeat in fairly large chunks, but make sure you
get all of it.

In a large mixing bowl, beat the eggs lightly. Add the sour cream,
diced poblano and yellow peppers, celery, salt, and pepper. Toss
together until well mixed. Add the crab, shredding it into
approximately 3/4inch chunks, and the bread crumbs. Mix together
gently but thoroughly.

Divide the mixture into 12 cakes, shaping them into patties about
3/4inch thick and 3 inches in diameter. Refrigerate them on a large
plate, loosely covered, for 1 hour.

Preheat the oven to 300 degrees. In a large heavy skillet, heat 1
tablespoon of the butter and 1 tablespoon of the oil over mediumhigh
heat. Saute 6 crab cakes at a time, for about 3 minutes on each side,
being very careful when you turn them so that they do not fall apart.
They should be golden brown on each side. Place the cooked crab cakes
on a baking sheet in the oven to keep warm while you add the
remaining butter and oil to the pan and saute the other six crab
cakes in the same way.

Serve warm on Mint and Parsley Salad.

Yield: 6 servings

TOO HOT TAMALES SHOW #TH6206

