Title: Mixed Seafood Paella With Garlic Aioli
Categories: 2hot
Yield: 4 servings
1/2 lb Medium shrimp, shelled and
Deveined
1 lb Firm white fish (such as
Monkfish), cut into 1-inch
Cubes
1 lb Squid, cleaned, cut into
1/2    -inch rings, tentacles
Halved
Coarse salt
6 c  Fish stock
1/4 ts Crumbled saffron threads
1/2 c  Dry white wine
1/3 c  Olive oil
2    Green bell peppers, seeded
And finely chopped
10    Cloves garlic, minced
1 ts Paprika
3    Tomatoes, peeled, seeded and
Finely chopped
3 c  Short-grain rice
1 tb Finely chopped parsley
2    Bay leaves
1/2 c  Frozen organic peas
16    Mussels, cleaned
Garlic aioli (recipe
Follows)
Place the shrimp, fish and squid in a colander, sprinkle with coarse
salt and let sit while preparing the remaining ingredients. Combine
the stock, saffron, and wine in a saucepan, and bring to a boil while
cooking fish.

Heat the olive oil in a wide paella pan set over two burners. Add the
shrimp, fish, and squid, and cook for 2 minutes, stirring frequently.
Remove the shrimp and fish, leaving the squid in the pan. Add the
peppers to the pan, and saute 2 to 3 minutes. Add the garlic and
saute another minute to release the aromas. Stir in the paprika and
tomatoes, and saute 1 minute to release the aromas. Add the rice,
toss to coat it with the tomato mixture, and stir in the parsley and
bay leaves.

Preheat an oven to 350 degrees F.

Add the hot broth to the pan, along with the peas. Boil for 5 to 10
minutes, or until some of the liquid reduces. (Paella should have just
enough liquid to cook rice, but not be soupy). Adjust seasonings.
Stir in the reserved shrimp and fish, and arrange the mussels over
the paella with the edges that will open facing up.

Transfer paella pan to the oven and cook, uncovered, for 10 to 12
minutes, or until rice is almost cooked and most of the liquid is
absorbed.

Remove paella from oven, cover loosely, and let sit for 10 minutes
before serving. Serve with the Garlic Aioli.

Yield: 4 to 6 servings

TAMALES WORLD TOUR SHOW #WT1B38 SPAIN: PAELLA

