Title: Moist Poached Salmon - Second Time Around
Categories: Try it
Yield: 2 servings
MMMMM----------------COOKING MONDAY TO FRIDAY # M---------------------
4    Salmon steaks , 8 ounces
Each
1 c  Dry white wine
3 c  Water
Dill stalks
Whole peppercorns
MMMMM------------------TOMATO BUTTER DILL SAUCE-----------------------
2 tb Butter
4    Plum tomatoes, seeded and
Finely chopped
2 tb Minced dill fronds
(Start with 4 steaks so you have enough for next day, second time
around).

Arrange salmon steaks, over dill stalks, in a single layer a shallow
skillet wide enough to accommodate them without crowding. Season with
salt and pepper. Add enough wine and water to completely cover
salmon; add peppercorns. Slowly bring liquid barely to a simmer.
Reduce heat to low, cover and simmer until top of salmon looks
opaque, 2 to 3 minutes. Turn heat off and let stand covered for 10
minutes or until other parts of your meal are completely cooked.
Remove 2 salmon steaks from poaching liquid and blot both sides of
fish with paper towels. Top with tomato sauce. Leave other steaks in
liquid until completely cooled to room temperature. Then remove, and
refrigerate, covered for next day.

TOMATO BUTTER DILL SAUCE: Heat butter until golden, saute tomatoes
just to warm; add dill off heat, season with salt and pepper.

To assemble hot meal: Place a bed of rice on a plate; top with salmon
steak and spoon any steaming juices over salmon. Garnish with warm
tomato sauce.

Nutritional information per serving:  xx calories, xx gm protein, xxx
mg cholesterol, xx gm carbohydrate, xxx mg sodium, x gm fiber, xx gm
fat (x gm sat, x gm mono, x gm poly), x mg iron, xx mg calcium, xx%
of calories from fat.

Brought to you by MMCONV and Sylvia Steiger, SylviaRN (at) compuserve
(dot) com (change characters as needed, this is to prevent bulk
E-mailers from capturing my address), moderator of GT Cookbook and
FringeNet Lowfat & Luscious echoes.  For breadmachine tips and mixes,
visit my homepage: http://ourworld.compuserve.com/homepages/SylviaRN

