Title: Moroccan Chicken With Preserved Lemons And Olives
Categories: Tvfn
Yield: 4 servings
5    To 6 pounds chicken,
Preferably small chickens
Weighing no more than 2 or
2 1/2    Pounds, including livers and
Giblets
1    Lemon, cut into quarters
Handful of fine sea salt
1/2 c  Minced cilantro
1/2 c  Minced flat-leaf parsley
2 tb Minced garlic
1 tb Ground ginger
Freshly ground black pepper
To taste
1/4 ts Saffron threads
2    Whole preserved lemons
1/4 c  Water
1/2 c  Extra-virgin olive oil
4 md Onions, halved and very
Thinly sliced
1 tb Sweet paprika
1 tb Unsalted butter (optional)
1 c  Best-quality black or violet
Olives
Remove all traces of fat and any fibers from the chickens. Rinse
thoroughly, inside and out, in cool running water. Rub them all over,
inside and out, with lemon quarters, being sure to rub between the
skin and flesh of the breasts. Rub salt all over the chickens. Set
aside in a cool place to drain for at least 30 minutes or refrigerate
the chickens covered, overnight. Trim any greenish spots off the
livers and pull away and discard giblet linings. When you=re ready to
cook, rinse the chickens again in cool running water and pat them dry
with paper towels. Set aside.

In a heavy pot or kettle large enough to hold all the chickens, mix
the cilantro, parsley, garlic, ginger and pepper. Crumble the saffron
into the herbs. Cut one of the preserved lemons into small pieces and
add to the mixture along with the water.

Mix the seasoning all together well, then put the chickens into the
pot and use your hands to rub them all over, inside and out, with the
seasoning sauce. Add the giblets to the middle of the pot, pour the
olive oil over, and set the kettle on very low heat. As the chicken
begins to sizzle in the sauce, add the onions and shake the pan to
distribute evenly around the birds. Cover the pan and cook very
slowly until the chickens are thoroughly cooked and the onions have
almost disintegrated into the sauce. After 30 minutes of cooking, add
the livers to the pot, together with the paprika, shaking the kettle
to distribute the paprika in the sauce. Total cooking time will be 1
1/2 to 2 hours.

When the chickens are thoroughly cooked, remove them from the sauce.
Cut whole chickens into halves or quarters and arrange them on a warm
platter. Take the gizzards and hearts out of the sauce, cut them into
small bits, and stir them back in. Using a fork, coarsely crush the
livers in sauce. Sauce should be quite thick; if it seems too thin,
let it boil down, stirring frequently, until it is the right
consistency. Add the butter if desired and the olives. Swirl the pan
to distribute the olives and emulsify the sauce. Pour the sauce over
the chickens on the platter and garnish with strips of peel from the
second preserved lemon. (If you are not using preserved lemons,
garnish the chickens with grated lemon zest).

Yield: 4 servings

GOURMET GETAWAYS WITH ROBIN LEACH SHOW#GG1A01

