Title: Old Fashioned Strawberry Rhubarb Tart
Categories: Live
Yield: 4 servings
2 c  All-purpose flour
1/4 c  Sugar
1/4 ts Salt
1/2 ts Baking powder
1    Stick unsalted butter
2 lg Eggs
Strawberry Rhubarb Filling:
1 pt Strawberries
1 1/2 lb Fresh rhubarb
3/4 c  Sugar
1/2 c  Water
1/2 c  Orange juice
2 tb Finely grated orange zest
2 tb Orange liqueur
2 tb Cornstarch
2 tb Butter
Egg Wash:
1    Egg
1    Egg yolk
pn Salt
For the dough, combine dry ingredients in a mixing bowl and stir well
to mix. Add butter and rub in finely, making sure to leave the
mixture cool and powdery. Whisk the eggs and stir into the mixture in
the bowl. Continue stirring until the dough masses together. Scrape
out onto a floured work surface and knead lightly until smooth. Wrap
and chill.

For the filling, rinse, hull and slice the strawberries. Rinse,
string and cut the rhubarb into 2-inch lengths. Bring the sugar,
water, orange juice and zest to a boil in a saucepan; add the
strawberries and rhubarb and return to a simmer, stirring often. Be
careful not to over cook. Drain well and reserve 1 cup of the liquid.
Return the reserved liquid to a boil. Combine the liqueur and
cornstarch smoothly and stir into the boiling liquid, continuing to
stir and cook until clear and thickened. Allow to simmer 1 minute,
stirring. Stir in the drained fruit and the butter. Chill while
preparing top crust.

Roll less than half the dough on a floured surface and fit it into a
10 or 11-inch tart pan. Pour in the filling and spread evenly on the
dough. Roll the remaining dough to a 12-inch disk and cut into
1/2-inch strips. Flour a cookie sheet or cake cardboard and arrange
half the strips on it horizontally, about 1/2-inch from each other.
Weave in the other strips vertically, again about 1/2-inch from each
other, to form a woven perpendicular lattice. Chill the lattice until
firm.

Whisk the egg, yolk and salt together until liquid. Remove tart and
lattice from refrigerator. Paint lattice with egg wash and slide it
onto the surface of the filling. Trim away extra dough at edge of
pan, pressing the edges of the top crust well against the top edge of
the bottom crust.

Bake at 375 degrees on the bottom rack of the oven about 30 minutes,
until well colored and gently bubbling. If top crust does not color
sufficiently, place tart on top rack of oven for 5 minutes. Cool
slightly and serve warm or at room temperature.

COOKING LIVE SHOW #CL9110

Sweet Pastry Dough:

