Title: Pad Thai
Categories: Try it, Main dish
Yield: 4 servings
MMMMM-----------------TAMALES WORLD TOUR #WT1A06----------------------
6 oz Flat rice noodles
1/2 bn Purple basil, leaves whole,
Stems removed (or any fresh
Basil)
3 tb Oil
3 oz Firm tofu, diced
1    Boneless, skinless whole
Chicken breast, cut into
Strips; or
1 lb Peeled, deveined shrimp
Salt
1 1/2 tb Paprika
3    Eggs, beaten
3    Garlic cloves, pureed
1/4 c  White vinegar
1/4 c  Fish sauce
2 tb Palm sugar or brown sugar
1/2    To 1 teaspoon roasted chile
Paste or red pepper flakes
1 tb Dried shrimp
2 tb Finely chopped dryroasted
Peanuts
1 c  Bean sprouts
1/2 c  Mint leaves
2    Scallions, white and green
Parts, thinly sliced
2    Limes, cut into wedges, for
Garnish
Soften the noodles according to the package directions (noodles
usually need to soak in warm water for about 15 minutes), and drain.
Set aside.

Heat a wok or large skillet over high heat. Add 1 tablespoon of the
oil, add the basil leaves and fry just until crisp, about 1 minute.
Lift leaves out with a slotted spoon and drain on paper towels. Add 1
more tablespoon of oil to wok. Add the tofu, chicken or shrimp, salt
and paprika, and stirfry until cooked through and browned, about 3 to
5 minutes. Stir in the eggs and scramble, while shredding them with a
spoon, until egg is just set. Transfer everything from wok to a bowl.
Wipe out the wok.

Reheat wok and add remaining tablespoon oil. Add the garlic and
stirfry until aromas are released, about 10 seconds. Add the vinegar,
fish sauce, palm or brown sugar, and heat through. Add the drained
noodles and toss until the noodles have absorbed most of the sauce,
about 3 minutes. Add the red chile paste, dried shrimp, ground
peanuts, bean sprouts, and reserved tofu, chicken or shrimp and eggs,
and toss thoroughly.

Transfer the mixture to a platter. Garnish with reserved fried basil
leaves, mint leaves, scallions and lime wedges.

Nutritional information per serving:  xx calories, xx gm protein, xxx
mg cholesterol, xx gm carbohydrate, xxx mg sodium, x gm fiber, xx gm
fat (x gm sat, x gm mono, x gm poly), x mg iron, xx mg calcium, xx%
of calories from fat.

Brought to you by MMCONV and Sylvia Steiger, SylviaRN (at) compuserve
(dot) com (change characters as needed, this is to prevent bulk
E-mailers from capturing my address), moderator of GT Cookbook and
FringeNet Lowfat & Luscious echoes.  For breadmachine tips and mixes,
visit my homepage: http://ourworld.compuserve.com/homepages/SylviaRN

