Title: Pan-Fried Dumplings
Categories: Emeril
Yield: 4 servings
Dumpling Dough:
2 c  Flour
1    To 1 1/4 cup very hot water
1 ts Salt
Dumpling Filling:
Same as for spring roll in
Above recipe
3 tb Peanut oil, for the wok
1 c  Very hot water, for the wok
1/4 c  Chopped green onions
For dough: Place the flour in a large mixing bowl. Add the hot water
in a steady stream, mixing with a fork until most of the water has
been incorporated. If the mixture is dry add a little more water. The
dough should be moist but not sticky. Remove the dough from the bowl
and knead it on a floured board until it is smooth. Return the dough
to the bowl and let it rest, about 5 minutes. Knead the dough on a
floured board, dusting with a little flour to prevent from sticking.
Form the dough into a roll about 18 inches long and about 1 inch in
diameter. Using a sharp knife cut the roll into 4 equal lengths. Cut
each length into 8 pieces to make 36 equal segments. Press each
segment with the palm of your hand and roll it into a 3 1/2 inch
round. Cover the finished rounds with a damp cloth. Pinch one side of
the dough until you have four pleats along the side, and the dough is
rounded and shell-like. Place 2 teaspoons of the filling in the
center of each round, filling the hollow. Fold the dough over the
filling and pinch the two sides together until you have a half-moon
dumpling.

To fry: heat the wok and add the peanut oil when the pan is hot. Add
the dumplings, pleated edge up, in a single layer, crowding them in
wok. Cook until they are lightly brown on the bottoms. Pour in the
very hot water, cover tightly, and cook vigorously for 2 minutes.
Turn the heat down to a simmer and continue to cook for another 8-10
minutes or until most of the water has evaporated. Uncover the pan
and continue cooking until all of the moisture has evaporated and the
wok is sizzling again and the dumplings are golden brown and crisp on
the bottoms.

To boil: Drop them into a large pot of salted, boiling water for 2
minutes. Remove from the heat and leave them in the water for about
15 minutes. Garnish with green onions.

Yield: 36 dumplings

ESSENCE OF EMERIL SHOW #EE2265

