Title: Patria Pork
Categories: Tvfn
Yield: 4 servings
Marinade-
1/2 c  Chopped white onion
1/4 c  Distilled white vinegar
1/4 c  Chopped fresh cilantro
Leaves
2 tb Chopped fresh thyme leaves
2 tb Chopped fresh oregano
Leaves
8    Cloves garlic
3    Bay leaves
1 tb Cumin seeds
2 tb Salt
Pepper to taste
4 c  Water
5 lb Boneless pork butt, trimmed
Excess fat
Black Bean Broth:
1 lb Dried black beans
1 lb Chopped fresh oregano
Leaves
1 ts Ground cumin
2    Bay leaves
2 qt Water
6    Red bell peppers, seeded
2    White onions
20    Cloves garlic
Boniato Puree:
2 lb Boniato, peeled and cut into
1/2    Inch dice
4 c  Milk
2 c  Water
2 tb Extra virgin olive oil
8    Cachuca peppers, seeded and
Minced
1/2 c  Chopped fresh cilantro
Leaves
Juice of 4 limes
Garnish:
1    Boniato
3 c  Vegetable oil
Using a mandolin slicer, cut the boniato into strips. Heat the oil to
350 degrees in a deep fryer or heavy-bottomed saucepan. Immediately
add the boniato strips. Deep-fry until golden, 3 to 4 minutes
(cooking in batches if necessary). Remove the strips with a wire mesh
strainer and drain on paper towels.

Place all the marinade ingredients except the water in a food
processor or blender. With the motor running, add the water gradually
to form a puree.

Place the pork in a large ovenproof dish or nonreactive pan and pour
the marinade over the pork. Cover, and marinate in refrigerator for
12 hours, or overnight. Turn the pork occasionally.

Preheat the oven to 300 degrees. Place the pork and marinade in the
oven and bake until the pork is very tender and almost falling apart,
about 3 hours. Remove the pork and let cool slightly. Using two
forks, shred the pork.

Meanwhile, to prepare the black bean broth, place the beans, oregano,
cumin, bay leaves, and water in a large sauce-pan, adding more water,
if necessary, to cover the beans. Bring to a boil, reduce the heat,
and simmer for 2 hours, adding enough water to keep the beans
covered. Place the bell peppers, onions, and garlic through a juicer
and add the juice to the saucepan and simmer for another 20 minutes.

To prepare the boniato puree, place the boniato, milk and water in a
large saucepan and bring to a boil. Lower the heat and simmer until
tender, about one hour. Drain the boniato and mash with a fork. Add a
touch of milk, if necessary, to keep the boniato moist.

While the boniato is cooking, heat the olive oil in a large skillet
and add the shredded pork, peppers and cilantro. Cook over
medium-high heat, stirring continuously, until crispy. Add the lime
juice at the last minute.

Spoon some mashed boniato onto each serving plate. Serve the pork on
top of the boniato and ladle some of the black bean broth around it.

Yield: 8 to 10 servings

GOURMET GETAWAYS WITH ROBIN LEACH SHOW #GG1A2 (courtesy Douglas
Rodriguez, Patria, New York)

