Title: Peach Pouch Pie With Berries
Categories: Live
Yield: 4 servings
1    Recipe of The Flaky Pie
Shell, unbaked
Filling:
2/3 c  Plus 1 teaspoon sugar
3 tb Cornstarch
3 lb Ripe but firm peaches,
Peeled and sliced 1/2-inch
Thick (6 cups)
1/2 c  Blueberries, picked over
1/2 c  Raspberries, picked over
On a lightly floured surface, roll out the chilled dough into a
14-inch round. Using a 9-inch pie pan as a template, place it rim
down on the dough and cut out a circle about 2 inches larger than the
rim with a pastry wheel. Slide a long metal spatula underneath the
dough to loosen it. Fold the dough round in half, center it over the
pie pan and open it. Gently press the dough against the bottom and
sides of the pan without stretching it. The dough should drag on the
table. Set the pie pan on a bowl to allow the edge to hang down;
refrigerate for 30 minutes. Preheat the oven to 450 degrees. Place a
piece of foil on the bottom of the oven to catch any drips. Make the
filling: In a large bowl, whisk 2/3 cup of the sugar with the
cornstarch. Gently toss in the peaches. Let sit for 10 minutes.

Meanwhile, remove the pie shell from the refrigerator. Gently toss the
peaches. Let sit for 5 minutes longer. Combine the blueberries and
raspberries and gently stir them into the peaches. Pour the fruit
into the pie shell and distribute it evenly. Scrape in all the liquid
and any undissolved sugar clinging to the bowl. When the dough is
pliable, fold the overhanging edge to cover the outer portion of the
filling, leaving a 5-inch opening of exposed fruit in the center of
the pie.

Using a pastry brush, moisten the surface of the dough with cold
water. Sprinkle the remaining 1 teaspoon sugar over the dough. Bake
the pie on the lower rack of the oven for 20 to 30 minutes, until the
crust begins to brown. Then lower the temperature to 375 degrees and
bake for 35 to 45 minutes longer, until the fruit is bubbling and the
crust is nicely colored. Transfer to a rack to cool for at least 2
hours.

Yield: One 9-inch pie

COOKING LIVE SHOW #CL8944

All Recipes Courtesy of Peggy Cullen

