Title: Pecan Crusted Duck Confit And Wilted Spinach Salad
Categories: Try it, Main dish, Poultry
Yield: 4 servings
MMMMM--------------------EMERIL LIVE #EMIA67-------------------------
1 c  Finely chopped bulk
Andouille
2 tb Minced shallots
1 tb Minced garlic
1/2 c  Finely chopped yellow
Onions
1/4 c  Balsamic vinegar
3/4 c  Olive oil
Salt and black pepper
4 c  Fresh spinach, cleaned,
Stemmed and firmly packed
1 c  Julienned red onions
1 c  Roasted pecans
1 1/2 c  Flour
Essence
1    Egg beaten with 1 tablespoon
Milk
4 ea Duck confit legs
In a hot saute pan, render the andouille for 1 minute. Add the
shallots, garlic, and onions. Saute for 2 to 3 minutes. Remove from
heat and add the balsamic vinegar. Turn into a mixing bowl and whisk
in the 3/4 cup of olive oil. Season with salt and pepper. In a food
processor, combine the pecans and 1/2 cup of the flour. Pulse until a
fine ground crust is formed, but not pureed like a paste. Season the
crust with Essence. In a shallow bowl, season the remaining flour
with salt and pepper. Season the egg wash and duck legs with salt and
pepper. Dredge the legs in the seasoned flour. Dip each leg in the
egg wash, letting the egg wash, drip off. Dredge the legs in the
pecan crust, coating the leg completely. In a large saute pan, heat
the remaining olive oil. When the oil is hot, lay each leg into the
hot oil. Pan-fry the legs for 3 minutes on the first side, flip the
legs over and remove the pan from the heat. Place the pan in a 400
degree oven. Cook the duck legs for 6 minutes. In a large mixing
bowl, toss the spinach, red onions and vinaigrette together. Add to a
hot skillet until spinach is just wilted. Season with salt and
pepper. Mound the greens in the center of four plates. Lay each leg
on top of the greens. Garnish with black pepper.

Nutritional information per serving:  xx calories, xx gm protein, xxx
mg cholesterol, xx gm carbohydrate, xxx mg sodium, x gm fiber, xx gm
fat (x gm sat, x gm mono, x gm poly), x mg iron, xx mg calcium, xx%
of calories from fat.

Brought to you by MMCONV and Sylvia Steiger, SylviaRN (at) compuserve
(dot) com (change characters as needed, this is to prevent bulk
E-mailers from capturing my address), moderator of GT Cookbook and
FringeNet Lowfat & Luscious echoes.  For breadmachine tips and mixes,
visit my homepage: http://ourworld.compuserve.com/homepages/SylviaRN

