Title: Pecan-Crusted Fish With Pecan Crab Relish
Categories: Emeril
Yield: 4 servings
1 1/2 c  Flour
2 c  Roughly chopped toasted
Pecans
1 tb Creole spice
Salt and pepper
2    Eggs
1 tb Milk
2    6-ounce fish fillets (such
As lemon fish or any
Firm-fleshed fish)
2 tb Diced red pepper
1 tb Minced shallots
1 tb Chopped green onions
1 tb Olive oil
Juice of 1 lemon
1/2 c  Crabmeat, picked over for
Shells and cartilage
Pecan Meuniere Sauce:
Juice of 2 lemons
1/4 c  Worcestershire sauce
1 tb Minced shallots
2 tb Heavy cream
1    Stick butter, chilled and
Cut into small pieces
1/4 c  Chopped pecans
2 tb Oil, for sauteing
Thinly-sliced chives, for
Garnish
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. In workbowl of food processor combine
1/2 cup of flour, 1 cup of pecans, 1 teaspoon Creole spice, salt and
pepper and process until just smooth but not oily; transfer to a
shallow bowl. In another shallow bowl mix remaining flour with 1
teaspoon spice; in a third bowl whisk egg with milk. Season fish with
remaining spice. Bread fish, dipping it first in seasoned flour, then
in egg wash, then in pecan mixture. Set aside on a plate.

Make relish: In a small bowl combine remaining pecans, red pepper,
shallots, green onions, olive oil, lemon juice and crabmeat; season to
taste with salt and pepper. Set aside.

Make sauce: In a saucepan combine lemon juice, Worcestershire sauce
and shallots, bring to a boil and reduce until thick and syrupy. Add
cream and reduce by half. Reduce heat to very low. Whisk in butter, a
few pieces at a time, until sauce begins to lightly emulsify; remove
from heat if butter melts too quickly. When butter is fully
incorporated whisk in pecans. Taste and adjust seasonings. Set aside
and keep warm.

In an ovenproof saute pan heat oil until shimmering. Add fish and cook
until golden. Carefully turn fillets and transfer skillet to oven to
finish cooking. Bake about 12 minutes. To serve, ladle sauce onto 4
dinner plates, top with some of the fish and a portion of crab salad.
Garnish with chives.

Yield: 4 servings

ESSENCE OF EMERIL SHOW#EE120

