Title: Pecan Crusted Mozzarella
Categories: Try it
Yield: 4 servings
MMMMM-----------------ESSENCE OF EMERIL #EE2365----------------------
2 c  Roasted pecans
1 1/2 c  Flour
2    Eggs, beaten plus 2
TB milk
8    2-ounce slices of fresh
Mozzarella
Salt and white pepper
1 c  Plus, 3 tablespoons olive
Oil
1 md Yellow onion, julienne
1 md Red onion, julienne
2 tb Minced shallots
1 tb Minced garlic
1/4 c  Rice wine vinegar
1 tb Honey
8 c  Fresh spinach, stemmed and
Cleaned
Black pepper
In a food processor, puree the pecans until smooth. Add enough flour
to bind the pecans and form a crust, about 1/2 cup. Season the crust
with Essence. Season the remaining flour with Essence. Season both
sides of Mozzarella cheese with salt and pepper. Dredge each slice of
cheese in the flour. Dip each slice in the egg wash, removing any
excess. Dredge the slices in the pecan crust, covering the entire
slice completely.

Set the cheese aside. In a sauce pan, heat a tablespoon of the olive
oil. When the oil is hot, saut&eacute; the onions until they
caramelize, about 8 minutes. Add the shallots and garlic. Whisk in
the olive oil and vinegar. Stir in the honey to taste. Bring the
dressing up to a simmer. Season with salt and black pepper. In a
saut&eacute; pan, heat the remaining olive oil. When the oil is hot,
pan-fry the cheese for 1-2 minutes on each side or until the crust is
golden.

Remove from the oil and drain on a paper-lined plate. Season with
Essence. Toss the spinach with the dressing and mound in the center
of the plate. Arrange the cheese around the greens. Garnish with
black pepper around the rim.

Nutritional information per serving:  xx calories, xx gm protein, xxx
mg cholesterol, xx gm carbohydrate, xxx mg sodium, x gm fiber, xx gm
fat (x gm sat, x gm mono, x gm poly), x mg iron, xx mg calcium, xx%
of calories from fat.

Brought to you by MMCONV and Sylvia Steiger, SylviaRN (at) compuserve
(dot) com (change characters as needed, this is to prevent bulk
E-mailers from capturing my address), moderator of GT Cookbook and
FringeNet Lowfat & Luscious echoes.  For breadmachine tips and mixes,
visit my homepage: http://ourworld.compuserve.com/homepages/SylviaRN

