Title: Pecan Crusted Chicken Breast With Chili Cumin Butter
Categories: Tvfn
Yield: 4 servings
2 c  All purpose flour
3    Whole eggs
1/2 c  Milk
2 tb Vegetable oil
2 c  Bread crumbs
1 c  Pecans, finely chopped
1/2 ts Salt
1/2 ts Black pepper
1/4 c  Parmesan cheese
1 1/2 lb Boneless, skinless, chicken
Breast
1/4 c  Vegetable oil for frying
(more if necessary)
4 oz Unsalted butter
2 tb Ancho chili paste
1 tb Toasted and ground cumin
Seed
Several parsley sprigs,
Leaves only
Several cilantro sprigs,
Leaves only
1 tb Lime juice
1/2 ts Ground black pepper
For the breading process:  Three separate containers (preferably flat
and wide baking dishes or gratin dishes) will be needed; one for the
flour, one for wet ingredients and one for the breading ingredients.
Place the flour into its chosen dish.  Whisk the eggs together with
the milk and 2 tablespoons oil.  Combine the bread crumbs, pecans,
salt, pepper and Parmesan cheese until uniformly mixed. Using a meat
tenderizer or other flat object to pound the chicken breasts to a
flat and uniformly 1/4-inch thick cutlet.  Dip the cutlets, one at a
time into the flour first, next the egg mixture and finally the dry
breading mix. Try to keep one hand dry and work one hand wet or use
tongs to transfer the chicken from one dish to another.  When all of
the chicken has been coated, place on a dish and refrigerate until
ready to cook.  This may be done in advance. Make the flavored butter
by placing the butter, chili paste, cumin seed, parsley, cilantro,
lime juice and ground black pepper in the bowl of a food processor.
Pulse to combine well and remove. Lay a piece of waxed paper 12 by 16
inches out flat and scrape the flavored butter onto the waxed paper,
at about 1/3 the length up, into a sausage shape. Roll the edge of
the paper over the butter and enclose the butter to form a tubeshape.
Roll the remaining paper up as you would a cigar and place this log
of butter into the freezer for at least 3 hours until it is brick
hard.  This butter may be made well in advance and keeps, frozen, for
up to 1 month. To cook the chicken, heat a large saute pan over
medium heat, with the 1/4 cup of oil until hot.  Add the chicken to
the oil, cooking in batches to avoid over crowding the pan, and cook
until golden brown about 6 minutes. Turn the chicken over and cook
the second side for an additional 6 minutes until the center is
cooked and the juices run clear. Transfer to a platter and keep warm.
Remove the butter from the freezer, unwrap, and cut into 1/4-inch
thick round slices.  After all the chicken has cooked, place 1 or 2
slices of butter on each piece of chicken, allowing the heat from the
chicken to melt the butter into the chicken coating.

Serve with lemonsteamed asparagus and herb scented rice.

Yield: 4 to 6 servings

MICHAEL'S PLACE SHOW #ML1A41

