Title: Peking Duck (Adapted From Recipe From Shun Lee Palace)
Categories: Taste
Yield: 4 servings
4 1/2    -5 Peking duck, head intact
With cavity hole as small as
Possible
6 c  Water
1 ts Honey
4 tb Rice wine
2 tb White vinegar
5 tb Cornstarch slurry (mixed
With water to a gravy
Consistency)
Vegetable oil for deep
Frying
For the Pancakes:
3 c  All-purpose flour
1 1/2 c  Boiling water
1 tb Cold water
Sesame oil to taste
Scallion Brushes and Hoisin
Sauce as accompaniments, if
Desired
Remove wing tips and feet from duck. Neck skin should be intact with
only a tiny hole made about 2 inches above the base of the neck.
Remove cavity fat and discard.

Rinse the duck and massage the entire body by rubbing the skin back
and forth, loosening it from the meat. Make sure skin is not
punctured. Insert a bicycle pump hose into the neck hole. Keep cavity
closed as you pump air into the duck -- inflating it until the skin
is taut, rubbing and rolling the skin as it is being inflated to
distribute air evenly. Insert a meat hook through the neck bone and
hang to dry, in a cool place, for 1 hour.

In a wok combine the boiling water, honey, rice wine, white vinegar,
and cornstarch slurry, and stir until lightly thickened. Hold the
duck by the hook and dip it in and out of the boiling water, turning
it from side to side, while ladling water over the skin. Do this
until the skin is well coated, about 1 minute. Then hang duck up to
dry for at least 12 hours or overnight in a draft near a window or
other breezy place, spreading paper on floor to catch drippings. If
no cool area is available, hang duck from back of a chair and blow a
fan on it for several hours. (Alternatively, set duck, unwrapped, on
a rack with a pan underneath to catch drippings. Refrigerate, turning
occasionally.)

If your oven is large and tall, remove all racks except the top one.
Preheat the oven to 425 degrees. Cover a large pan with aluminum foil
to reflect heat and to catch drippings and place the pan in the
bottom of the oven. Hook the duck vertically over the top rack in the
center of the oven over the drip pan. Roast for 15 minutes. Reduce
heat to 350 and roast for 1
1/4    hours.

(Alternatively, use a vertical roasting rack set in a roasting pan and
roast as above. Or place the duck on a rack over the roasting pan in
the middle of the oven and roast at 425 F. for 15 minutes. Turn
breast side down and roast another 15 minutes. Turn again, reduce
heat to 350 and roast for 3/4 hour.

For the pancakes: Mix the flour with the boiling water until
combined, and add 1 tablespoon cold water to mixture. Knead the dough
for 4 minutes, or until soft and smooth. Let it rest for 30 minutes,
covered with a bowl.

Divide the dough into 2 equal portions and knead it until smooth.
Roll one portion into a 16-inch log and divide it into 16 pieces.
Repeat with the remaining dough. Take each piece and stand it upright
on the heel of your hand, round off the dough and then flatten it
with your other hand into a circle 2-2 1/2 inches in diameter. Paint
surface of half of the pieces with pastry brush dipped in sesame oil;
place remaining pieces on the oiled pieces, making 16 pairs. Using
rolling pin roll the pairs into thin pancakes about 6-6 1/4 inches in
diameter, rotating circles frequently to insure even thickness.

Heat an unoiled frying pan until hot. Add 1 pair of cakes and fry 1
minute or until light brown spots appear underneath. Lift up the
edges to check for spots. Turn them over and allow them to puff up,
indicating they are done. Separate each pair into 2 pancakes. Repeat
with remaining pancakes. Transfer the pancakes to a steamer and steam
them for 5-10 minutes.

To finish the duck: Put the duck in a wok with 4-6-inches of oil,
heated to 375 degrees.. Ladle the oil over duck. Cook the duck in
this fashion for 2 1/2 minutes per side to crisp the skin.

Put the duck on a cutting board. Disjoint the wings and drumsticks and
place them apart at either end of serving platter, outlining the form
of a whole duck. With a razor sharp knife carve the skin on the duck
with a very thin layer of meat, trying to make slices as large as
possible. Transfer them to the platter. Remove all the meat from the
carcass and cut it into strips about

1 2 inches long. Arrange the meat strips in center of platter and
then cut the strips of skin crosswise into comparable pieces. Lay
these over meat.

To eat: put a pancake on a plate, smear on some Hoisin sauce (with
scallion brush if desired) and top with 1-2 pieces of skin, either on
their own or with meat as well. Add a scallion brush and roll up the
pancake.

Suggested drink: Chinese Black Tea

Yield: 4 servings

TASTE SHOW #TS4855

