Title: Peppernuts
Categories: Tvfn
Yield: 4 servings
1 c  (2 sticks) unsalted butter,
At room temperature
1 c  Light or dark brown sugar,
Packed
1 lg Egg
1 c  Ground toasted filberts or
Almonds
2 1/2 c  All-purpose flour
1 ts Baking powder
1/2 ts Baking soda
1 ts Freshly ground cardamom
1/2 ts Ground cinnamon
1/2 ts Ground cloves
1/2 ts Ground allspice
1/2 ts Ground nutmeg
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F. In the large bowl, cream the
butter with the sugar using an electric mixer. Add the egg and ground
nuts. In another bowl, mix the flour with the baking powder, soda,
cardamom, cinnamon, cloves, allspice and nutmeg. Blend the dry
ingredients into the creamed mixture until a stiff dough forms. Shape
the dough into a ball. (At this point, you can wrap the dough in
plastic wrap and refrigerate it to develop the flavor, for up to a
week). Cut off a portion of the dough at a time and roll between your
hands and a lightly floured work surface to make slim, ropes about
1/2-inch thick. Place 4 or 5 ropes on an ungreased cookie sheet. Cut
ropes into 1/2-inch pieces using a sharp, small knife. Separate the
pieces. Bake for 8 minutes or until the cookies are lightly browned
and dry. Remove from the oven; cool on the baking sheet.

Yield: about 600 tiny peppernuts

I like to make these spicy peppernuts in quantity so that I can serve
them in baskets - like you would salted nuts or candy. They add a
wonderful, spicy aroma to the air. This is based on a recipe I
received many years ago from a Danish friend. Although the mere idea
of baking hundreds of nut-sized cookies sounds like an enormous
amount of work, I've simplified

the procedure. I just roll the dough into 1/2 inch thick strips and
cut them into 1/2 inch pieces with scissors, dropping the dough bits
right on an ungreased cookie sheet. I can bake a hundred or more on
one baking sheet! The flavor of the peppernuts mellow and improves
after being stored in an airtight tin in a cool place for 3 to 4 days.

BAKERS' DOZEN BEATRICE OJAKANGAS SHOW #BD1A58

