Title: Plain Flan
Categories:
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM------------------TOO HOT TAMALES #THT6107-----------------------
6 lg Eggs
6 lg Egg yolks
2 1/2 c  Sugar
2 ts Vanilla extract
2 c  Half-and-half
1    Vanilla bean
MMMMM-----------------------CONDENSED MILK----------------------------
6 c  Nonfat milk
5 tb Sugar
MMMMM--------------------------CARAMEL-------------------------------
2 c  Sugar
1 1/4 c  Water
Condensed milk: In heavy saucepan pour milk and bring to a boil.
Reduce to a simmer and cook for about 45 minutes, stirring
occasionally. Stir in sugar and continue simmering 10 to 15 minutes,
or until milk has reduced to 3 cups. Strain. Milk can be refrigerated
for up to one week.

Caramel: In medium-sized saucepan combine sugar and 1/2 cup of the
water. Use a pastry brush dipped in cold water to wash down any sugar
granules from the pot's sides. Cook over a moderate heat, swirling
the pan occasionally, until the color is dark brown and the mixture
has the distinctive fragrance of caramel, about 10 to 15 minutes.
Pour caramel into a 9-inch round cake pan, coating the bottom and the
sides, some caramel will be left over. Swirl to coat evenly. Slowly
and carefully add the remaining 3/4 cup of water to the caramel left
in the saucepan. Bring to a boil and cook over moderate heat until
the caramel dissolves, about 5 minutes. Occasionally stir and brush
down the sides with the pastry brush dipped in cold water to prevent
crystallization. Set this caramel sauce aside to chill until serving
time.

Prepare the caramel and coat a 9-inch round cake pan, reserving the
extra caramel sauce in the refrigerator as directed above. Preheat
oven to 325 degrees. In large mixing bowl gently whisk together eggs,
egg yolks, 1/2 cup sugar, vanilla extract and half-and-half. Whisk
together without incorporating any air. In saucepan pour condensed
milk. Split vanilla bean lengthwise and, using tip of a paring knife,
scrape seeds into the milk. Add the bean and bring to a boil. Once
milk has reached a boil, pour into egg mixture, whisking
continuously, until fully combined. Pass through a strainer into the
caramel coated cake pan. Place inside a large roasting pan and pour
hot tap water into the roasting pan until it rises halfway up the
sides of the flan. Bake for 1 hour to 1 hour and 10 minutes, until
the center feels firm when pressed. Set aside to cool in the pan of
water. Once cool, remove from the water bath, cover with plastic wrap
and refrigerate 4 to 6 hours or overnight. To serve, run a knife
along the inside of the pan and gently press the center of the bottom
to loosen. Cover with a platter, invert and lift off the pan. Excess
caramel can be drained from the cake pan and added to the reserved
caramel sauce. Cut in wedges and serve topped with cold caramel sauce.

Nutritional information per serving:  xx calories, xx gm protein, xxx
mg cholesterol, xx gm carbohydrate, xxx mg sodium, x gm fiber, xx gm
fat (x gm sat, x gm mono, x gm poly), x mg iron, xx mg calcium, xx%
of calories from fat.

Brought to you by MMCONV and Sylvia Steiger, SylviaRN (at) compuserve
(dot) com (change characters as needed, this is to prevent bulk
E-mailers from capturing my address), moderator of GT Cookbook and
FringeNet Lowfat & Luscious echoes, creator of Frazzled Cook
breadmachine mixes, homepage
http://ourworld.compuserve.com/homepages/SylviaRN

