Title: Profiteroles
Categories: Taste
Yield: 4 servings
1 c  Water
1    Stick butter, cut into small
Pieces
1/8 ts Salt
1 c  Flour
3    To 4 eggs
1    Egg yolk, beaten with 1
ts Water, for glaze
1 qt Vanilla ice cream
6 oz Bittersweet chocolate
6 oz Semisweet chocolate
1 c  Heavy cream
1/2 c  Freshly-brewed strong
Coffee
Cognac or rum
Preheat oven to 425 degrees F. Butter and flour baking sheet. In a
saucepan combine water, butter, cut into pieces and a pinch of salt
and bring to a boil over high heat; butter should melt just as water
boils. Reduce heat to medium and add flour all at once, beating with
a wooden spoon until dough pulls away from sides of pan and forms a
ball. Transfer dough to bowl of an electric mixer, begin beating on
high speed and add 3 eggs, one at a time, beating well after each
addition. Batter should be elastic and just stiff enough to hold soft
peaks. If batter is still stiff, break fourth egg into a small bowl,
whisk well and add just enough of the egg to the batter to thin to
proper consistency. Transfer warm dough to a pastry bag fitted with a
1/2-inch tip. Pipe 18 1 1/2-inch puffs at least 2 inches apart on
prepared baking sheet. Brush with egg wash, gently smoothing tops of
puffs. Bake in upper third of oven for 10 minutes. Reduce heat to 400
degrees F and bake for 15 to 20 minutes more, or until puffed and
golden. Remove sheet, turn off oven and piece sides of each puff
several times with the tip of a sharp knife. Return sheet to
turned-off oven and let puffs stand 30 minutes, with oven door ajar,
to dry. Transfer to racks to cool completely.

Soften ice cream to scooping consistency. Line a baking sheet with
waxed paper. Use a small ice cream scoop to scoop out 18 1 1/2-inch
ice cream balls. Freeze until solid.

In a double boiler or in a bowl set over a saucepan of barely
simmering water, melt chocolates with cream and coffee, stirring
occasionally, until smooth and warmed through. Add cognac or rum, to
taste. Keep warm over warm water until ready to serve.

To serve, slice puffs in half, fill bottom of each with an ice-cream
ball and replace top. Arrange 3 on each plate and serve immediately.
Pass a warm sauceboat of hot fudge sauce for each person to pour over
their own dessert.

Yield: 6 servings

TASTE SHOW #TS4730

