Title: Profiteroles With Bourbon Ice Cream
Categories: Tvfn
Yield: 4 servings
2 c  Whole milk
6    Extra-large egg yolks
1/2 c  Granulated sugar
1 c  Heavy cream
3 tb Bourbon
1 tb Dark rum
1/2 ts Freshly grated nutmeg
For the cream puff batter
(pate a choux):
5    Extra-large whole eggs
1 c  Water
1    Stick (1/4 pound) unsalted
Butter
1/8 ts Salt
1/4 ts Granulated sugar
1 c  Sifted unbleached flour
1    Recipe Fudge Sauce (recipe
Follows)
For the egg wash:
1    Egg combined with 1
TB water
Special Equipment:
Ice Cream Maker
Pastry bag with a straight
md Tip (optional)
Bakers' parchment
To make the ice cream, pour the milk into a heavy-bottomed pot. Bring
the milk gently to a boil over medium heat, being careful not to
scorch it or allow it to boil over. Lower the heat and simmer 10
minutes, uncovered. Remove from heat.

Meanwhile, in the large bowl of an electric mixer, bet the egg yolks
and sugar together at medium speed 5 minutes. Then add several
tablespoons of the hot milk to the egg/sugar mixture to temper the
eggs. Return the pot of milk to the stove and, over low heat, add the
egg yolk/sugar mixture in a slow, steady stream, stirring with a
wooden spoon. Continue to cook 7 or 8 minutes, stirring constantly,
until the custard has thickened and coats the back of a spoon. Remove
from heat and cool completely in an ice water bath. Stir in the
bourbon, rum, and nutmeg.

When the custard has cooled completely, add the heavy cream and freeze
according to the directions for your ice cream maker. While the ice
cream is freezing, begin the pate a choux, the classic French pastry
from which cream puff shells (profiteroles) are made.

Being careful not to break the yolks, break the eggs into a measuring
cup or another container from which they can be poured one at a time,
and set the container beside the stove. In a heavy-bottomed pot,
bring the water, butter, salt, and sugar to a boil. When the liquid
boils, stir in the flour all at once, using a wooden spoon. Reduce
the heat to low and stir continuously 3 to 4 minutes, until the
mixture pulls together and away from the sides of the pot. Chefs call
this "cooking the flour out". What you are doing is coking away the
raw flour flavor.

Still over low heat, add the eggs, one at a time, incorporating each
egg individually until it is completely absorbed by the flour before
adding the next one. During this process, the mixture will take on a
shiny gloss and become very elastic. When all of the eggs have been
incorporated, remove from heat, place the mixture in a
stainless-steel bowl and cool completely.

To make the profiteroles, preheat the oven to 425 degrees. Using a
pastry bag with a straight medium tip, pipe out approximately 1
rounded tablespoon batter for each profiterole onto a cookie sheet
lined with lightly buttered bakers parchment, spacing them
approximately 1 inch apart. If a bag and tip are unavailable, use a
tablespoon to mound the batter on the bakers paper.

Brush each profiterole lightly with the egg wash, place in the
preheated oven and bake 15 minutes before reducing the temperature to
350 degrees. Bake until the puffs are golden brown, about 12 minutes
more. Remove from oven and allow to cool. When they have cooled
completely, cut open and fill with a small scoop of ice cream. As you
fill each profiterole, place it in the freezer to keep the ice cream
frozen until you are ready to serve. To serve, place 1 profiterole on
each plate, top with Fudge Sauce, and serve immediately.

MICHAEL'S PLACE SHOW # ML1B45 PROFITEROLES

For the ice cream:

