Title: Ricotta Filled Crepes With Berry Sauce
Categories: Live
Yield: 4 servings
1/2 c  Unbleached all purpose
Flour
1/2 ts Salt
3 lg Eggs
1 c  Milk
2 tb Unsalted butter, melted
1 tb Brandy (optional)
Berry sauce:
1/4 c  Water
1 tb Cornstarch
10 oz Frozen strawberries or
Raspberries, thawed
2 tb Orange liqueur
Ricotta filling:
15 oz Container ricotta cheese
1/2 c  Confectioner's sugar
1 ts Vanilla extract
1/2 ts Grated orange zest
pn Ground nutmeg
1/4 c  Minced candied orange rind
Or citron (optional)
Combine flour and salt in a medium bowl. In a separate bowl, whisk the
eggs, milk, butter and brandy, if using, until blended. Add to the
flour all at once and gently stir with the whisk until blended. Let
stand for at least 1 hour at room temperature. (The batter can be
refrigerated, covered, overnight; stir to blend before using.)

Make berry sauce: In a small saucepan combine water and cornstarch
and stir until the cornstarch is dissolved. Add the strawberries or
raspberries. Heat, stirring, until the mixture boils and thickens.
Remove from the heat and stir in orange liqueur, if desired. Set
aside.

Make ricotta filling: In a bowl, mix together the ricotta, sugar,
vanilla, zest, nutmeg, and optional candied orange rind. Set aside.

Heat a 6 or 7-inch heavy nonstick skillet or crepe pan over medium
heat until hot enough to sizzle a drop of water. Brush with a thin
film of vegetable oil, or spray with nonstick cooking spray. Ladle
about 3 tablespoons batter (or a scant 1/4 cup measure) into the hot
pan and quickly tilt to coat the pan and make a thin pancake.

Cook the crepe until the edges begin to curl and the underside is
golden, about 1 1/2 minutes. Loosen the edges of the crepe with a
thin flexible spatula or a heatproof rubber spatula and gently turn.
Cook the underside until lightly spotted with color, about 30
seconds. Turn the crepe out onto a wire rack.

Repeat with the remaining batter, stirring it occasionally. As the
crepes are made, transfer them from the rack to a pie plate. Cover
lightly with a piece of foil and keep warm in an oven set at the
lowest temperature. Fill with the ricotta mixture and drizzle with
the berry sauce.

The crepes can be cooled, wrapped in foil and refrigerated for a few
days before reheating in a warm oven. They can also be frozen for at
least 1 month. Cool, stack them on top of one another and wrap
tightly in foil and then in a freezer bag. The crepes need no paper
between them; they will not stick together when frozen or
refrigerated. They thaw at room temperature in about 1 hour, and can
be reheated right in the foil without unwrapping.

Yield: 15 crepes

COOKING LIVE SHOW #CL9061

All recipes courtesy of Marie Simmons, "Pancakes A to Z"

