Title: Roast Suckling Pig
Categories: Toohot
Yield: 4 servings
10    15 pound dressed, oven ready
Suckling pig (see Note)
1 1/2 c  Orange juice
3/4 c  Fresh lime juice
3/4 c  Fresh grapefruit juice
2 tb Coarse sea salt
1 tb Freshly ground black pepper
1    Grapefruit, quartered
2    Oranges, halved
2    Limes, halved
1 lg Onion, quartered
1    Head garlic, halved
1    Bay leaf
3    To 4 sprigs fresh thyme
1 bn Watercress, tough stems
Removed, for garnish
1 bn Curlyleafed parsley, tough
Stems removed, for garnish
4    Blood oranges, peel and pith
Removed with a sharp knife
Lemon, lime, or apple for
The mouth
Preheat the oven to 450 degrees. In a bowl, combine the orange, lime,
and grapefruit juice and whisk together. Wash and pat the pig dry
with paper towels. Sprinkle inside and out with the salt and pepper
and place it in a large roasting pan, belly side up. Place the
grapefruit, oranges, limes, onion, garlic, bay leaf, and thyme inside
the cavity and skewer it closed. Turn belly side down and place a
ball of wood or a rolled up piece of aluminum foil about the size of
a lemon in the pigs mouth. Skewer the legs into position by pulling
the forelegs forward and bending the hind legs into a crouching
position (this will help a large pig fit in a home oven, if it fits
already, this is not necessary). Cover the tail and ears with small
pieces of foil to prevent them from burning. Place the pig in the
oven and baste with the citrus juice mixture. After the pig has
roasted for 15 minutes, baste it again with the citrus juice mixture
and reduce the heat to 325 degrees. Roast for 20 minutes per pound
longer, basting generously every 15 or 20 minutes with the juice
mixture and then the pan juices. To test for doneness, prick the
thigh with the tip of a sharp knife to see if the juices run clear.
The internal temperature should read 165 degrees on a meat
thermometer inserted into the thickest part of the leg. Remove from
the oven and allow to rest for 10 minutes, loosely tented with a
large piece of aluminum foil. Distribute the parsley and watercress
sprigs loosely around the edges of a large warmed oval platter. Halve
the trimmed blood oranges and place them around the edges of the
platter, nestled in the greens. Remove the foil from the tail and
ears and replace the wood or foil from the mouth with a lemon, lime,
or apple. Carve at the table, with confidence.

Yield: 10 to 12 servings

Note: Most good butchers will be able to obtain a small suckling pig,
given 1 or 2 weeks notice. Ask them to dress the pig and remove the
eyeballs and lower lids.

TOO HOT TAMALES SHOW#TH6237

