Title: Roasted Stuffed Veal Chops
Categories: Emeril
Yield: 4 servings
2 ts Olive oil
4 oz Pancetta, diced
3/4 c  Minced yellow onions
1 tb Plus 2 teaspoons chopped
Garlic
Salt
Freshly ground black pepper
4 oz Fromage Blanc
1 tb Chiffonade fresh basil
4    Double-cut veal loin chops
(12 to 14 ounces each)
1/4 c  Vegetable oil
2 tb Minced shallots
1/2 c  Chopped, peeled and seeded
Fresh tomatoes
1/2 c  Dry red wine
1 c  Veal stock
1 tb Finely chopped fresh parsley
Leaves
2 tb Chopped green onions, green
Parts only
1 tb Unsalted butter
Preheat the oven to 400°F. In a sauté pan, over medium heat, add 1
teaspoon of olive oil. When the oil is hot, add the pancetta. Render
until crispy, about 4 to 6 minutes. Add 1/2 cup of the onions. Sauté
for 2 minutes. Stir in 1 tablespoon of the garlic and remove from the
heat, cool slightly. In a mixing bowl, stir the pancetta mixture and
cheese together. Mix thoroughly. Season with salt and pepper. Stir in
the basil. Using a sharp knife, cut a pocket into the side of each
veal chop about 1 3/4 inches deep and 3 inches long. Season each
chop, on the outside and in the pocket with Essence. Stuff each chop
with 1/4 cup of the cheese mixture. Press the filling firmly into the
pockets. Heat the vegetable oil in a large skillet over medium-high
heat. Sear the chops for 4 minutes on the first side, being careful
not to char them. The color should be a little darker than golden.
Turn them over and set the other side for 3 minutes. Line a baking
sheet with parchment paper, reserving the pan and set the chops on
the paper. Roast the chops for 10 minutes for medium rare. Remove
from the oven and let stand 5 minutes before serving with the sauce.
In a small saute pan, heat the remaining olive oil. Add the remaining
onions and cook, stirring, for 1 minutes. Season with salt and
pepper. Add the shallots, remaining garlic, and tomatoes and cook,
stirring for 2 minutes. Add the wine and simmer for 4 minutes. Add
the stock, parsley, and green onions and simmer until slightly thick,
about another 5 minutes. Add the butter and stir to combine, about 20
seconds.

Yields: 4 servings

EMERIL LIVE #EMIB20

