Title: Salmon And Sea Scallop Sausage Black Bean Vinaigrette
Categories: Tvfn
Yield: 4 servings
1 lb Fresh salmon fillet, all
Skin and bones removed
1 lb Sea scallops
4    Egg whites
1 tb Warm honey
2 tb Grated ginger
2 ts Asian five spice powder
2 tb Thai fish sauce
1 ts Salt
1 ts Ground white pepper
1 c  Heavy cream
1/2 c  Finely chopped scallions
Divide the salmon into 2 pieces.  Cut one piece into a 1/4-inch
square dice and set aside and refrigerate.  Take half of the scallops
and cut them into 1/4-inch size pieces that resemble the way you cut
the salmon and set aside, refrigerated.  Place the remaining salmon
and scallops into the bowl of a food processor along with the egg
whites, honey, ginger, five spice, fish sauce, salt and pepper.
Process by pulsing until a smooth puree is achieved.  Turn off the
processor, scarp down the inside of the processor bowl, return the
cover to the bowl and pulse quickly 10 seconds. Add 1/4 cup of cream
and process 10 seconds more. Transfer the fish puree to a cold mixing
bowl set over ice and refrigerate. Whip the remaining cream until
soft peaks are formed. In a large bowl, combine the fish puree,
reserved salmon and scallop dice and the scallions. carefully fold in
the whipped cream trying not to deflate the cream to much. When all
of the ingredients are folded together refrigerate for at least one
hour. Cut plastic wrap into roughly 8 by 8-inch squares.  Place 1/2
cup of the fish mousse into the lower third of a piece of plastic
wrap and fold the edge of the plastic nearest you over to encase the
mousse.  Fold the two ends in to further enclose the mousse and roll
the tube of fish mousse as you would a cigar. This is should be a
sausage shape about 1 1/2 inches in diameter and about 4 inches long.
Continue to roll sea food sausage in this way until all of the mixed
is used. To cook the sausage, heat water in the bottom portion of a
steamer pot. Place the plastic wrapped sausage in the steamer insert
or an Asian steamer basket and set over boiling water. Cook for
approximately 10 to 12 minutes or until fully cooked.  Test for
doneness by piercing the center with a skewer.  It should come out
clean when cooked. Serve by carefully unwrapping the sausage and
DISCARDING THE PLASTIC WRAP prior to eating!

Serve on a bed of black bean vinaigrette.

Yield: 8 to 4-ounce sausages. 4 main course or 8 appetizer portions.

MICHAEL'S PLACE SHOW #ML1B19

