Title: Sauteed Veal Medallions with Sage and Mushrooms
Categories:
Yield: 4 servings
MMMMM------------------MICHAEL'S PLACE #ML1A05-----------------------
3 tb Olive oil
1 1/4 lb Veal tenderloin (also called
Filet) cut into 8 equal
Medallions
Salt and ground black pepper
To taste
1 c  Parboiled pearl onions
(frozen are fine)
12 oz Fresh, cleaned, sliced
Mushrooms such as cremini,
Portobello, shiitake, oyster
Or any combination
1/4 c  Dry white wine
1 c  Beef and Veal Stock
3 tb Chopped fresh sage leaves
2 oz Prosciutto ham, thinlysliced
And julienne
2 tb Whole butter
Season the veal with salt and pepper. Heat the olive oil in a skillet
over medium heat for 2 to 3 minutes, until hot. Add the veal and
brown well for 3 to 4 minutes on one side, then turn and brown the
second side for another 3 to 4 minutes. When the veal is nicely
browned on both sides, remove from the pan. In the same pan, saute
the onions in the pan juices for 3 to 4 minutes, or until they are
browned. Add the mushrooms to the onions and saute together until the
mushrooms begin to wilt. Add the white wine and reduce until the wine
evaporates. Add the veal stock, sage, and Prosciutto, and bring to a
boil. Reduce the heat to low, return the veal to the pan and reheat
for 1 minute to warm. Continue to cook the mushrooms and sage sauce
for an additional 10 minutes. Add the butter to the finished sauce
and whisk until it is incorporated. Serve the veal on individual
plates with some of the sauce spooned over it.

Nutritional information per serving:  xx calories, xx gm protein, xxx
mg cholesterol, xx gm carbohydrate, xxx mg sodium, x gm fiber, xx gm
fat (x gm sat, x gm mono, x gm poly), x mg iron, xx mg calcium, xx%
of calories from fat.

Brought to you by MMCONV and Sylvia Steiger, SylviaRN (at) compuserve
(dot) com (change characters as needed, this is to prevent bulk
E-mailers from capturing my address), moderator of GT Cookbook and
FringeNet Lowfat & Luscious echoes, creator of Frazzled Cook
breadmachine mixes, homepage
http://ourworld.compuserve.com/homepages/SylviaRN

