Title: Shirley's Basic Moist Sweet Cake, Version I
Categories: Live
Yield: 4 servings
1 1/3 c  Sugar
Nonstick cooking spray with
Flour, such as Baker's Joy,
Or 1 tablespoon
Shortening and 1 tablespoon
Flour, to grease pan
Parchment or waxed paper
1 1/2 c  Cake flour
1 1/2 ts Baking powder
1/2 ts Salt
1/2 c  Buttermilk at room
Temperature
1 ts Pure vanilla extract
1/4 lb (1 stick) unsalted butter at
About 65 degrees F (18
Degrees C)
2 lg Eggs at room temperature
3 lg Egg yolks at room
Temperature
1/3 c  Vegetable or other
Mild-flavored oil* (see
Note)
Place the mixer bowl and whisk beater in the freezer. Measure the
sugar into a zip-top plastic bag, seal and place in the freezer to
chill for about 20 minutes.

Place a shelf at the top of the lower third of the oven and preheat
to 350 degrees.

Grease a 9 by 2-inch round cake pan by spraying with nonstick cooking
spray with flour or by rubbing the pan with shortening, shaking the
pan with 1 tablespoon flour, and shaking out the excess. Insert a
9-inch parchment or waxed paper circle in the pan and lightly spray
or grease and flour.

Sift the flour, baking powder and salt onto a sheet of waxed paper.
Resift at least once more onto another piece of waxed paper. Measure
the buttermilk in a glass measuring cup and add the vanilla.

Cream the butter on medium speed in a mixer with the whisk until
light in color, about 3 minutes. Add the sugar in a steady stream
with the mixer running. Continue beating the butter-sugar mixture for
3 to 4 minutes, scraping down the sides of the bowl once. Add the
eggs and yolks one at a time, beating on medium speed for about 30
seconds after each addition. Continue to beat until the mixture is
light and airy looking, another 1 to 2 minutes.

Remove the bowl from the mixer and stir in the oil. Fold in half of
the flour mixture with a large rubber spatula. Scrape down the sides
of the bowl, then fold in half of the buttermilk-vanilla mixture.
Fold in the remaining flour and scrape down, then the remaining
buttermilk-vanilla mixture.

Pour the batter into the prepared pan. Smooth the batter with the
rubber spatula, leaving the edges a breath higher than the center.
Bake until a toothpick or cake tester inserted an inch from the
center comes out clean, about 35 minutes. The sides should just begin
to pull away from the pan when you place the cake on the rack to cool.

Let the cake cool in the pan for 10 to 20 minutes. Tap the sides of
the pan on the counter to loosen the cake or run a small spatula
around the edge. Spray a cooling rack lightly with nonstick spray and
invert the cake onto it. Peel off the parchment liner, then replace
the liner on the cake with the sticky side up. Invert back onto the
original cooling rack so that the cake is now right side up. Cool
completely before storing or icing.

*Note: Walnut, hazelnut or almond oil is good to use if you would
like a subtle flavor note. Make sure the oil is not off tasting since
nut oils turn rancid faster than others.

COOKING LIVE SHOW #CL9084

All recipes courtesy Shirley O. Corriher, "Cookwise"

