Title: Smoked Duck Stew With Smoked Duck Dumplings
Categories: Try it, Main dish, Poultry
Yield: 4 servings
MMMMM-----------------ESSENCE OF EMERIL #EE2412----------------------
2 tb Olive oil
6 tb Finely chopped onions, in
All
1/4 c  Small diced potatoes,
Blanched
1/4 c  Small diced celery
1/4 c  Small diced carrots
1/4 c  Small diced parsnips
1/4 c  Small diced turnips
12 oz Finely chopped smoked duck
Meat, in all
1/4 c  Chopped tomatoes, peeled and
Seeded
2 tb Finely chopped basil
1 tb Plus 1 teaspoon minced
Garlic
3 c  Duck stock
1 c  Red wine
Salt and black pepper
1 lg Egg
1/4 c  Beer
1/2 c  Flour
1/2 ts Baking powder
2 tb Chopped green onions
sm Loaf of crusty bread
Essence
In a large pot, heat the olive oil. When the oil is hot, saut&eacute;
4 tablespoons chopped onions, the potatoes, celery, carrots,
parsnips, and turnips and saut&eacute; for 2 minutes. Add the 1 1/2
cups of the duck meat, the tomatoes, basil, and 1 tablespoon minced
garlic. Stir in the stock and red wine. Season with salt and black
pepper. Bring the liquid up to a boil and reduce to a simmer. Simmer
for 20 to 25 minutes. In a mixing bowl, combine the egg, beer,
remaining garlic, 2 tablespoons onions, 1/2 cup duck meat, flour and
baking powder together. Season the batter with salt. Whisk until
smooth. Turn the heat up to high under the stew. When the stew starts
to bubble, place spoonfuls of the dumpling batter into the stew. Cook
the stew covered for 3 minutes or until the dumplings are cooked
through.

Ladle the stew into a large bowl. Arrange the dumplings over the stew.
Garnish with green onions and crusty bread.

Nutritional information per serving:  xx calories, xx gm protein, xxx
mg cholesterol, xx gm carbohydrate, xxx mg sodium, x gm fiber, xx gm
fat (x gm sat, x gm mono, x gm poly), x mg iron, xx mg calcium, xx%
of calories from fat.

Brought to you by MMCONV and Sylvia Steiger, SylviaRN (at) compuserve
(dot) com (change characters as needed, this is to prevent bulk
E-mailers from capturing my address), moderator of GT Cookbook and
FringeNet Lowfat & Luscious echoes.  For breadmachine tips and mixes,
visit my homepage: http://ourworld.compuserve.com/homepages/SylviaRN

