Title: Smoked Trout Hash With Choron Sauce
Categories: Emeril
Yield: 4 servings
1/2 c  Chopped, peeled, and seeded
Tomatoes
2 tb Fresh tarragon
Cayenne
1 tb Plus 2 teaspoons chopped
Garlic
3 tb Plus 1 teaspoon distilled
White vinegar
1 c  Dry red wine
1 tb Chopped parsley
2    Egg yolks
1/2 x  Fresh lemon
2 ts Water
1    Stick butter, melted and
Warm
2 md White potatoes, peeled and
sm Diced
Oil for frying
1 tb Olive oil
1/2 c  Minced onions
8 oz Smoked trout, flaked
Salt and pepper
4    Poached eggs
1 tb Chopped chives
Preheat the oil. In a saucepan, over medium-high heat, combine the
tomatoes, tarragon and 1 tablespoon garlic. Season the mixture with
salt and cayenne. Stir in 3 tablespoons vinegar and red wine. Bring
to a boil. Reduce the heat to medium and simmer for 20 to 25 minutes,
or until the mixture is dark brown and thick. Remove from the heat
and add the parsley. In a stainless steel bowl, over medium, set over
a pot of simmering water. Whisk the egg yolks with the juice of the
lemon and water. Season the egg mixture with salt and cayenne. Whisk
until the eggs are pale yellow in color and slightly thick. Remove
the bowl from the pot and whisk in the butter, 1 tablespoon at a
time, until all is incorporated. Fold the tomato mixture into the
hollandaise and set aside. Fry the potatoes until golden brown, about
3 to 4 minutes. Remove from the oil and drain on a paper-lined plate.
Season the potatoes with salt and pepper. In a large saute pan, over
medium heat, add the olive oil. When the oil is hot, add the onions
and saute for 2 minutes. Stir in the garlic and trout. Continue to
saute for 1 minute. Stir in the potatoes and continue to saute for 2
to 3 minutes. Over high heat, bring a pot of salted water to a boil.
Add the vinegar to the water. Carefully lay the poached eggs in the
water and cook for about 30 seconds, just to re-warm the eggs. Remove
the eggs from the water and drain on a paper-lined plate. Season the
eggs with salt and pepper. To assemble, spoon the hash in the center
of four plates. Lay a poached egg on top of each plate of hash.
Drizzle the choron sauce over each plate. Garnish with chives.

Yield: 4 servings

EMERIL LIVE SHOW #EMIA69 CREOLE JAZZ BRUNCH

