Title: Snowshoe Naan
Categories: Breads
Yield: 4 servings
2 1/2 c  Warm water
1 ts Dry yeast
1 1/2 c  Whole wheat flour
4    To 5 cups unbleached hard
White or all-purpose flour
1 tb Salt
1 ts Nigella (black onion seed)
You will need a large bowl, and unglazed quarry tiles or a baking
stone for the next-to-bottom rack of your oven.

Place water in a large bread bowl, add yeast, and stir.  Add whole
wheat flour and 1 cup white flour and stir well, then stir 100 times
in the same direction to develop the gluten (one minute).  Let this
sponge stand for
1/2    hour to 3 hours, covered.

Sprinkle salt over the sponge, then add another cup flour and stir.
Continue adding flour and stirring until you can stir no longer. Turn
dough out onto a lightly floured surface and knead thoroughly, about
ten minutes, until dough is smooth and easy to handle.

Clean out bowl, oil lightly, and return dough to bowl.  Cover with
plastic wrap and let rise in a convenient place for 2 to 3 hours.
When the dough has more than doubled in volume, push down gently and
turn out onto a lightly floured surface.  Divide the dough into eight
equal pieces and shape each into a flat oval shape, approximately 4
inches wide by 8 inches long.  Leave these flat disks out on the work
surface and cover with plastic wrap to let rise for approximately 20
minutes. Place quarry tiles or large baking stone on a rack in the
lower third of your oven, leaving a 1 inch space between the tiles
and the oven wall to allow air to circulate. Preheat oven to 450
degrees F.

Five minutes after the oven has preheated, begin shaping the first
bread. Place a small bowl full of cold water by the edge of your work
surface. Using your fingertips, first dip them in the water and then,
beginning at one end of the disk of dough, make tightly spaced
indentations all over the surface of the dough, so that it looks
pitted, though not pierced through. Now stretch the dough gently into
a long oval strip by draping it over both hands and pulling them
apart gently. The dough should stretch and give, and after several
tries will extend to make a long oval about 12 inches long with
attractive stretch marks along it from the stretched indentations
(hence, the name "snowshoe bread").

Place the bread back on the work surface, sprinkle with a pinch (less
than 1/8 teaspoon) of black onion seeds, then using both hands, place
the bread directly on heated quarry tiles or stone. While the bread
bakes, begin to shape the next bread.  Cooking time for each bread is
approximately 4 minutes.  You will soon develop a rhythm so that you
can bake two breads side by side across your oven, one going in when
the other is half done. When done, breads will have golden patches on
top and a crusty browned bottom surface. To keep breads warm and
soft, wrap them in a cotton cloth five minutes after they come out of
the oven.

Serve warm or at room temperature.

Yield: 8 rippled flatbreads about 12 inches long and 3 to 5 inches
wide, with both soft and crispy textures.

BAKERS' DOZEN ALFORD AND DUGUID SHOW #BD1A26

