Title: Souffle Au Chocolat Et Au Grand Marnier
Categories: Toohot
Yield: 4 servings
About 1 to 2 tablespoon
Unsalted butter, softened
About 1/4 cup white sugar
For the souffle(s):
4 tb Unsalted butter, cut into
Bits
7 oz Bittersweet or semisweet
Chocolate, chopped finely
2 tb Grand Marnier
4    Egg yolks
8    Egg whites
1/2 ts Cream of tartar
1/4 c  White sugar
Coat a large straight sided porcelain baking dish or souffle mold
(about 8-inches diameter and 4- deep) with the softened butter.
Alternatively, you can use eight individual straightsided porcelain
ramekins. Coat evenly and generously all the way to the top, making
sure to get the corners. Sprinkle in some sugar and toss around to
coat the bottom and sides of the mold or molds. Place molds in the
refrigerator to chill (if using individual molds, place them on a
cookie sheet first.)

Preheat oven to 400 degrees. Find a medium metal bowl that completely
covers the top of a small saucepan. Place 3 inches of water in the
saucepan and bring to the simmer. Turn off the heat. Place cut up
butter and chocolate in the bowl and place bowl over pan of hot
water. Let sit for 2 minutes then stir. It should be completely
melted; if not, remove the bowl, bring the water back to a simmer,
turn off the heat and replace the bowl. Stir until smooth. Stir in
the Grand Marnier. Set aside to let cool to room temperature. Place
egg yolks in the bowl of an electric mixer fitted with the whip. Beat
egg yolks at medium speed until opaque and lightened in color, about
3 minutes. Add to cooled chocolate mixture.

Bring medium pot of water to a boil. Clean mixer bowl and whip well,
and dry them. Place egg whites in bowl and whip at high speed 2
minutes, then reduce speed to medium and add the cream of tartar.
Whip until soft peaks form then slowly add the granulated sugar down
the side of the bowl while continuing to whip until firm peaks form.
Take 1/3 of the whites and whisk into chocolate mixture to lighten
it. Fold in remaining whites with a large rubber spatula, trying not
to deflate the whites. Fold gently but thoroughly until no white
streaks remain. Remove coated molds from the refrigerator. Fill mold
or molds with souffle mixture, up to 1/2-inch from rim. Run your
thumb around the inside of each mold to form a shallow groove all
around. When all molds have been filled transfer to the oven and bake
until risen and top is evenly dried, about 10 minutes for individual
soufflJs and about 25 minutes for a large. Serve immediately.

Classic souffle technique: egg yolks combined with flavoring base,
lightened with whipped egg whites and baked until risen. Very
important that all equipment used for beating whites be scrupulously
clean. Running thumb around mold encourages an even rise.

TOO HOT TAMALES SHOW #TH6348

For coating the souffle mold(s):

