Title: Stuffed Poblano Chiles With Walnut Sauce
Categories: Tvfn
Yield: 4 servings
4 md Ripe tomatoes (about 2
Pounds)
12 lg Poblano chiles
Vegetable oil for frying
2 sm Green or other cooking
Apples, peeled
4    Ripe, firm peaches, peeled
Or 1/2 cup dried
2 sm Ripe plantains, skin removed
6 tb Preserved citron, diced
6 tb Dark or golden raisins,
Softened in
1 c  Dry sherry
1 c  Unsalted butter or vegetable
Oil
2 md Onions, diced
4 c  Shredded pork butt
Salt, and freshly ground
Black pepper, to taste
Walnut Sauce, recipe follows
1 c  Pomegranate seeds
50    Italian parsley leaves
Heat a heavy cast-iron skillet or griddle over high heat until a drop
of water sizzles on contact. Roast tomatoes, turning several times,
until blistered on all sides. (Alternatively, roast them under a
preheated broiler, turning several times.) Cool just enough to
handle. Peel the tomatoes, remove the seeds and chop finely. Set
aside. Make a small (1 to 1 1/2-inch long) lengthwise slit in each
chile. Pour oil into a large heavy skillet to a depth of about
1/2-inch and heat over high heat until very hot but not quite
smoking. Fry the chiles, 3 at a time, turning once or twice, until
they puff up and take on an olive-beige color. Remove from pan as
they are done. Carefully peel chiles under cold running water. Very
gently pull out seeds through the slit in each chile, being sure not
to tear the flesh. Set aside. Dice the fresh and dried fruits and set
aside.

In a large skillet, melt butter or vegetable oil over medium heat
until very hot and fragrant. Add onion and garlic and saute for 3
minutes. Add fresh and dried fruit and saute for 3 minutes. Add
spices and pork and cook, stirring to combine, for 2 minutes more.
Season with salt and pepper to taste.

Carefully spoon the mixture into the chiles through the slit in each.
Preheat oven and bake on greased baking sheet or shallow pan for 5
minutes.

Cover the chiles with the Walnut Sauce and sprinkle with Pomegranate
seeds and a few leaves of Italian parsley. Chiles may be served warm
or at room temperature.

Yield: 6 servings

CHEF DU JOUR SHOW #DJ9161

