Title: Stuffed Shrimp With Creole Meuniere Sauce
Categories: Tvfn
Yield: 4 servings
12 lg Shrimp, tail on, peeled and
Butterflied
1/2 lb Fresh crab meat, picked over
For cartilage
2 tb Olive oil
2 tb Minced shallots
1 tb Minced garlic
1/4 c  Finely chopped onions
1/4 c  Small diced red peppers
2 tb Bread crumbs
1/4 c  Parmesan cheese
1    Egg yolk
1 ts Essence
2 ts Crystal Hot Sauce
1 ts Worcestershire sauce
1 ts Creole or other whole-seed
Mustard
Salt and pepper
Creole Meuniere Sauce:
2 tb Olive oil
1/2 c  Finely chopped onions
1/2 c  Finely chopped carrots
1/2 c  Finely chopped celery
2 tb Minced garlic
Juice of 1 lemon
3 tb Worcestershire sauce
1 tb Crystal hot sauce
3 c  Veal stock
Salt and pepper
1/2 c  Heavy cream
8 tb Unsalted butter, cut into
Cubes (1 stick)
1/4 c  Grated Parmesan Cheese
3 tb Shaved green onions
Heat the olive oil, lightly saute the shallots, garlic, onions, and
peppers, until tender, about 1-2 minutes. Season with Essence. Add
the crab meat, being careful in not breaking up the pieces. Remove
from the heat. In a mixing bowl, whisk the egg yolk. Add the hot
sauce, Worcestershire sauce, mustard, parmesan cheese, and bread
crumbs. Allow to cool for 1-2 minutes, then shape loosely into 12
balls, using about 2 tablespoons of the mixture. Season the shrimp
with 2 teaspoons Essence. Press one ball of stuffing into the cavity
of each shrimp and arrange the shrimp on a baking sheet. Sprinkle
with remaining Essence. Bake until golden brown, about 10 minutes,
remove from oven. For the sauce, in a sauce pot, heat the olive oil.
Lightly saute the onions, carrots, celery, and garlic, about 1-2
minutes. Season with salt and pepper. Add the lemon juice,
Worcestershire sauce, hot sauce, and veal stock. Cook over high heat
for 12 minutes. Turn off the heat, add the cream and mount in the
butter. Season with salt and pepper. Strain through a chinoise. Spoon
a small pool of sauce in the middle of the plate and arrange three
shrimp in the center. Top with shaved chives and Parmesan Cheese.

Yield: 4 appetizer servings

ESSENCE OF EMERIL SHOW#EE2279

