Title: Tea Smoked Chicken
Categories: Toohot
Yield: 4 servings
3 lb Whole chicken
1 ts Ground Szechwan peppercorn
1 tb Salt
1 ts Fivespice powder
Smoking Mixture:
1/2 c  Black tea leaves
1/2 c  Brown sugar
1/2 c  Raw rice
2    To3 chunks fresh ginger
2    To3 large strips of orange
Zest
2 tb Sesame oil
Scallion brushes
Wash the chicken and pat dry inside and out with paper towels. Combine
Szechwan peppercorns, salt, and fivespice powder in a small bowl. Rub
the seasonings into the outside and inside cavity of the bird. Place
the chicken in a large bowl, cover, and refrigerate 8 hours or
overnight.

Fill the lower part of a steamer with enough water to come within an
inch of the cooking rack. Bring the water to a rolling boil, place
the chicken on the rack, and cover the steamer. Steam the chicken for
45 minutes, keeping the water at a boil and replenishing it as it
boils away.

Line a large wok or a heavy Dutch oven with tightfitting lid with
heavyduty aluminum foil.

Combine the smoking mixture ingredients and spread over the foil in
the bottom of the pot. Turn the heat under the pot to high and place
a rack about 3inches above the smoking mixture so that the chicken
does not touch it. Place the chicken on the rack, breast side up.
Line the inside of the lid with more foil, leaving an excess of
3inches around the lid. Cover the pot tightly and crimp the foil down
so the lid fits securely and smoke doesn't escape.

After you detect smoke, smoke the chicken for 20 to 25 minutes. Turn
off the heat and let the smoke subside, about 5 minutes. The chicken
should be a rich, golden brown on the outside.

Lift out the smoked chicken and transfer to a cutting board.
Immediately brush the sesame oil lightly over the outside. Allow
chicken to cool, about 10 minutes. To serve, cut off the wings and
legs. Divide the body of the chicken in half lengthwise by cutting
through the breast and backbone. Lay the halves flat on the cutting
board, skinside up, and use a cleaver to chop through each half,
bones and all, into 3 to 4 equal pieces. Chop the wings and legs into
pieces as well. Arrange the chicken pieces on a large platter, and
garnish with the scallion brushes.

Yield: 4 to 6 servings

TAMALES WORLD TOUR SHOW #WT1B14 CHINA TEA SMOKING & TEA DRINKING

