Title: Tomato And Fresh Mozzarella Focaccia
Categories: Try it
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM-----------------ESSENCE OF EMERIL #EE2365----------------------
1/2    Warm water
2 ts Dry yeast
4 c  Flour
1/4 c  Plus 2 tablespoons olive
Oil
3 tb Chiffonade of basil
3    Creole/Beefsteak tomatoes,
Sliced into 1/4-inch slices
10    1-ounce slices of fresh
Mozzarella cheese
Salt and white pepper
Yield: 1 focaccia loaf

Preheat the oven to 425 degrees. Position the rack in the center of
the oven with a baking stone. Oil a 11 by 1-inch baking sheet. In a
large bowl, dissolve 1 teaspoon yeast into 1/2 cup water until the
mixture is cloudy, about 10 minutes. Add 3/4 cup flour. Cover with
plastic and let stand until the mixture is bubbly, about 45 minutes.
In a small bowl, dissolve 1 teaspoon yeast into 1 cup water. Again
let the mixture stand for about 10 minutes. In a large bowl, stir
dissolved yeast mixture and 1/4 cup olive oil into sponge mixture.
Stir in 1 cup flour. Stir in 2 tablespoons of basil, garlic, and 2
teaspoons salt. Add the remaining flour in 2 batches, mixing the
flour into the mixture thoroughly. Form the dough into a ball.

Place the dough in an oil bowl and let the dough rise in a warm place
until doubled in size, about 1 hour. Turn the dough out onto the
prepared pan. Press the dough out to cover the bottom of the pan.
Cover the dough with plastic and let the dough stand for about 10
minutes. Press the dough out again and let the dough rise until
double in size, about 1 hour. Season each slice of tomato and cheese
with salt and white pepper. Arrange the tomatoes on top of the dough.
Arrange the cheese on top of the tomatoes. Sprinkle with remaining
basil. Bake the focaccia until the bread is golden and crisp, about
25 minutes. Remove from the oven and cut into slices. Place on a
platter and garnish with Essence.

Nutritional information per serving:  xx calories, xx gm protein, xxx
mg cholesterol, xx gm carbohydrate, xxx mg sodium, x gm fiber, xx gm
fat (x gm sat, x gm mono, x gm poly), x mg iron, xx mg calcium, xx%
of calories from fat.

Brought to you by MMCONV and Sylvia Steiger, SylviaRN (at) compuserve
(dot) com (change characters as needed, this is to prevent bulk
E-mailers from capturing my address), moderator of GT Cookbook and
FringeNet Lowfat & Luscious echoes.  For breadmachine tips and mixes,
visit my homepage: http://ourworld.compuserve.com/homepages/SylviaRN

