Title: Trifle Custard Filling
Categories: Tvfn
Yield: 4 servings
1 1/3 c  Half and half
1/2 c  Granulated sugar
4    Egg yolks
1/2 c  Granulated sugar
1/4 c  Unsifted all purpose flour
1 ts Vanilla
1 ts Dark rum
1 c  (8 ounces) heavy cream
Pour the halfandhalf into a 1 1/2 quart heavybottomed saucepan, add
the 1/2 cup sugar, and stir to combine. In a 1 quart bowl whisk the
egg yolks and the remaining 1/2 cup sugar to combine. Add the flour,
and whisk to combine. Bring the halfandhalf mixture just to a boil
over medium heat. Remove, and pour half of the hot liquid over the
yolk mixture, whisking to combine. Pour the yolk mixture into
saucepan, and over medium heat bring it to a boil again, stirring
constantly. When it is thick and smooth, remove it from the heat,
pour it into a 3 quart mixing bowl to cool, and cover the surface
with plastic wrap to prevent a crust from forming on the cream. (This
bowl size is to allow room for folding in the whipped cream later.)
Pierce the plastic with the tip of a knife to let steam escape and
cool faster. Refrigerate.

Assembling the Trifle:

Split the spongecake evenly into three layers, each about 7/8-inch
thick, using a 12inch serrated knife in a sawing motion. Lift the top
two layers, one at a time, and set aside (this is easy because each
layer is spongy and thick).

Stir the vanilla and rum into the cold custard. Whip the heavy cream
in a 1 1/2 quart mixing bowl to the Chantilly stage, and fold into
the custard mixture. Place the bottom cake layer of cake in a 2 1/2
to 3 quart glass bowl, and cover it with half of the filling,
spreading evenly with a rubber spatula. Center the middle layer on
top, and cover it with the remaining filling. Center the last layer
on top. Cover the dessert with plastic wrap and refrigerate.

Spoon 1 cup of the ChocolateButter Glaze into a 1 quart bowl over a
bowl of hot tap water (120 to 130 degrees). Stir until liquid and
smooth. Spread the glaze over the top of the dessert evenly with a
metal or rubber spatula. With a 2inch paring knife, scrape the tip of
the blade firmly but gently down a bar of chocolate. If the
chocolate's surface area is cool, you will get fine flakes; if it's
slightly warm, the shapes will be very small corkscrews. Sprinkle
Chocolate Flakes around the rim of the dessert. Refrigerate for up to
1 to 2 hours before serving.

Yield: 8 servings

BAKERS' DOZEN FLO BRAKER SHOW #BD1A13

