Title: Two Way Duck
Categories: Emeril
Yield: 4 servings
1    Domestic duck, rinsed in
Cool water (about 5 1/2 to 6
Pounds)
1/2 c  Stemmed and sliced jalapenos
With seeds
12    Garlic cloves plus 1 medium
Head of garlic, cut in half
Crosswise
2 md Lemons, halved
1/2 c  Sugar
Salt
Black pepper
Cayenne
2 md Sweet potatoes, scrubbed
(about 14 ounces)
1 tb Flour
1 c  Chopped onions
1 c  Chopped celery
3 c  Chicken stock
2 tb Steen's 100 percent Pure
Cane Syrup
3 tb Chopped green onions
1 tb Chopped parsley
Remove any excess fat pieces from the cavity of the duck. Remove the
neck flap. With the duck breast side up and the cavity facing you,
make a 1 inch slit on each side of the breastbone inside the cavity.
Insert 1 slice of the jalapeno and 1 clove of garlic in each hole.
With your fingers, separate the skin from the breast meat and insert
5 pieces of jalapeno and 5 garlic cloves under the skin and push them
well along the breast. Turn the duck around so that the neck is
facing you. Slice the remaining 2 cloves garlic and put these and the
remaining jalapeno slices in the neck cavity. Put the duck in a deep
glass or plastic container. Squeeze the lemons and pour the juice
over the duck and inside the cavity. Rub the duck with the lemon
skins. In a small bowl, stir the sugar with salt, pepper, and
cayenne. Rub the duck, inside and out, with this mixture. Cover and
refrigerate for 8 hours. Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F. Remove
the duck from the container and place it on a rack in a roasting pan.
Stuff the cavity with the sweet potatoes and head of garlic. Bake for
30 minutes. Reduce the heat to 350 degrees F. and continue to bake
for 1 hour, or until the duck legs pull easily away from the body.
Carve the duck into 4 pieces. Peel and chop the sweet potatoes.
Squeeze the garlic from the skin and set aside. Pour the oil (about
1/2 cup) from the roasting pan into a large skillet and heat over
medium-high heat for about 2 minutes. Add 1 tablespoon flour and
blend with a wire whisk for 5 to 6 minutes to make a medium brown
roux, the color of peanut butter. Add 1 cup each chopped onions and
celery and cook stirring often, for 5 to 6 minutes. Add the chopped
sweet potatoes and roasted garlic. Cook, stirring occasionally, for
about 3 minutes. Add the chicken stock and bring to a boil. Reduce
the heat to medium-low and cook, stirring occasionally, until the
mixture thickens 6 to 7 minutes. Season with salt, cayenne and the
Steen's Cane Syrup. Simmer for about 3 minutes. Add the green onions
and parsley. Lay the duck pieces in the sauce and spoon it over.
Increase the heat to medium, cover, and cook for about 20 minutes.
Remove the lid and cook for 5 minutes more. To serve, place a piece
of duck in the center of each plate and spoon the sauce over the top.

Recipe from Louisiana Real and Rustic Cookbook by Emeril Lagasse;
William Morrow Publishing

Yield: 4 servings

EMERIL LIVE SHOW #EMIA76

