Title: Vegetarian Black Bean Chili
Categories: Toohot
Yield: 4 servings
2 c  Dried black beans, soaked
Overnight
6 c  Water, or more as needed
1 c  Beer
1/4 c  Olive oil
2 sm Red onions, cut into 1/4inch
Dice
1    Green pepper, cored, seeded,
And cut into 1/2inch cubes
2    Ribs celery, coarsely
Chopped
1 md Carrot, coarsely chopped
2    Zucchini, cut into 1/4inch
Dice
1    Red bell pepper, cored,
Seeded, and cut into 1/4inch
Dice
1    Yellow pepper, cored, seeded
And cut into 1/4inch dice
4 lg Cloves garlic, coarsely
Chopped
1 sm Bunch flatleaf parsley,
Leaves only coarsely chopped
3 tb White wine vinegar
2 tb Ground cumin
2 tb Paprika
1 1/2 tb Dried oregano, crumbled
1 ts Freshly ground black pepper
1 ts Dried red pepper flakes
3/4 ts Salt
8    Canned plum tomatoes, cut
Into 1inch cubes
1 c  Fresh or thawed frozen corn
Kernels
3 tb Lemon juice
Crema or sour cream, for
Garnish
1 c  Grated jack cheese, for
Garnish
4    Green onions, light and dark
Green parts only, thinly
Sliced
Drain the beans and rinse them under running water. In a large soup
pot, combine the beans and the water and bring to a boil over
mediumhigh heat, skimming any scum which rises to the surface. Add
the beer, return the liquid to a boil, then reduce the heat. Simmer
covered for 45 minutes to 1 hour, until the beans are tender but not
falling apart. Check the beans occasionally to see if they need more
water. Drain in a colander, reserving the cooking liquid.Meanwhile,
in a very large, heavy skillet with high sides, heat the olive oil
over mediumlow heat. Add the red onion, green pepper, celery, and
carrot and cook for about 8 minutes, stirring occasionally, until
softened. Add the zucchini and the red and yellow bell peppers, and
continue cooking for about 10 minutes more, or until all the
vegetables are nicely softened. Add the garlic and cook for about 2
minutes, until the aroma is released. Add 3 cups of the reserved
beancooking liquid, half of the parsley, the vinegar, and the spices.
Cover the pan and simmer for about 30 minutes, stirring occasionally.
Add the drained black beans, tomatoes, corn, tables lemon juice and
cook for 15 minutes more. Stir in the remaining parsley and serve in
heated bowls, garnishing each one with a little crema or sour cream,
grated cheese, and green onion.

Yield: 6 to 8 servings

TOO HOT TAMALES SHOW#TH6237

