Title: Vidalia Onion Pot Roast
Categories: Tvfn
Yield: 4 servings
1    Fresh beef brisket, about 4
Pounds, well trimmed
Salt and pepper to taste
2 tb Dry thyme
1 tb Dry rosemary
2 tb Olive oil
4 lg Vidalia onions (or other
Sweets), peeled and sliced
About 4 cups
1 c  Dry red wine
3    Carrots, thinly sliced,
About 1 cup
2 tb Chopped garlic
2 c  Hot beef stock lightened
With 1 cup water added
2    Celery stalks tied with
3 bay leaves into a
Bouquet garni
Preheat oven to 375 degrees.

Season the beef brisket well with salt and pepper.  Crush the thyme
and rosemary together with a mortar and pestle and rub the herb mix
into the beef, coating it evenly.  Rub the beef well with 1
tablespoon of the olive oil.  Heat a large saute pan with 1
tablespoon olive oil over medium high heat for 2 to 3 minutes until
the pan is nearly smoking. Add the beef to the hot pan and sear well
on one side until browned before turning the beef over and searing
the other side. When the beef has been well browned on both sides,
remove from the pan and set aside. Add the onions to the saute pan
and cook them until golden brown.  Add the red wine to the onions and
reduce by half.  Pour the onions into a large heavy roasting pan and
spread evenly across the bottom before putting the beef on the bed of
onions. Add the carrots, garlic, hot beef/water and celery bundle to
the beef in the roasting pan and place, uncovered, into the oven. All
the combined liquid should rise only 2/3 as high as the meat is
thick. Add additional water to maintain the braising liquid height.
Cook for 1 hour before turning the beef over. Cook the second side
uncovered for 1 hour before covering the pan with a cover or foil and
turning the oven down to 325 degrees. Continue to slowly braise the
beef brisket for 1 1/2 to 2 additional hours. Remove the pan from the
oven, discard the celery bouquet and allow the beef to rest for 20
minutes before slicing and serving with some of the onion jus.

Yield: 6 to 8 portions

MICHAEL'S PLACE SHOW#ML1A30

