Title: Waimea Fried Rice
Categories: Live
Yield: 4 servings
1 c  Long-grain brown rice
1    Stalk fresh lemongrass
1 tb Light oil
1    Jalapeno pepper, cored,
Seeded, and finely diced (1
Tablespoon)
3    Cloves garlic, peeled,
Bashed, and finely chopped
1/3 c  Red bell pepper, cut into
1/4    -inch dice
1/2 c  Celery, cut into 1/4-inch
Dice
4 ts Grated gingerroot
1 c  Chopped fresh pineapple
(1/4-inch dice)
12    Mint leaves, finely chopped
1/4 c  Loosely packed cilantro
Leaves, finely chopped
1 tb Thai fish sauce or tamari
1 ts Rice wine vinegar
1 ts Toasted sesame oil
For garnish:
6    Sprigs fresh mint
6    Sprigs cilantro
In a medium saucepan, boil the rice in 4 cups of water for 25
minutes, or until just tender.  Drain through a sieve and rinse with
cold water to wash off the starch and cool the rice.  Spread the rice
in a flat metal pan and refrigerate for at least 30 minutes. This is
a dish that cooks quite quickly from this point on, so it's important
to have all the ingredients prepared and ready at hand. Remove the
tough outside layer of the lemongrass and cut off the root end and
the dry top. Start slicing from the root end and use only the most
tender, bulb-like part of the stalk. Slice thinly and chop very fine
so the flavor will be spread throughout. You should have about 1/4
cup, chopped. Warm the oil in a large frying pan over medium-high
heat.  Saute the lemongrass, chiles, and garlic for 30 seconds to
release the aromatic oils. Add the red pepper, celery, and ginger and
stir-fry for another 30 seconds. Add the chilled rice and cook until
heated through, stirring occasionally to keep it form sticking. Add
the pineapple, mint, and cilantro to the hot rice. Sprinkle the fish
sauce, vinegar, and sesame oil over the top.  (Vegetarian Option:
Substitute tamari for the fish sauce.)  Stir to mix and serve
immediately.

Garnish with sprigs of mint and cilantro.

Yield: 6 servings

COOKING LIVE SHOW #CL8980 (Recipes courtesy of Graham Kerr, The
Gathering Place)

