Title: Walnut Crusted Goat's Cheese
Categories: Emeril
Yield: 4 servings
1 c  Roasted walnuts
1/4 c  Bread crumbs
Essence
1 lb Goat's cheese
4 tb Minced shallots
2 ts Minced garlic plus 1
Tablespoon
2 tb Chopped chives
Seasoned flour
Egg wash, (1 egg mixed with
1 ts Water)
1/4 c  Plus 1 tablespoon olive oil
4 oz Chorizo sausage, finely
Chopped
1/2 c  Minced onions
1 c  Blanched split peas
1/2 c  Peeled, seeded and chopped
Tomatoes
2 c  Veal reduction
2 ts Chopped fresh thyme
1 ts Finely chopped parsley
In a small food processor, pulse the walnuts until finely chopped.
Remove from the processor and turn into a mixing bowl.  Stir the
bread crumbs into the walnut mixture and season the mixture with
Essence. In another mixing bowl, combine the Goat's cheese, 2
tablespoons shallots, 2 teaspoons garlic and chives together.  Mix
thoroughly. Season the mixture with salt and pepper.  Form the
mixture into 2-ounce cakes, about 1 1/2 inches thick. Dredge the
cakes in the seasoned flour. Dip each cake in the egg wash, letting
the excess drip off. Dredge each cake in the walnut crust, coating
each side completely.  In a saute pan, heat 1 tablespoon of the olive
oil. Add the chorizo and render for about 2 minutes.  When the oil is
hot, add the onions and saute for 1 minute.  Stir in the remaining
shallots, garlic and the split peas.  Sauté for 1 minute. Season with
salt and pepper. Stir in the tomatoes and veal stock. Bring the
liquid to a boil and reduce to a simmer.  Simmer the mixture for 6 to
8 minutes or until the peas are tender.  Reseason if necessary. Stir
in the thyme and parsley, right at the end.  In a large saute pan,
heat the remaining olive oil. When the oil is hot, but not smoking,
pan-fry the cakes for about 2 minutes on each side, or until the
cakes are crispy.  Remove the cakes from the oil and drain on
paper-lined plate.  Season the cakes with Essence. Spoon the sauce in
the center of each plate.  Place two cakes in the center of the
sauce. Garnish with parsley.

Yield: 4 appetizer servings

EMERIL LIVE SHOW #EMIA62

