Title: Warm Terrain Of Sausage, Peppers, Polenta And Mozzarella
Categories:
Yield: 6 Appetizers
MMMMM--------------------MOLTO MARIO #MB5685-------------------------
1/2 lb Sweet sausage
2 tb Olive oil
12    Cloves garlic, peeled
1 lg Red bell peppers
1 lg Green bell peppers
1/2 lb Fresh mozzarella, cut into
3    Inch by 1/4-inch by 1/4-inch
Strips
1 ts Salt
1 ts Sugar
2 c  Polenta (cornmeal)
1/4 c  Parmigiano-Reggiano
1    Terrine mold, 12-inch long
By 4-inch wide by 4-inch
Deep
Bake sausage at 350 F for 20 minutes, then drain and crumble to
resemble rough bread crumbs. Set aside.  Core and seed bell peppers
and cut into 1/2"-wide strips.

In a medium saute pan, heat the olive oil. Gently saute the whole
garlic cloves until golden brown on all sides, about 8 to 10 minutes.
Add the peppers and saute until soft, but not browned, about 7 to 8
minutes longer. Remove from heat. Separate and let cool.

Bring the mozzarella to room temperature. Place the sausage, peppers,
garlic and mozzarella around a cutting board, all in separate bowls.

Bring 6 cups water to a boil, adding the salt and sugar. Slowly add
the cornmea to the boiling water in a thin stream, whisking
continuously. Lower heat and cook until the polenta resembles the
texture of hot cereal. Remove the pot from heat.

Moving quickly, pour the polenta into the terrine mold about 3/4-inch
from the top. Sprinkle all the crumbled sausage over the polenta.
Cover the sausage with about 1-1/2 cups warm polenta. Using a
spatula, flatten and smooth the polenta to create a flat surface.
Next, layer the peppers and the garlic cloves. Repeat with another
layer of 1-1/2 cups warm polenta over the peppers. Remember to smooth
and flatten the polenta layer to make a nice flat surface all the way
to the edges. Lay the mozzarella over the polenta (but do not bring
the mozzarella to the edges). Pour another layer of warm polenta over
the mozzarella to fill the terrine. Smooth the top layer all the way
to the edges. There may be left over polenta.

Chill the terrine overnight.

To serve, invert the terrine over a cutting board. It should come out
quite easily. Slice the terrine as you would slice bread, about
3/4-inch thick. Place the slice flat on a baking sheet. Bake for 10
to 12 minutes. Sprinkle with grated cheese and serve immediately.

Nutritional information per serving:  xx calories, xx gm protein, xxx
mg cholesterol, xx gm carbohydrate, xxx mg sodium, x gm fiber, xx gm
fat (x gm sat, x gm mono, x gm poly), x mg iron, xx mg calcium, xx%
of calories from fat.

Brought to you by MMCONV and Sylvia Steiger, SylviaRN (at) compuserve
(dot) com (change characters as needed, this is to prevent bulk
E-mailers from capturing my address), moderator of GT Cookbook and
FringeNet Lowfat & Luscious echoes.  For breadmachine tips and mixes,
visit my homepage: http://ourworld.compuserve.com/homepages/SylviaRN

