Title: Wild Mushroom Flan With A Warm Spinach Salad
Categories: Try it
Yield: 12 servings
MMMMM--------------------EMERIL LIVE #EMIA04-------------------------
2 tb Oil, olive
1 lb Wild and exotic mushrooms,
Stemmed, cleaned and sliced
1/2 c  Minced onions
1    Tablespoon, plus 1 teaspoon
Chopped garlic
1 ts Chopped thyme
1 ts Chopped parsley
8    Eggs
1 qt Heavy cream
1 c  Grated Parmigiano-Reggiano
Cheese
1/4 ts Nutmeg
Salt and pepper
6 oz Raw bacon, chopped
3 tb Balsamic vinegar
1/2 c  Julienne red onions
10 oz Spinach, cleaned and
Stemmed
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. Lightly butter 12 (4-ounce)
ramekins. In a saute pan, heat the olive oil. When the oil is hot,
add the mushrooms and saute for 2 minutes. Season the mushrooms with
salt and pepper. Add the onions and tablespoon of garlic. Saute for 1
minute. Remove from the heat, stir in the herbs and cool. In a mixing
bowl, whisk the eggs and cream together. Stir in the cheese, nutmeg,
and mushroom mixture. Spoon the mushroom/cream mixture into the
ramekins. Place the ramekins in a baking pan and fill the pan with
enough water to cover 1/2 of the ramekins. Place the pan in the oven
and bake for 50 to 55 minutes or until the flan is set. In a saute
pan, render the bacon until crispy, about 10 minutes. Turn the crispy
bacon and bacon fat into a mixing bowl. Whisk in the balsamic
vinegar. Season with salt and pepper. Toss the spinach and red onions
with the vinaigrette. To serve, run a knife around each ramekin,
invert each flan onto a plate. Mound a small amount of the spinach
salad in the center of each flan.

Nutritional information per serving:  xx calories, xx gm protein, xxx
mg cholesterol, xx gm carbohydrate, xxx mg sodium, x gm fiber, xx gm
fat (x gm sat, x gm mono, x gm poly), x mg iron, xx mg calcium, xx%
of calories from fat.

Brought to you by MMCONV and Sylvia Steiger, SylviaRN (at) compuserve
(dot) com (change characters as needed, this is to prevent bulk
E-mailers from capturing my address), moderator of GT Cookbook and
FringeNet Lowfat & Luscious echoes.  For breadmachine tips and mixes,
visit my homepage: http://ourworld.compuserve.com/homepages/SylviaRN

