Title: Wok Fried Tempura Ahi With Shoyu Mustard-Butter Sauce
Categories: Emeril
Yield: 4 servings
1 c  Peeled, seeded and diced
Tomatoes
1/4 c  Chopped green onions
1/2 c  Minced Maui Onions
2 tb Peeled, minced fresh ginger
1 tb Mirin
1 tb Rice wine vinegar
1 tb Black sesame seeds
1 1/2 ts Crushed black pepper
1 ts Hawaiian salt
1 ts Fish sauce
1 tb Dry mustard
1 1/2 tb Warm water
1 tb Plus 1 teaspoon soy sauce
1/4 c  Dry white wine
1 tb White wine vinegar
1 tb Minced shallots
2 tb Whipping cream
1 c  Flour
3/4 c  Plus 2 tablespoons ice
Water
1 lg Egg
4    Sashimi-grade ahi steaks
(approximately 3 1/2 x 2 1/2
Inches, 3 ounces
And 1/2-inch thick each)
4 tb Wasabi paste
2    Nori sheets (8 1/4 x 7 1/2),
Cut in half
Oil for frying
Soy sauce for dipping
Flour for dredging
1    Stick chilled butter, cut
Into pieces
Garnish: 1 tablespoon
Chopped parsley
In a mixing bowl, combine the first 10 ingredients together. Mix
well. In a small bowl, whisk the mustard with 1 1/2 tablespoons warm
water until a paste forms. Gradually whisk in the soy sauce. Set
aside. In a saucepan, boil the wine, vinegar, and shallot until
almost no liquid remains in the pan, about 2 minutes. Add the cream
and boil until slightly thickened, about 1 minute. Season with salt
and pepper. Set the sauce aside. In a mixing bowl, whisk the flour,
water and egg together. Season with salt and pepper. Set aside.
Season the ahi with salt. Spread the wasabi evenly over 4
nori.half-sheets. Place 1 piece of the ahi one end of each nori
sheet. Fold the nori over the ahi to cover (the ends will be
exposed). In a medium-saucepan, heat the oil. Dip 1 ahi roll in the
soy sauce and then in the flour; shaking off any excess flour. Dip
the rolls in the tempura batter and fry in the oil until the outside
is crispy and the tuna is rare inside, about 40 seconds. Remove the
ahi from the oil and drain on a paper-lined plate. Season with salt
and pepper. Repeat the remaining rolls. Bring the reduction sauce to
a simmer. Whisk in enough mustard to desired taste. Whisk in the
butter. To assemble, spoon the sauce in the center of the plate. Pile
the relish in the center of the sauce. Slice the tempura ahi and lay
them directly on top of the relish. Garnish with parsley.

Yield: 4 servings

EMERIL LIVE SHOW #EMIA09

