Title: Boudin Du Pays (Blood Pudding)
Categories: Canadian, Cajun/creol, Meat
Yield: 1 servings
5    Onions; chopped
-Salt & pepper
Cloves
Summer Savory
Coriander seeds; crashed
-to taste
2 tb Flour
2 c  Pork blood
-Salt
2 lb Pork, fresh
1    Pig's lung
1/2    Pig's heart
2    Pig necks
-Salt
"Blood pudding is one of the great delicacies of Acadian cuisine. It
used to be that every Acadian family made its own. Since the annual
slaughter came during Advent, the boudin was usually saved for the
Christmas holidays." Also part of Cajun cuisine,

Sauce a boudin When slaughtering a pig, collect the fresh blood,
immediately add salt and stir to prevent coagulation. Cut the fresh
pork, the lung, heart and neck into large pieces. Place the meat into
a large pot and add just water to cover the meat. Add the salt and 3
chopped onions. Simmer on medium heat for 3 hours. Remove the meat
from the cooking liquid and let it cool. Cut the meat into very small
pieces or grind it with a meat grinder. Add the meat to the cooking
liquid with the 2 remaining onions, pepper and spices. Bring the
liquid to a boil and slowly add the blood by pouring it through a
sieve. Stir constantly. Add the flour, mixed with a small amounts of
water. (The flour may be browned in the oven before being add to the
meat, provided that slightly more flour is used.) Simmer the mixture
on low heat for approximately 1 hour, stirring frequently. This sauce
may served later by warming in a skillet.

Boudin des Branches (Blood Pudding Sausages) To make blood pudding
sausages, prepare blood pudding sauce but do not simmer for the last
half hour. Rather, clean the small intestines of the pig, cut them
into 20 inch pieces at tie them at one end. Using a funnel or a piece
of birch bark as was the Acadian tradition, fill the intestinal
lining with the sauce until the intestine is three quarters full.
press out the air and tie the other end, leaving some space for
expansion. Put the branches (sausages) in boiling water and cook for
45 to 1 hour.

SOURCE:_A Taste of Acadie_ by Marielle Cormier-Boudreau

