Title: Cape Breton Oatcakes
Categories: Canadian, Bread
Yield: 1 servings
1/2 ts -Salt
1 c  Shortening
1/2 c  -Cold water
2 c  Flour;all purpose
2 c  Rolled oats
1 c  Brown sugar;packed
2 ts Baking powder
MMMMM----------------------SAVORY VARIATION---------------------------
1/4 ts -Salt
1/3 c  Shortening; or lard or
-bacon fat
1/4 c  -Cold water
2 c  Oatmeal; scotch type*
1 c  Flour;all purpose
2 ts Sugar, granulated
2 ts Baking powder
Anne's note: I prefer the savory version as it is closer to the
original Scottish version ; my grandmother in Nova Scotia uses
'pinhead' oatmeal, a fine grind of oatmeal sold in the Maritimes,
"Ogilivy's" is the most popular brand there. Processing the oats in a
food processor for a few seconds should help.

"If desired process the oats in a food processor for 10 seconds to
get a finer texture...The original recipe for oatcakes likely arrived
with Scottish settlers in Nova Scotia. Fine oatmeal ground in the
pioneer's gristmills, a little fat worked with fingertips, and
perhaps a touch of sugar, made a crispy baked "cake" to eat with
cheese or jam. Over the years, Cape Bretoners (and eventually all
cooks across Canada) used rolled oats and more sugar to make a
cookie-like oatcake. The Glenghorm Resort in Angonish, Nova Scotia,
prints a recipe for these regional favorites on its postcards.
Trilibys, a British version, richer and filled with a cooked date
mixture, lead to the Date Sandwich Cookies so popular in Canada over
the years."

Sweet version: Stir together flour, oats, sugar, baking powder and
salt; rub in shortening with fingertips. Mix in water with fork,
until ball forms; divide in half.
On a floured surface, roll out each half to 1/4 inch (5 mm)
thickness. Cut into 2 1/2 inch (6 squares), then into triangles. Bake
on lightly greased baking sheets in 350F oven for 15 minutes or till
lightly browned. Transfer to racks to cool. MAKES: 60

Savory Variation: (to serve with cheese) Mix 2 cups Scotch-type
oatmeal, 1 cup all-purpose flour, 2 tsp each granulated sugar and
baking powder, and 1/4 tsp salt. Work in 1/3 cup shortening, lard or
bacon fat. Add 1/4 cup cold water. Proceed as above.

SOURCE: The 1st decade chapter of _A Century of Canadian Home Cooking_

