Title: Clay Pot Shrimp with Bean Thread Noodles - Goong Ope Maw
Categories: Thai, Seafood, Pasta
Yield: 6 servings
1 tb Oyster Sauce
1 tb Chinese Rice Wine Or:
Dry Sherry
1 ts Dark Soy Sauce
1 ts Asian Sesame Oil
1 ts Sugar
1/4 ts Salt
Handful Of Cilantro Leaves
8 oz Bean Thread Noodles
2 tb Vegetable Oil
1/4 c  Cilantro Pesto (See Recipe)
1 tb Fresh Ginger, Finely Chopped
1 lb Shrimp, Peeled & Deveined
1/3 c  Coarsely Chopped Green Onion
1/4 c  Chicken Stock
2 tb Fish Sauce (Nam Pla)
MMMMM-----------------------CILANTRO PESTO----------------------------
Cilantro Roots Or Leaves
And Stems
2 tb Coarsely Chopped Garlic
1 ts Whole White Or Black
Peppercorns
2 tb Coarsely Chopped Fresh
CILANTRO PESTO:  Using a mortor and pestle or a spice grinder, crush
or grind the peppercorns to a fine powder.  Combine the pepper,
cilantro roots and garlic; work the three inngredients innto a fairly
smooth paste in the mortor or in a small blender or food processor.
If you use a blender or food processor, you may need to add a little
vegetable oil or water to ease the grinding.  Make about 1/4 cup.
For an industrial strength batch use 1 tb peppercorns, 1/2 cup
cilantro roots and 1/2 cup garlic. To store the pesto for later use,
put in a glass jar, pour a little oil onto the surface to cover it
and seal tightly.  It will keep nicely for about 1 week in the
refrigerator.

CLAY POT SHRIMP:  Place the noodles in a large bowl and add warm
water to cover.  Soak the noodles until they become limp and white,
about 15 minutes.  Drain and set aside.  You should have about 5 cups
softened noodles.  In a large clay pot or flameproof, heavy-bottomed
casserole, heat the oil over medium heat until hot, about 1 minute.
Add the pesto and stir-fry until fragrant, about 1 minute, adding a
little more oil if it sticks or burns.  Add the ginger and shrimp and
stir-fry for 1 minute. Toss in the green onion, turning the mixture
once more.  Transfer the shrimp to a plate and set aside while you
prepare the noodles and sauce. In a small bowl, combine the chicken
stock, fish sauce (Nam Pla), oyster sauce, rice wine, soy sauce,
sesame oil, sugar and salt; stir to mix well. Place the soaked
noodles in the clay pot in which you cooked the shrimp mixture.
Scrape the shrimp mixture over the noodles and pour in the chicken
stock mixture.  Toss the noodles and shrimp a little to combine them
with the sauce, then cover the pot tightly.  Place the clay pot over
medium heat and cook until the noodles are soft and clear and the
shrimp is done, about 10 minutes.  Sprinkle with the cilantro leaves
and serve at once. From: Real Thai, The Best Of Thailand's Regional
Cooking by Nancie McDermott, 1992 Chronicle Books ISBN 0-8118-0017-2.

