Title: Diet Shrimp Bisque
Categories: Seafood, Soup/stew, Low-cal/fat
Yield: 4 servings
1    Garlic clove
- peeled & minced
1 tb Tomato puree
1 1/2 c  Dry white wine
2 qt Water
1    Chicken bouillon cube
- crushed
1 pn Saffron
2 lb Fresh shrimp; -=OR=-
-Scampi, Lobster or Crayfish
1 tb Safflower; -=OR=-
-Virgin olive oil
1    Leek
- cleaned & sliced coarsely
1 sm Carrot; peeled and sliced
1    Celery stalk; sliced
2    Shallots; peeled and chopped
MMMMM------------------------HERB BOUQUET-----------------------------
6    Fresh parsley stems
-(tied in cheesecloth)
1/2 ts Thyme; and
1/2    Bay leaf, and
MMMMM-----------------------FOR THE BISQUE----------------------------
4    Basil leaves; minced
1 ts Tarragon, minced
1 tb Minced chives
Salt and pepper to taste
4 tb Cornstarch
4 tb Non-fat powdered milk
1/2 ts Cognac, Armagnac or brandy
SEPARATE THE TAIL from the shrimp and remove the meat, reserving all
shells, claws, heads and so forth. If you wish, devein the tails, then
cover and refrigerate. Coarsely chop the heads and shells, reserving 4
heads for decoration, if you have them. In a large saucepan, heat the
oil over moderate heat, then add the shrimp shells and cook them.
Stir slowly but continuously for 5 minutes. Add the vegetables and
tomato puree and cook another 5 minutes, stirring. Add the wine and
bring to the boil for 30 seconds, scraping the bottom to dissolve any
coagulated juices. Add the water, bouillon cube, saffron and herb
bouquet. Return to a simmer and cook, covered, for 1 hour. Pour the
stock through a fine strainer into a bowl, pressing down on the
vegetables and shrimp shells with a soup ladle to extract all of the
liquid. (For a finer result, strain again through cheesecloth.)
Return the stock to the boil. Moisten the cornstarch in a little cold
water, then add it to the saucepan and boil for 4 minutes. Taste for
salt and pepper. (The recipe can be prepared ahead to this point and
refrigerated.) Bring the stock to a simmer. Add the shrimp tails and
let them cook a bare 2 minutes (for small or medium), or 3 minutes
for extra large. Remove immediately with a slotted spoon and divide
them among 4 heated soup plates. Pour the stock into a blender, add
the powdered milk and cognac. Blend until smooth and homogeneous.
Pour immediately into the soup plates over the shrimp tails. Garnish
each dish with an equal amount of the herbs and a shrimp head
(optional).

This rich-tasting bisque has only 90 calories per serving.

PETER KUMP - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK

