Title: Fricasseed Chicken
Categories: Poultry, Chicken
Yield: 8 servings
1    Celery stalk; roughly sliced
4    Bay leaves
6    Sprigs fresh thyme; -=OR=-
1 ts -Dried thyme
3 tb Flour
3 c  Chicken stock
-OR low-sodium chicken broth
3 c  Milk
1/8 ts Ground nutmeg
2    Chickens, 3 1/2-to-4 lb each
- cut up, -=OR=-
8 lb -Chicken pieces
Salt
Freshly ground black pepper
3 tb Unsalted butter or margarine
2 lg Onions
- peeled and roughly diced
2 lg Carrots; coarsely chopped
PREHEAT OVEN TO 375F. Rinse the chicken pieces dry, pat dry and
sprinkle with salt and pepper. Melt the butter over low heat in a
large covered casserole dish or Dutch oven on top of the stove. Add
the chicken pieces and cook on all sides without browning, about 7
minutes. The chicken should not be crowded, so perform this operation
in batches, if necessary. Remove pieces to a plate as they are done.
When all chicken is done, add the onions, carrots, celery, bay leaves
and thyme and cook about 5 minutes. Sprinkle the flour over the
vegetables and cook, stirring for 30 seconds. Add the stock, milk and
nutmeg. Increase heat to high, cover and bring to a boil. Replace the
thighs and drumsticks, cover and place casserole in the oven for 25
minutes. Add the reserved breasts and cook for another 15 minutes.
Remove the casserole from the oven, remove the chicken pieces from
the casserole and set them aside. Strain the sauce through a fine
sieve and discard onions, carrots, celery and herbs. Keep the chicken
pieces warm in the turned-off oven while finishing the sauce. Place
strained sauce in a medium saucepan over medium heat and cook until
stewing liquid is thick enough to cling to a wooden spoon. To serve,
arrange the chicken in a serving casserole or on a deep serving
platter and ladle the sauce over it. Accompany the fricassee with
noodles or rice pilaf. Refrigerate the meat and sauce separately for
up to 3 days. Freeze the meat and sauce separately in 2 batches for
up to 3 months.

Makes 2 Batches, Serving 3 to 4 Each

MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK

