Title: Mahogany Duck
Categories: Poultry
Yield: 4 servings
2 tb Dark brown sugar, packed
-
2 sl Bread
2    Scallions
2    Parsley
3 c  Beer
Sauce:
1 3/4 c  Brown stock
2 ts Arrowroot, dissolved in
3 tb Cold water
Kumquats for garnish
2    Ducks, 4-1/2; 4-3/4 lb
Marinade:
1/4 c  Scotch
3 tb Fresh gingerroot, peeled & s
-redded
1 1/2 ts Garlic, minced
2 tb Orange zest, julienned
1 ts Coriander seeds, crushed
1 ts Black peppercorns, crushed
3/4 c  Soy sauce
2 tb Honey
Rinse ducks, pat dry, and remove excess fat from body cavities. Truss
the birds.  Arrange them, breast side up, several inches apart on a
rack set over a large roasting pan.  Let them dry, chilled but
uncovered, for 3 days. In a bowl, combine the Scotch, gingerroot,
garlic, zest, coriander, peppercorns, soy sauce, honey, and brown
sugar.  Let this mixture stand, covered and chilled, for 3 days.
Stir marinade, and press it through a fine sieve into a small bowl.
Keeping the ducks chilled, brush them with some of the marinade,
every 30 minutes, for 2-1/2 hours. Let the ducks dry at room
temperature for 30 minutes. Stuff each duck with one of the bread
slices, 1 scallion and 1 parsley sprig. Spoon remaining marinade into
the cavities.  Prick the ducks, except for the breast area, with a
fork. Pour the beer into the roasting pan. Roast the ducks on the
rack in the lower third of a preheated 350f oven for 30 minutes. Tent
birds with foil and roast for 30 minutes more. Discard foil and roast
for another 30 minutes or until a meat thermometer registers 180f.
(The skin should be very mahogany colored and crisp.) Remove stuffing
ingredients with a spoon and discard them and the pan juices. Pour
the juices from the cavities through a fine sieve into a small bowl.
Skim the fat, and reserve 1/4 cup of the juices. Arrange ducks on a
platter and keep them warm, covered loosely. In a saucepan, bring the
stock to a boil, simmer it for 15 minutes, and stir in reserved
juices.  Bring the mixture to a simmer.  Stir arrowroot mixture and
add to pan.  Cook the mixture over mod-low heat, being careful not to
boil, until thickened.  Add salt and pepper to taste. Transfer the
sauce to a heated sauceboat. Garnish the duck with kumquats and serve
with the sauce. a 1983 Gourmet Mag. favorite

