Title: Paneed Veal and Fettucini
Categories: Cajun/creol, Main dish, Meat
Yield: 6 servings
1 1/2 T  Minced fresh parsley
1 1/2 T  Olive oil
3/4 t  White pepper
1/2 t  Onion powder
1/2 t  Garlic powder
3 ea Eggs
6 ea 4 oz slices white veal (note
1 x  Vegetable oil for pan frying
4 qt Hot water
2 T  Vegetable oil
1 T  Salt
3/4 lb Fresh fettucini (1/2 lb dry)
1/2 lb Unsalted butter
2 1/2 c  Heavy cream
1/2 t  Cayenne pepper
3/4 c  + 4 tsp. Parmesan cheese
1 3/4 c  Very fine dry bread crumbs
NOTE:  You will need 6, 3-1/2 to 4 ounce slices of baby white veal,
pounded thin for this recipe.
Place the water, the 2 tablespoons oil and the salt in a large pot
over high heat; cover and bring to a boil. when water readdds a
rolling boil, add small amounts of fettucini at a time to the pot,
breaking up oil patches as you drop it in.  Return to boiling and
cook oncovered to al dente stage (about 3 minutes if fresh pasta, 7
minutes if dry); do not overcook.
during this cooking time, use a wooden or spagheti spoon to left
fettucini out of the water by spoonfruls and shake strands back into
the water. (It may be an old wives' tale, but this procedure seems to
enhance the pasta's texture.)  Then immediately drain in a colander
and stop its cooking by running cold water over strands (if you used
dry pasta, first rinse with hot water to wash off starch); after it
has cooled thoroughly, about 2 to 3 minutes, pour a liberal amount of
vegetable oil in your hands and toss fettucini.  set aside still in
the colander.    Melt the butter in a large skillet over medium-low
heat; add the cream and cayenne pepper. Turn the heat to medium-high.
with a metal whisk whip the cream nmixture constantly as it comes to
a boil.  the reduce heat and simmer until the sauce has reduced some
and thickened enough to coat a spoon well, about 7 to 8 minutes,
whisking constantly.  Remove from heat and gradually add 3/4 cup of
the parmesan, whisking until cheese is melted. Set aside.
Heat 6 large serving plates in a 250F oven. In a shallow pan (cake
and pie pans work well) combine the bread crumbs, parsley, olive oil,
white pepper, onion and garlic;, mix well. In a separate pan beat the
eggs well, then beat in the remaining 4 teaspoons Parmesan. Soak the
veal in the egg mixture for at least 5 minutes, being sure to coat it
thoroughly.
Meanwhile, heat 1/4 inch oil to about 400F in a large skillett.
Then, just before frying, dredge veal in the bread crumbs, coating
well and pressing the crumbs in with your hands; shake off any
excess. Fry the veal in the hot oil until golden brown, about 1
minute per side. Do not crowd. (Change the oil mid-way through frying
if the crumbs in the bottom start to burn.) Remove veal to a large
platter and set aside.
Reheat the cheese sauce over medium-high heat, whisking
frequently. (NOTE:  If butter starts separating from the sauce, whisk
in about 1 tablespoon cream or water.)  Add the fettucini and loss
until tho9roughly coated and heated through, about 1 minute. Remove
from heat and serve immediately.    To serve, place a piece of veal
on each heated serving plate.  roll each portion of fettucini onto a
large fork and lift onto the plate;
Top the fettucini with additional sauce from the skillet. From Paul
Prudhomme's Louisiana Kitchen

