Title: Silver Palate Roast Turkey
Categories: Poultry, Main dish, Turkey
Yield: 15 servings
1/2 lb Butter
-salt and pepper
-paprika
4 tb Corn oil
-Cornbread Sausage Stuffing
-  with Apples
20 lb Turkey
2    Oranges
1. Make the stuffing for the turkey.
2. Wash the turkey well, inspecting for pinfeathers, and chop off
the wing tips, reserving them for later use with giblets in gravy or
stock. Dry the turkey inside and out with a kitchen towel.
3. Slice oranges in half. Squeeze the juice all over the outside of
the bird and rub into the cavity to refreshen. Salt and pepper the
cavity to taste. Fill the turkey with the stuffing, not packing too
tightly. Sew up the cavity or close with small trussing skewers.
4. Rub the outside of the turkey all over with 1 1/2 sticks of
softened butter and sprinkle generously with salt, pepper and
paprika. Drape the turkey with cheesecloth.
5. Place turkey, breast side up, on a rack in a roasting pan.
6. Four to five hours before serving is scheduled, place the turkey
in a preheated 325ø oven.
7. Melt the remaining 4 tablespoons of butter with 4 tablespoons of
corn oil in a saucepan. Lift the cheesecloth from the turkey and
baste every 30 minutes, first with the butter and oil mixture and
later with the turkey's own juices.*
8. Roast for 3« to 4« hours or until the thigh juices run clear
yellow when pricked with a skewer. There should be no traces of
pinkness. The drumstick will move easily in the socket when the
turkey is done.
9. When the turkey is done, remove to a heated platter and cover
with foil. The turkey should stand 30 minutes before carving.
10. Remove stuffing into a bowl. If there is any additional from the
recipe, bake it in a covered cassarole in a 350ø oven, covered with
foil, for one half hour before serving.
11. Serve the turkey on a large platter. Be sure you have sharp
knives and a good carver among the group. Enjoy!
*For a moist bird, frequent basting is essential, so don't forget!
Baste every 30 minutes---breast and legs should be a lovely golden
color.

