Title: Vindaloo (Goan-Style Hot and Sour Pork)
Categories: Asian, Herbs/spice, Main dish
Yield: 6 servings
1 t  Brown sugar
5 T  Vegetable oil
2 ea Medium onions cut into rings
1 1/3 c  Water
2 lb Pork cut into 1" cubes
1 ea One in cube ginger chopped
8 ea Cloves garlic peeled
1 T  Ground coriander seeds
1/2 t  Turmeric
2 t  Whole cumin seeds
2 ea Hot, dried red chilies
1 t  Black pepper corns
1 t  Cardamom seeds
3 ea In stick cinnamon
1 1/2 t  Black mustard seeds
1 t  Fenugreek seeds
5 T  White wine vinegar
1 1/2 t  Salt
Grind cumin seeds,  red chilies,  peppercorns, cardamom seeds,
cinnamon, black  mustard  seeds and fenugreek seeds in a
coffee-grinder or other spice grinder. Put the ground spices in a
bowl. Add the vinegar, salt and sugar.  Mix and set aside. Heat the
oil in a wide, heavy pot over a medium flame.   Put  in  the onions.
Fry,  stirring
frequently,  until  the onions turn brown  and crisp.
Remove  the onions with a slotted spoon and put them
into  the container  of  an  electric blender or food processor.
(Turn off the heat.)   Add  2-3
tablespoons of water to the  blender  and  puree  the onions. Add
this puree to the ground spices in the bowl. (This is the vindaloo
paste. It may be made ahead of time and frozen.) Dry off the meat
cubes with a paper towel and remove large  pieces  of fat, if any.
Put the ginger and garlic into the container of an electric blender
or food processor. Add 2-3 tablespoons of water and blend until you
have a smooth paste. Heat the oil remaining in the pot once again
over a medium-high flame. When hot, put in the pork cubes, a few at a
time, and brown them lightly on all
sides.   Remove each batch with a slotted spoon and keep in a bowl.
Do all the pork this way.   Now put the ginger-garlic paste into the
same pot. Turn down the heat to medium. Stir the paste for a few
seconds. Add the coriander and turmeric.  Stir for another few
seconds. Add the meat, any juices that may have accumulated as well
as the vindaloo paste and the water.  Bring to a boil.  Cover and
simmer gently for an hour or until port is tender.   Stir a few times
during this cooking period. Serve with rice.

