Title: TOASTED PECAN SOUP
Categories: Soup, Dessert
Yield: 4 Servings    2 1/4 c  shelled pecans
2 TB unsalted butter
1/4 c  chopped shallot
1 c  leek -- chopped
white portion only
:
1/2 c  chopped fennel bulb -- or
celery
:
1/4 c  light brown sugar -- packed
1 ts ground cinnamon
1 TB chopped fresh thyme
1    bay leaf
6 c  chicken broth -- low salt
canned
Salt
Freshly ground white pepper
:
:
:
3/4 c  whipping cream
1 TB Worcestershire sauce
2 TB bourbon -- or sherry

Spread the pecans in an ovenproof pan and toast in the oven, stirring
frequently, until lightly browned and fragrant, about 15 minutes. Chop
coarsely and set aside.

In a soup pot, melt the butter over low heat. Add the shallot, leek,
and fennel or celery and cook, stirring frequently, until tender,
about 10 minutes.

Add 2 cups of the toasted pecans (reserve the rest for garnish), brown
sugar, cinnamon, thyme, and bay leaf and cook, stirring frequently,
for about 5 minutes. Stir in the broth and bring almost to a boil
over medium heat. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Reduce the
heat to low and simmer, uncovered, until the pecans are very tender,
about 2 hours. Discard the bay leaf.

Working in batches, if necessary, transfer the soup to a food
processor or blender and puree until smooth.

Pour the soup into a clean pot and bring to a boil over high heat.
Reduce the heat to low, stir in the cream, Worcestershire, and
bourbon or sherry and simmer until the alcohol isevaporated about 2
minutes.

To serve hot, ladle into preheated soup bowls and garnish with the
reserved toasted pecans. Alternatively, pour into a container and
refrigerate, uncovered, until cool, then tightly cover and store for
up to 3 days. Slowly reheat before garnishing and serving; do not
boil.

To serve cold, pour into a container and refrigerate, uncovered, until
cool, then tightly cover and chill for at least 2 hours or as long as
3 days. Remove from the refrigerator about 25 minutes before serving.
Ladle into chilled bowls and garnish.

Serves 6 to 8 as a soup course, or 3 or 4 as a main dish.

[mc-recipe: patH 01 Oct 96]

: James McNair's Soups (c) 1990 SF: Chronicle
Recipe By

From: Path <phannema@wizard.Ucr.Edu>  Date: Mon, 14 Oct 1996 20:59:20
~0700 (

