Title: TORTELLI DI ZUCCA (PUMPKIN TORTELLI) L A TIME
Categories: Italian, Pasta
Yield: 8 Servings
1 3/4 lb Yellow pumpkin or
- Hubbard squash (or Acorn)
1/4 lb Mostarda di Cremona (fruit
-pickled in mustard),
-finely chopped
2 oz Amaretti cookies, finely
- ground
Parmigiano-Reggiano cheese
Nutmeg
Salt, pepper
1/2 to 1 tsp. dried mustard,
- optional
2 tb Bread crumbs, optional
2 1/4 c  All-purpose flour
3    Eggs, beaten well
1/4 c  Unsalted butter
Typed by Manny Rothstein
(This recipe is from Dal Pescatore, just north of Parma,
Italy,"considered by many to be the best restaurant in the entire
country" sez the Times, so it must be true.)MR

This filling takes some adjusting to resemble the stuff the Santinis
brought from home. Their Mostarda, which they make themselves every
year, had a mustard-y bite that nearly brought tears to our eyes. The
stuff we bought here, in an Italian specialty store, was much
sweeter, so we added a bit of dried mustard to crank up the heat.
Also, since we could find neither yellow pumpkin nor Hubbbard squash
on the day we shopped for testing materials, we used acorn squash. It
worked fairly well but required some additional bread crumbs to
become firm enough to hold together properly. When it's done, the
flavors are explosive and almost medieval, combining sweet squash
with mustard-y hot mostarda and rich cheese and butter.
Prepare filling up to 2 days in advance, but definitely before
pasta is rolled out. Cut pumpkin or squash in sections, remove seeds.
In pan bake at 350 degrees until tender. Pass through food mill into
large bowl. Add Mostarda, amaretti, 2 tb cheese and dash of ground
nutmeg. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Mix well and taste.
Filling should have definite mustard-heat. If not, add up to 1 ts
dried mustard. Filling should also be fairly firm and loosly hold
together when formed in ball. If not, add up to 2 tb bread crumbs.
In bowl mix flour and eggs. Knead into smooth ball and wrap in
plastic wrap. Set aside at least 1/2 hour. Devide in quarters and
work with 1 portion at a time, keeping rest tightly wrapped in
plastic wrap. Knead and roll out on pasta machine to next-to-thinnest
setting. Cut into long strip and cut strip at 2-inch intervals into
squares.
Place ball of stuffing slightly smaller than walnut in center of
each rectangle. Diagonally fold over 1 corner of rectangle to meet
opposite corner. Press to seal. Fold base of triangle over to form
"paper hat" shape and prell sides to seal. Set aside on floured
kitchen towel and repeat until all dough is used up.
Sprinkle heated serving dish with 1 1/2 tb cheese. Melt butter in
saucepan. Cook tortelli in abundant boiling, salted water 4 to 5
minutes, until pasta is cooked. Remove with slotted spoon, working
carefully to avoid breaking pasta. Place tortelli over cheese in
serving dish. Sprinkle with another 1 1/2 tb cheese. Pour melted
butter over. Toss gently. Makes 8 servings.

Each serving contains about: 274 calories; 115 mg sodium; 105 mg
cholesterol; 11 grams fat; 37 grams carbs.; 8 grams protein; 1.44
grams fiber.

(MR notes: Ratio of egg to flour may need to be juggled to get right
texture, depending on flour used. If filling needs more heat, consider
using Japanese horseradish.) L A Times, 3/17/94.

