Title: TOURTE MILANESE
Categories: Appetizers
Yield: 8 Servings
1 lb Puff pastry
1 tb Oil
1 tb Butter
1 lb Fresh spinach*
2    Garlic cloves; minced
1/4 ts Nutmeg (or more)
Salt & freshly ground pepper
2    Lg red peppers*
MMMMM--------------------------OMELETS-------------------------------
5    Eggs
2 ts Chopped chives
2 ts Chopped parsley
1 ts Chopped fresh tarragon*
Salt
2 tb Butter
8 oz Swiss cheese, thinly sliced
8 oz Ham, thinly sliced
1    Egg; beaten
*Note: Spinach should be blanched first, then well drained. Red
peppers
should be cut into 1" pieces and blanched.

Lightly grease 8-inch springform pan.  Roll out 3/4 pastry 1/4" thick
and line bottom and sides of pan. Keep remaining pastry refrigerated.
Heat oil and butter in large skillet. Add spinach and garlic and
saute' 2 to 3 minutes. Season to taste with nutmeg, salt and pepper.
Remove from skillet. Add red peppers to skillet and saute' briefly.
Remove from heat and set aside.

For omelets:  Lightly beat eggs, herbs and salt to taste. In 7- to
8-inch skillet over medium heat, add 1 tablespoon butter and shake so
butter coats bottom evenly. Pour in 1/2 egg mixture and stir briefly.
As eggs start to set, lift edges so liquid can run under. When eggs
are completely set, and top of omelet is no longer moist, shake pan
and slide omelet onto warm plate. Repeat with remaining butter and
egg mixture.

To assemble: Position rack in lower 1/3 of oven and preheat to 350
degrees. Layer ingredients in prepared pan in following order: 1
omelet, 1/2 spinach, 1/2 cheese, 1/2 ham, and all red peppers. Repeat
layering in reverse order, using remaining ingredients.  Roll
remaining pastry 1/4" thick.  Cut out 8-inch circle. Place over
omelet and seal well to pastry lining by pinching with fingers. With
tip of knife, draw number of slices desired directly on pastry, or
decorate with scraps of pastry. Brush with beaten egg.  Place pan on
baking sheet and bake until golden brown, about 70 to 75 minutes.
Cool slightly. Release from pan and serve tourte warm, slicing with
sharp, thin knife.

From: Bon Appetit, RSVP column. Michel Richard restaurant, Los
Angeles, Calif.

