Title: TRADITIONAL LASAGNE
Categories: Italian, Pasta
Yield: 4 Servings
2/3    Recipe Egg Pasta or use 2
-eggs and 1 1/3 cups flour
OR 1/2 Lb dry lasagne
-noodles
BOLOGNESE SAUCE
1    Onion
1/2    Carrot
1/2    Rib celery
1    Clove garlic
2 tb Butter
1/2 lb Lean pork, ground
1/3 c  Dry white wine
1/3 c  Heavy cream
1/8 ts Nutmeg, grated
6    Fresh Italian plum tomatoes
-(or 1 cup canned)
Salt
Pepper
BECHAMEL SAUCE
3 tb Butter
1/4 c  Flour
2 c  Milk
Salt
Pepper
3/4 c  Parmesan cheese, grated
PREPARATION:  Make the Egg Pasta dough.  Roll as thin as possible and
cut into 2-inch wide stripe or approximately 4-inch squares. Grate
the Parmesan cheese. For The Bolognese Sauce, dice the onion, carrot,
and celery. Mince the garlic. Melt butter in saucepan over medium
heat; add the pork and cook until it just loses its pink color, about
3 minutes. Add onion, carrot, and celery; cook until tender, about 5
minutes. Add garlic; cook 1 minute. Add wine, stirring with wooden
spoon to deglaze pan; simmer until reduced by 1/2, about 15 minutes.
Add heavy cream and nutmeg; simmer until thickened, about 5 minutes.
Stir in tomatoes and their juice, breaking up with a wooden spoon.
Cover and simmer over low heat, stirring occasionally, for 2 hours.
Season with salt and pepper. For The Bechamel Sauce, melt butter on
low heat in a saucepan. Whisk in the flour and cook 1 minute.
Gradually whisk in the milk and bring to a boil, stirring constantly.
Reduce heat; season with salt and pepper. Simmer for 20 minutes. Cook
the pasta in a large pot of boiling, salted water until tender, about
3 minutes for fresh pasta.  Drain and refresh under cold water. Pour
a thin layer of Bolognese Sauce into bottom of baking dish. Arrange a
layer of pasta on top. Pour 1/3 of the Bolognese and then 1/3 of the
Bechamel over pasta. Sprinkle 1/4 cup Parmesan cheese. Repeat for 2
more layers, ending with the Parmesan cheese. NOTE:  Lasagne can be
made to this point a day ahead (OR can be frozen). COOKING AND
SERVING: Heat oven to 400F. Loosely cover lasagne with foil and bake
until warmed through, about 20 minutes. Remove foil and put lasagne
under broiler until golden brown, about 5 minutes. Let lasagne sit
for 10 minutes before serving.

Makes 4 servings.

[COOKS  March-April 1988]

