Title: TRIPLE CHOCOLOATE BISCOTTI
Categories: Cookies, Desserts
Yield: 48 Servings
1 3/4 c  Hazelnuts -- (9 oz)
2 2/3 c  Flour, unbleached -- (10.5
Oz)
1 c  Cocoa, dutch-process -- (3.5
Oz)
1 1/2 ts Baking soda
1/4 ts Salt
2 c  Sugar
1 1/2 tb Dark roasted coffee (or
Instant espesso) -- finely
Ground
2/3 c  Chocolate chips -- (4 oz)
5 lg Eggs
1 1/2 ts Vanilla extract
12 oz White chocolate
I've used walnuts every time I've made these.

Heat the oven to 325.  Toast the hazelnuts on baking sheet for 10 to
15 minutes, until they emit a nutty aroma but haven't turned dark
brown inside.   If they still have skins, cover the nuts with a
dishtowel or paper towels for a few minutes after you take them out
of the oven and then rub the nuts with thetowel to remove the skins.
Set aside to cool.

Put the flour, cocoa, baking soda, salt, sugar, and coffee into the
bowl of an electric mixer fitted with a paddle. Combine these
ingredients on a medium-low speed and then toss in the nuts and
chocolate chips. In a separate bowl, lightly whisk together the eggs
and vanilla extact. With the mixer running on low speed, slowly add
the egg mixture to the mixing bowl until the dough comes together.
Remove the bowl from the mixer and mix in any remaining dry
ingredients from the bottom by hand.

Divide the dough into four equal parts.  With floured hands, roll
each part into a log about 10 inches long and 2 inches in diameter.
Place the logs 4 inches apart on greased or parchment lined baking
sheets.

Bake the logs at 325 for 30 to 35 minutes, until the sides are firm,
the tops are cracked and the dough inside no longer looks wet. Remove
the baking sheets from the oven and reduce the temparature to 300.
Let the logs cool on the baking sheet for at least 10 minutes before
slicing the logs on a slight diagonal into 3/4 inch slices. Place the
biscotti flat on the baking sheet and dry them in the oven for about
25 minutes, until the biscotti offer resistance when pressed.
Transfer the biscotti to a rack to cool.

While the biscotti are cooling, chop the white chocolate and melt ina
microwave on low power or in a double boiler. With a knife, spread
white chocolate on one cut side of each cooked biscotti. Put the
biscotti, white-chocolate side down, on a parchment-lined baking
sheet. Allow the chocolate to harden. Peel the biscotti from the
parchment and store in an airtight container.

: Emily Luchetti, fine Cooking October/November 1994
Recipe By

Date:
From:

