Title: TRIPLE CHOCOLATE TERRINE
Categories: Desserts, Chocolate
Yield: 16 Servings
3 c  Heavy or whipping cream
7 oz Good quality bittersweet
-chocolate, 1-in pieces
6 oz Good-quality milk chocolate,
-1-inch pieces
4 oz Good-quality white
-chocolate, 1-inch pieces
1/2    Vanilla bean
2 c  Chocolate Fudge Sauce
per serving:
Calories
grams per serving:
Approx. Cook Time: Cholesterol per serving: Marks:
:

*DIRECTIONS  +++*

1.  Heat the cream almost to a simmer in a heavy medium-size saucepan.
Remove the cream from the bowl, and divide it among three mixing
bowls in these amounts: 1-1/4 c, 1 c., 3/4 c.

2.  Stir the bittersweet chocolate into the 1-3/4 c. cream, whisking
until smooth.  Stir the milk chocolate into the 1 c. cream, whisking
until smooth.  Stir the white chocolate into the 3/4 c. cream, and
add the seeds from the vanilla bean; stir until smooth.  Cover the
three bowls loosely and refrigerate until the mixtures are thick but
still pourable, 3 hours.

3.  Line a 8-1/2 x 4-1/2 in. loaf pan with aluminum foil. Leave some
foil above the edge of the pain.

4.  Transfer the white chocolate mixture to a mixer bowl, and beat
until it forms soft peaks--be careful not to overbeat it. Beat the
last two or three strokes by hand; the mixture should be thick and
firm. Scrape it into the prepared pan, smooth the top, and chill it
in the freezer for 5 minutes.

5.  Repeat the beating process with the milk chocolate mixture and
spread it over the white chocolate mixture in the loaf pan. Smooth
the top, and freeze for 5 minutes.

6.  Repeat again with the bittersweet chocolate. Spread it over the
milk chocolate mixture, smooth the top, and cover with plastic wrap.
Refrigerate until firm, 3 hours.

7.  Lift up the foil to unmold the terrine.  Remove the foil and cut
the terrine into 1/2-in. thick slices. Spoon a pool of chocolate
sauce onto each plate, and arrange a slice on top. Let stand 5
minutes before serving.

Source:  "The New Basics Cookbook," Julee Rosso & Sheila Lukins

