Title: TRIPLE CHOCOLATE MOUSSE CAKE
Categories: Cakes
Yield: 10 Servings
MMMMM-------------------DARK CHOCOLATE MOUSSE------------------------
2 tb Strongly brewed coffee, cool
2 ts Vanilla extract
1 1/2 ts Unflavored powdered gelatin
3 lg Egg yolks
1 1/4 c  Heavy cream, divided
3/4 c  Milk
1/4 c  Granulated sugar
6 oz Bittersweet chocolate,
-finely chopped
MMMMM-------------------MILK CHOCOLATE MOUSSE------------------------
2 tb Strongly brewed coffee, cool
2 ts Vanilla extract
1 1/2 ts Unflavored powdered gelatin
3 lg Egg yolks
1 1/4 c  Heavy cream, divided
3/4 c  Milk
2 tb Granulated sugar
6 oz Milk chocolate, chop fine
MMMMM-------------------WHITE CHOCOLATE MOUSSE------------------------
2 tb Coconut rum, such as Malibu
1 tb Water
2 ts Vanilla extract
2 ts Unflavored powdered gelatin
8 oz White chocolate,
-coarsely chopped
3/4 c  Milk
1 c  Heavy cream
Make the dark chocolate mousse layer: Place the coffee and vanilla in
a small cup. Sprinkle the gelatin over the mixture and let the
gelatin soften for 5 minutes. In a medium bowl, whisk the yolks until
blended. In a heavy, medium saucepan, combine 3/4 cup of the cream,
the milk and sugar. Cook over medium heat, stirring occasionally,
until small bubbles form around the side of the pan. Remove the pan
from the heat. Gradually whisk about 3/4 cup of the hot cream mixture
into the yolks until blended. Pour this mixture back into the
saucepan. Continue cooking over medium-low heat, stirring constantly
with a wooden spoon for 2 to 4 minutes, until the custard has
thickened slightly. It is done when you can run your finger down the
back of the coated spoon and a path remains in the custard for
several seconds. Do not allow the custard to boil. Remove the pan
from the heat and immediately strain the custard into a stainless
steel bowl. Add the softened gelatin mixture to the custard and stir
until completely dissolved. Add the chocolate and stir until melted
and smooth. Set the bowl over a larger bowl containing ice water and
stir for 5 to 10 minutes, until cool. Remove the bowl from the bowl
of ice water. In a chilled medium bowl, using a handheld electric
mixer, beat the remaining 1/2 cup of the cream until soft peaks start
to form. Using a rubber spatula, fold one third of the whipped cream
into the chocolate mixture. Fold in the remaining whipped cream.
Scrape the mousse into a 9-by-3-inch springform pan and, using a
small offset metal cake spatula, smooth it into an even layer. Place
the pan in the freezer for 1 hour, until the mousse is firmly set.

Make the milk chocolate mousse layer: Follow the procedure in the
steps above, substituting the ingredients listed for the milk
chocolate mousse layer for those in the dark chocolate mousse layer,
and pouring the milk chocolate mousse over the dark chocolate mousse
layer in the pan. Place the pan in the freezer for 1 hour, until the
mousse is firmly set.

Make the white chocolate mousse layer: Place the rum, water and
vanilla in a small, heatproof cup. Sprinkle the gelatin over the
mixture and allow it to soften for 5 minutes. Place the cup with the
softened gelatin in a small pan with enough water to come halfway up
the sides of the cup. Heat the gelatin mixture in hot, not simmering,
water. Stir the gelatin frequently for 3 to 5 minutes, or until the
gelatin granules dissolve completely and the mixture is clear. Remove
the pan from the heat, leaving the cup in the water to keep the
gelatin mixture warm until ready to use. Place the chocolate in a
large bowl. In a small saucepan over medium heat, bring the milk to a
gentle boil. Pour the hot milk over the chocolate and let the mixture
stand for 30 seconds to melt the chocolate. Add the warm gelatin
mixture and whisk until smooth. Place the bowl over a larger bowl of
ice water and stir for 5 to 10 minutes, or until the mixture is cool.
In a chilled, medium bowl, using a handheld electric mixer, beat the
cream at medium speed just until it begins to form soft mounds. Do
not overbeat or the mousse will be grainy. Fold one-third of the
whipped cream into the white chocolate mixture. Fold in the remaining
whipped cream. Scrape the white chocolate mousse onto the milk
chocolate mousse layer, smoothing the top with a cake spatula. Place
the cake in the freezer for 2 hours, until the top layer is firmly
set.

Unmold the cake: Using a portable hair dryer or a damp, hot towel,
carefully heat the outside of the springform pan slightly. Release the
clamp on the side of the springform pan and gently remove it. Using a
large metal spatula, gently transfer the cake from the bottom of the
springform pan to a serving platter. Place the cake in the
refrigerator for at least 1 hour before serving.

from the Chocolatier Recipe Collection on the WorldWideWeb

