Title: TROUT WITH HERB BUTTER SAUCE
Categories: Fish, Main dish
Yield: 4 Servings
1 sm Carrot
1 sm Rib celery
1/2    Yellow onion
1 ts Dried thyme
1 lg Sprig fresh parsley
3 c  Water
1/2 c  White wine
1 1/2 ts Salt
MMMMM---------------------HERB BUTTER SAUCE--------------------------
2 tb Minced fresh chives
2 tb Minced fresh parsley
1/2 ts Tarragon
1/4 c  Court Bouillon
1/4 c  White wine
1 ts White-wine vinegar
6 tb Butter
1 ts Lemon juice
Salt and pepper
4    Trout fillets, unskinned
MMMMM-----------------------COURT BOUILLON----------------------------
-OR- salmon-trout fillets
Court Bouillon:  Peel the carrot and cut into thin slices. Cut celery
and onion into thin slices.  In a non-reactive pot, combine all of the
ingredients; bring to a simmer, cover, and cook for 20 minutes. You
should have about 3 cups.  Court Bouillon can be made several days
ahead, or it can be frozen.

COOKING AND SERVING: Bring Court Bouillon to a simmer. Put the
fillets, skin side down, into the simmering liquid, lower heat, and
poach gently until fish is just cooked through, about 5 minutes.
Remove fish from the liquid, peel off the skin, and cover to keep
warm. Strain the Court Bouillon and put 1/4 cup into a small
saucepan. Reserve remaining bouillon for another use. Add wine and
vinegar to the saucepan and bring to a boil; boil about 3 minutes
until liquid is reduced to 2 tbs. Over the lowest possible heat,
whisk in the butter a bit at a time. The butter should soften to make
a creamy sauce but should not melt completely. Stir in the chives,
parsley, tarragon, and lemon juice. Season to taste with salt and
pepper. Serve the fish topped with the sauce.

Yield: 4 servings.

NOTE:  The Herb Butter Sauce here is a variation of the traditional
French beurre blanc.  The sauce is rich and powerful, yet also subtle
enough so that it won't overpower the delicate taste of the poached
fish. The trick to making this sauce is to emulsify the butter
without melting it, so that the sauce is creamy. The acid in the wine
and vinegar aid in the emulsification.  Whisk in the butter, a tbs at
a time, over the lowest possible heat, moving on and off the heat as
necessary.

