Title: TUNA STEAKS WITH BASIL SAUCE
Categories: Fish, Main dish, Low-fat
Yield: 6 Servings
1 c  Plain nonfat yogurt
1/3 c  Packed fresh basil leaves
1/4 c  Blanced garlic puree*
Salt and pepper
12 sm Red new potatoes
1/3 oz Dried porcini mushrooms
1/2 ts Fennel seeds
1/2 ts Black peppercorns
6    5-oz. tuna steaks, 1" thick
Vegetable oil spray
2 lb Fresh spinach, stems removed
1 pt Cherry tomatoes, halved
*could use roasted garlic puree instead ~Spoon yogurt into a strainer
lined with a paper coffee filter or cheesecloth. Set the strainer
over a small bowl and refrigerate until most of the liquid has
drained off the yogurt, about 3 hours. ~In a mini-processor or
blender, combine 1/3 c basil leaves, blanched garlic puree and
drained yogurt - season with salt and pepper. Puree the sauce until
smooth. Transfer to a bowl. (This sauce can be made up to 8 hours
ahead and refrigerated - bring to room temp before using) ~In a
steamer basket set over a pan of simmering water, cook the potatoes
until tender, about 17 mintues.  Let cool sloghtly; cut into quarters.
~Meanwhile, in a spice grinder or mortar, gring the dired porcini,
fennel seeds and peppercorns to a fine powder.  Pat the tuna steaks
dry and season both sides with salt.  Sprinkle the porcini powder all
over the tuna, pressing it into the surface. ~Lightly coat a large
nonstick skillet with vegetable spray and heat.  Add the tuna steaks
and cook over high heat until browned on the bottom, 2 to 3 minutes.
Lightly coat the top of the tuna with vegetable spray, then turn and
cook until browned outside but still rare in the center, about 3
minutes longer. Transfer the tuna to a cutting board and cut into 1/2
inch slices. Wipe out skillet and set over high heat.  Add the
spinach,season with salt and pepper and cook just until wilted.  Add
the tomatoes and stir until heated through. Mound spinach on plates.
Arrange tuna and potatoes around the spinach and drizzle about 2
tablespoons of the basil sauce. Garnish with the chopped basil and
serve at once. Reprinted from Food and Wine - June 1996.

