Title: TURKEY & PINTO BEAN CHILI
Categories: Poultry, Lentils, Hot, Low-fat, Tex-mex
Yield: 6 Servings
MMMMM------------------------NORMA WRENN-----------------------------
1 c  Dried pinto beans (5 oz)
-picked over and rinsed
2 lg Ancho chiles
1 lg Guajillo chile
1/4 c  + 2 T olive oil
2 1/2 lb Skinless, boneless turkey
Leg meat-3 two-lb whole legs
-cut into 3/4" cubes
Salt/freshly ground pepper
1 md Onion; finely chopped
4    Garlic cloves; minced
1 tb Ground cumin
2 ts Madras curry powder
2 ts Fresh thyme; coarsely chop
<OR>
1 ts Dried thyme
1/2 ts Cinnamon
pn Ground nutmeg
1 qt Chicken stock or canned low
Sodium broth
1 lg Tomato; peeled; seeded
-coarsely chopped <OR>
1 c  Canned Italian peeled
Tomatoes; drained; coarsely
-chopped
6 oz Tomato paste
1 tb Sugar
2    Bay leaves
1 lg Green bell pepper; cut
-in 3/4" dice
1 lg Yellow or red bell pepper
-cut into 3/4-inch dice
1/2 c  Fresh cilantro; finely chop
1 sm Red onion; finely chop
Cornbread for serving
Place the pinto beans in a medium saucepan and add 6 cups of water.
Bring to a boil over moderately high heat and boil for 3 minutes.
Remove from the heat and let stand for 1 hour.

In a medium bowl, soak the ancho and guajillo chiles in 3 cups of hot
water until softened, about 20 minutes. Pour off the soaking liquid,
reserving 1-1/2 cups. Stem and seed the chilies and transfer them to
a food processor or blender with the reserved soaking liquid. Puree
until smooth. Pass the puree through a fine strainer into a small
bowl.

Heat 3 tablespoons of the oil in a large enameled cast-iron casserole.
Season the turkey with salt and pepper. Add some of the meat to the
casserole in a single layer and cook over moderately high heat until
well browned all over, about 4 minutes.  Transfer the cooked turkey
to a large plate and brown the remaining meat in batches.

Heat 1 more tablespoon of the olive oil in the casserole. Add the
onion and garlic and cook over moderate heat, stirring occasionally,
until translucent, about 3 minutes.  Add the cumin, curry, thyme,
cinnamon and nutmeg and cook, stirring, until fragrant, 1 to 2
minutes. Add the chicken stock and bring to a boil over moderately
high heat. Boil until reduced by 1/4, about 6 minutes.

Return the turkey to the casserole and add the pureed chiles, chopped
tomato, tomato paste, sugar and bay leave. Bring to a boil over
moderately high heat. Lower the theat and simmer until the turkey is
tender, about 1 hour.  Discard the bay leaves.

Meanwhile, drain the pinto beans and return them to the pan. Add 6
more cups of water and bring to a boil over moderately high heat.
Lower the heat, cover partially and simmer until tender, about 1
hour. Drain the beans and add them to the chili.

Heat the remaining 2 tablespoons olive oil in a large skillet until
almost smoking.  Add the green and yellow bell peppers and cook over
moderately high heat, stirring, until browned, about 3 minutes.
Transfer to paper towels to drain, then stir them into the chili.

Stir in half the cilantro into the chili and season with salt. Spoon
the chili into bowls.  Garnish with the red onion and the remaiing
cilantro and serve with corn bread.

Source:  Food & Wine 3/94

