Title: TUSCAN VEGETABLE & BREAD SOUP
Categories: Soups, Poultry, Italian
Yield: 6 Servings
5 c  Chicken stock
1 lb Chicken breasts, skinned
2    Bay leaves
3 tb Olive oil
1    Onion, chopped
2    Garlic clove; minced
2    Carrots, diced
2    Celery stalk; diced
1    Sweet green pepper, diced
2 c  Cabbage; chopped
1 ts Dried thyme
1 ts Dried rosemary
19 oz Tomatoes, coarsely chopped,
-undrained
1/4 ts Pepper
10 oz Spinach, frozen; chopped
1/2 c  Parsley, fresh; chopped
1 sm Zucchini; thinly sliced
19 oz White kidney beans, drained
-& rinsed(red would do also)
8 sl French or Italian bread,
-stale
1 c  Parmesan cheese
In large saucepan, bring chicken stock, chicken breasts and bay
leaves to boil; reduce heat, cover and simmer for about 20 minutes or
until chicken is no longer pink inside. Remove c#icken and discard
the bones. Dice meat and set aside.  Discard bay leaves. Keep stock
warm.

Meanwhile, in large skillet, heat 2 tbsp. of the oil over medium
heat; cook chopped onion, garlic, diced carrots and celery for 10
minutes, stirring occasionally.  Add remaining oil, diced green
pepper, chopped cabbage, thyme and rosemary; cook over low heat,
stirring occasionally for 10 minutes.

Add vegetable mixture to stock in saucepan along with tomatoes and
pepper; bring to boil.  Reduce heat, cover and simmer for 30 minutes.
Add spinach, parsley, zucchini, kidney beans and reserved diced
chicken; cook for 5 minutes.  Remove 1 cup soup and set aside.

Ladle half of the remaining soup into 24-cup Dutch oven or casserole;
cover with 4 of the bread slices and 1/2 cup of the parmesan cheese.
Cover with remaining soup; layer with remaining bread. Drizzle
reserved soup over top; sprinkle with remaining parmesan cheese.
(Recipe can be prepared to this point, cooled, covered and
refrigerated for up to 24 hours.) Bake, covered in 350 F. oven for 20
minutes (45 minutes if refrigerated); uncover and bake for 20 minutes
longer (45 minutes if refrigerated) or until hot.

Garnish: ladle soup into large warmed bowls; garnish with drizzle of
olive oil and sprinkle of freshly grated Parmesan cheese.

From: Susan Macnab <macnab@ug.cs.dal.ca> Submitted
By WARING@IMA.INFOMAIL.COM (SAM WARING)  On   TUE, 27 JUN 1995 163531
GMT

