Title: TWO METHODS TO CURE OLIVES - COUNTRY LIVING
Categories: Info
Yield: 1 Info
No ingredients
To salt cure ripe olives:  Use small unbruised black or purplish-black
olives.  Cover bottom of clean slatted wooden box (such as a fruit
lug or a flat rectangular basket with a double layer of cheesecloth.
Rinse olives in cold water and put a layer on bottom of box. Cover
damp olives with a layer of uniodized or pickling salt. (For each
pound of olives, you'll need at least a pound of salt for the
monthlong process.) Repeat layering olives and salt, then cover the
entire batch with a final layer of salt and another piece of cloth.
Set box into a tray or cardboard box so that the liquid that seeps
out will not stain the countertop or floor; store in cool basement or
garge and let stand one week. After a week, uncover and transfer
olives and salt to another container. Re-layer olives with additional
salt in the same cloth-lined box for about three to four days. Repeat
layering and salting olives every four days for one month, using new
salt each time, until olives are wrinkled and lose enough bitterness
to be edible.  (If any mold appears on the olives, rinse mold off
with cold water and soak olives in bowl of distilled white vinegar
for one hour, then return to salt. Otherwise, there is no need to
rinse the olives in water before returning them to the salt cure.) In
batches, remove cured olives from salt; place them in a large
strainer or a colander. Dip strainer or colander into saucepan of
boiling water for a few seconds. Drain blanched olives and rinse with
cold tap water. (Repeat this step with remaining olives, changing
boiling water whenever it gets too salty-after about every 12th dip.)
Spread olives out on paper towels to dry for a few hours or
overnight.  Place olives in jars and cover with olive oil. If
desired, mix in herbs, hot peppers, garlic, vinegar, or grated orange
or lemon rind. Store sealed jars in the refrigerator.  The olives
will keep for at least one month.  Dry-cured olives may also stored
in new salt in airtight containers for up to six months in the
refrigerator. Before using salt-stored olives, rinse and dry the
fruits.

To brine cure green or ripe olives:  Use mature fully colored green or
dark-red to purplish-black olives. The ripe olives may fade in color
during curing but they will darken again when exposed to air. With
small knife, slash each olive to its pit three times. Rinse in water.
Place rinsed and drained olives in one-quart glass jars, filling them
3/4 full. Cover the olives with a brine containing 3/4 cup uniodized
or pickling salt dissolved in a gallon of water. Insert a small,
sealed food-storage bag filled with 1/4 cup water into each jar to
keep olives immersed in brine. Screw on the lid loosely and
refrigerate. After one week, replace the brine with a mixture of 1
2/3 cups salt per gallon of water. After 15 days replace the brine
with another mixture of 1 2/3 cups salt per gallon of water. Replace
the brine at 1-month intervals for additional two to three months. If
you keep the olives airtight in brine, you can store them for at
least one year.  You can eat these olives within two months if you
like fairly-bitter olives. Use them for cooking or season them for
appetizers. To rduce their saltiness, soak the olives in fresh water
three days. Store any uneaten desalted olives in the refrigerator in
a solution of one part red or white wine vinegar to two parts water
and float a layer of olive oil on top to preserve them.

