Title: UKHA (CLEAR SALMON SOUP)
Categories: Soups, Fish, Russian
Yield: 6 Servings
6 c  ;Water
1 1/2 lb Smelts, whole; cleaned well
1    Onion, med
1    Carrot, large; peeled/quarte
1    Leek (white only)
1    Celery stalk; with leaves
1    Parsnip; peeled
1    Bouquet garni
Salt; to taste
Pepper, white; to taste
1 lb Salmon trimmings
3/4 c  Wine, white, dry
3    Potato, new
2    Carrot, thin; peeled
1    Egg white
1    Eggshell; crushed
1 lb Salmon fillet, skinned
5 tb Scallion; chopped
Lemon slices, thin
Approx. Cook Time: 2:00 In a
large stock pot, place the water, smelts, onion, quartered carrot,
leek, celery, parsnip, bouquet garni, and salt and pepper, and bring
to a boil over high heat, periodically skimming off the foam as it
rises to the top. Cover the pot, reduce the heat, and simmer for 35
minutes. Strain the stock through a fine sieve into a clean pot,
pressing the solids with the back of a spoon to extract as much
liquid as possible. Discard the solids. Return the stock to the heat
and add the salmon trimmings, wine, potatoes, and thin carrots. Bring
to a boil, then reduce the heat to low and simmer, covered, until the
vegetables are tender, about 25 minutes. Strain the stock into a
clean pot, discarding all the solids except the potatoes and all the
carrots. Rinse the potatoes and carrots being careful not to mash
them, and set aside. Return the stock to low heat and simmer for
several minutes. Add the egg white and shell and increase the heat to
medium high. Bring to a boil, beating constantly, with a wire whisk.
When the stock boils, the egg white will start rising to the surface.
At this point, turn off the heat and let stand for five minutes. Line
a colander with a double layer of dampened cheesecloth and strain the
stock into a clean pot. Add the fish fillets to the stock and poach
over medium low heat until cooked through; five minutes. Taste and
adjust the seasonings. Halve the reserved potatoes and cut into
wedges.  Cut the carrots into fine dice. Divide the fish fillets
among six soup bowls. Add a few potato wedges and diced carrots to
each bowl.  Ladle the stock into the bowls, sprinkle with scallions,
and garnish with lemon slices.

--- Please to the Table
von Bremzen and Welchman

