Title: UNCLE SHELS BADLANDS BUSHWAKER SAUCE
Categories: None
Yield: 1 Servings
1 tb Orange-habanero-chipotle oil
(follwing)
1/2 c  Onion -- chopped
1/2 ts Garlic -- fine chop
32 oz Tomato Sauce
1 c  Lightly packed brown sugar
1/4 c  Cider vinegar +
1 tb Cider vinegar
1/4 c  Wrights Liquid smoke
2 ts Honey
3 tb Jack Daniels or other burbon
2 ts Juice of lemon or lime
***SPICE BLEND***
1 ts Whole white peppercorns
1 ts Whole black pepper corns
1 ts Whole corriander seeds
1/2 ts Whole cumin seed
1/8 ts Whole fennel seed
4 sm Dried chipotles
1    Ancho stemmed but with
Seeds
20    Chilpectin or wild piquin
Pods
1    Clove garlic
1/4 ts Dried habanero -- ground
2 ts Hot or sweet hungarian
Paprika
1/2 ts Cayenne
Saute the onion in the oil over medium- high heat until translucent,
add the minced garlic, reduce heat to medium and continue cooking for
another min. or two. Add the tomato sauce and stir well to mix. Add
the remaining ingredients, one at a time, down to and including the
honey, stir after each ingredients.

Add the spice blend ingredients to a spice grinder down to and
including the clove. Grind up all the ingredients until you get a
medium fine, somewhat grainy result. Add the habanero and the paprika
and blend together.

Stir in the spice mixture to the sauce, 1 teaspoon at a time until
you find the heat/flavor level you like (about 4-5 average). Add the
cayenne (opptional) and stir.After a min. or so add the burbon and
the lemon juice and let the sauce heat for another five min.or so,
stiring every now and again. Turn off heat let sauce steep for at
least 1/2 hour or more to let flavors meld.Taste and adjust your
spice mixture. Serve as a hot table sauce. This is not a marinade or
a cooking sauce, although you might add a light brushing to your meat
or chiocken about 15 min. before removing from grill.

Orange-Habanero-Chipotle oil 3-4 Chipotle dried peppers, 1 dried
habanero, 2-3 tbls dried orange peel minced, 2 cups canola oil. In a
spice mill combine the dry ingredients and grind fine. Combine the
spice mix with the canola oil in a clean GLASS jar with a
non-reactive top. let the mixture sit in a cool place away from
sunlight, for 2-3 days, shaking the jar 2-3 times per day. Filter the
oil through a paper coffee filter into a clean glass jar. Can be
stored in the fridge upto 6 months. Note: It may take some time for
the oil to run through the filter completely.

