Title: VARENYKY (FILLED DUMPLINGS)
Categories: Soups, Breads, Russian, Holiday, Ethnic
Yield: 10 Servings
5 c  Unbleached All-Purpose Flour
1 ts Salt
2 tb Butter
1 c  Evaporated Milk
1/2 c  Water as needed
* Do not use Condensed milk in this recipe

Combine the flour and salt in a large bowl, forming a well in the
middle. Add the butter and milk and mix lightly until the flour is
absorbed. (Add a little warm water as needed.) Knead until the dough
sticks together, cover and allow to rest for a few minutes, then
knead until smooth. Cover and set aside. Place the dough in a lightly
oiled bowl, turn, and cover for about 1/2 . Place 1/4 of the dough on
a floured work surface, re-covering the rest of the dough.  Roll into
a circle, starting at the center and rolling outwards to maintain an
even thickness, turn over and from the center, roll the dough out to
about 1/8-inch thickness. Run a hand under the bottom to loosen it.
With a 3" biscuit cutter or a glass, cut into rounds. When done
cutting, place 1 T of the filling on one side of each, flipping the
other half over the top and sealing with your fingers or a fork. Be
sure to seal these well. Place each of the dumplings on a floured
cooky sheet, keeping the dumplings covered with a towel. Repeat with
the remaining dough, saving the scraps until last. Use as little
flour as possible in this process or the scraps will be come tough
and heavy. Gently drop 12 to 15 varenyky into 3 quarts of boiling
water, in a large Dutch oven. Do not overcrowd. Stir and cook for
about 3 - 4 minutes. Drain in a collander and place on a lightly
oiled cookies sheet, shaking to coat with a thin film to prevent
sticking. Do not pile the dumplings on top of each other. If the
varenyky are to be frozen, remove with a slotted spoon when they
float to the top. DO NOT overcook. To freeze. Place in the freezer on
an oiled cookie sheet when they are at room temp.. When they are
frozen hard, store in tightly sealed plastic bags. Varenyky may be
poached, pan-fried or steamed, served as an accompaniment with meats,
or served with sour cream, chopped sauteed onions, plain yogurt,
bacon or sausages.

