Title: VEGETABLE STOCK (REFERENCE)
Categories: Digest, Dec., Text, Reference
Yield: 1 Servings
None
4    Vegetable Stocks Described:
Pritikin Vegetable Broth is canned and ff.  It has 290 mg sodium per
serving (about 1 cup).  Though that isn't great, the label says it is
65% less sodium than Swanson canned veggie broth. I haven't tried it
yet.

Hain makes a canned vegetable stock that is good, but it isn't clear
so it isn't too good for clear soups or gravies. It's basically
pureed veggies. It has the texture of v8 juice and the color of
carrot juice.

Vecon is a stock base that comes in a jar.  It's imported from
England. It's pretty good.  (Thanks to Michael Traub for pointing me
to it.) 1/2 tsp makes 1 cup of broth and has 40mg of fat (i.e. .040
gram, ff by American labeling standards).  It has 235 mg sodium. The
first ingredient is hydrolyzed vegetable protein, which I think some
people avoid -- I think it's a source of msg.

Gayelord Hauser's Instant Vegetable Broth is a powder. It contains
yeast, soy flour, hydrolized vegetable protein, and a bunch of ground
up dehydrated vegetables. Vegetables that are dehydrated, ground, then
reconstituted in boiling water taste a lot different from vegetable
stock that is dehydrated.  I think this stuff is rather bland, but it
might be ok for cooking. It doesn't give nutritional info on the box,
but based on the ingredients (no added salt or fat) it should be
pretty good.

There's a brand of stock called "Take Stock" that comes frozen in 8-oz
containers.  They have a veggie stock that I think is ff that I only
have tried once. The stuff I made from it was awful, through no fault
of the stock, but that means I don't know if the stock is good on its
own. Don't know about sodium.

Posted by "Catherine A. Foulston" <cathyf@windrose.rice.edu> to
Fatfree Digest [Volume
13    Issue 9] Dec. 9, 1994.

FATFREE Recipe collections copyrighted by Michelle Dick 1994. Used
with permission. Formatted by Sue Smith, S.Smith34,
TXFT40A@Prodigy.com using MMCONV.

1.80รก

