Title: VEGETARIAN POT PIE
Categories: Vegetables, Main dish, Vegetarian
Yield: 8 Servings
1 c  Onion chopped
1/2 c  Wine table, white
1 c  Milk skim
1 c  Celery diced
1 lb Carrots
4 md Pepper green
5 oz Beans Green, frozen
1/3 c  Peas, frozen,
1/3 c  Whole Wheat flour
2 c  Vegetable Broth (home made)
1 tb Parsley dried
1 ts Soy Sauce low sodium
1/4 ts Sage, ground
1/2 ts Thyme, ground
1/4 ts Pepper
1/4 ts Cayenne pepper
MMMMM---------------------CRUST INGREDIENTS--------------------------
1 3/4 c  All purpose flour
2 ts Baking Powder
1/2 ts Baking Soda
2 tb Margarine
3/4 c  Buttermilk
2 ts Honey
Start by making the crust. (Could use instant potatoes instead) Start
with ingredient 17. Sift flour,baking powder and soda into a large
bowl. Using a pastry blender or fork cut the margarine into the
mixture until it resembles coarse meal. Combine the buttermilk and
honey mixing well then add to flour mixture stirring with a fork to
form a stiff dough. Add more buttermilk if dough is too stiff. Knead
in bowl about 3 to 5 minutes until dough is no longer sticky. Turn
out onto a lightly floured surface. Roll out into the desired shape.
Coat an 8 cup casserole dish with vegetable spray. Preheat oven to
400 degrees. n a heavy sauce pan over medium high heat, heat wine to
a simmer, add onion. Cook, stirring for 3 minutes. Add celery,
carrots, bell pepper, green beans, and peas. If mixture starts to dry
out add more wine. Cook, stirring about 3 minutes. Reduce heat to
low. Sprinkle flour over the vegetable mixture; cook, stirring 2
minutes. Combine skim milk and 2 cups vegetable stock in a separate
bowl. Slowly whisk the liquid mixture into the saute'. Sauce will
start to thicken. Add the parsley, soy sauce, sage, thyme, pepper and
cayenne. Cook stirring constantly until filling is thickened. Remove
from heat and pour into prepared casserole dish. Lay biscuit crust
lightly over the filling. DO NOT SEAL EDGES. Bake 20 to 30 minutes or
until crust is golden brown and filling is bubbling.

