Title: VEGETABLE: WINTER SQUASH REFERENCE GUIDE
Categories: Info, Kooknet
Yield: 1 Servings
MMMMM-----------------VARIETIES OF WINTER SQUASH----------------------
BANANA: Long, cylindrical shape with pointed ends. Somewhat wrinkled
skin. Pale orange to creamy white shell. Hearty squash flavor.
Microcook quarters in a little water, covered, on high power for
about 12 minutes. Microcook 1" cubes the same way for about 6 min.
Let stand 5 min. after cooking.

BUTTERCUP:Dark green with grayish stripes or flecks. Shape is a
flattened round with a turban shape on top. Orange flesh. Weights 3
to 5 lbs. Some what dry but sweet meat. Place halves cut side down in
dish with 1/4 cup water, cover and microcook on high for 8-11 min.
Test for doneness, if nearly done, cover and let stand for 5-10 min.
before serving. Cook chunks as for Banana squash. This squash takes
well to glazing after baking, also mashing and pureeing for other
dishes.

BUTTERNUT (AFRICAN BELL):Large cylindrical shape, tan colour. Squash
has bulbous end. Deep orange flesh. Sweet, rich squash flavour. See
Banana squash. Good stuffed or glazed like sweet potatoes.

DELICATA (SWEET POTATO, BOHEMIAN SQUASH): Has elongated shape with
longitudinal grooves. Green and tan-striped skin. Very tender yellow
flesh. Mild, slightly sweet, corn-like flavour. Microcook rings or
chunks in 1/4 cup water, in a covered dish about 5-7 min.; let stand
5 min. Or place halves cut side up in covered dish with 1/4 cup
water, cook 7-10 min. rotating once. Let stand 5 min.

GOLDEN NUGGET: Small orange round; hard shell with ridges. Resembles
a tiny pumpkin. Slightly sweet, true squash flavour. Cook as for
Buttercup squash. Enjoy with butter and a bit of brown sugar, or
stuffed with meat mixtures or cheeses, or poultry stuffing.

HUBBARD: Skin can be golden, blue-gray, or green in colour. Golden
hubbard is salmon-orange. Usually rounded at the center and tapered
at ends. Sweet, rich squash flavour. Cook as Banana squash. Glaze, or
puree for use in other dishes (if texture is not watery). Also good
mixed with poultry stuffing.

KABOCHA: A Japanese variety of squash with a pale green-gray shell;
flattened ball shapes. Golden flesh, rich squash flavour. Cook as for
Buttercup squash. Takes well to stuffings, glazes and mashed or pureed
mixtures.

MEDITERRANEAN: It looks like a jumbo Butternut, but internal texture
resembles that of Spaghetti squash. Sweet flavoured. Cook as for
Delicata squash.  Bake and stuff with vegetables or cheese. Pulp is
sweet enough for pies.

SPAGHETTI: Between a winter and summer squash, with a semi-soft bright
yellow shell and stringy yellow interior that separates into
spaghetti like strands when cooked. Sweet, mild, crunchy flavour.
Cook as for Delicata squash. Then take two forks and scrape interior
it will separate into "spaghetti". Excellent with a white or tomato
sauce, or tossed with butter and herbs. Blend into stir fry mixtures
or chill the leftovers to toss into a salad.

SWEET DUMPLING: A small pumpkin-shaped squash, with a streaked white
and green- colored hard shell. Orange-yellow flesh. Naturally
sweet-tasting flesh. Cook as for Buttercup squash. Excellent for just
one or two servings. The shell is hollow enough to hold stuffing for
one. Stuff, with cooked dried fruit or apples, top with cheese and
nuts and run under the broiler.

TABLE QUEEN, GREEN AND GOLD (ACORN, DESMOINES, DANISH): Acorn-shaped
with green to yellow-gold skin, with deep furrows. Yellowish flesh.
Sweet-tasting, somewhat dry. Peel after cooking, the cooked skin is
easier to peel. The flesh takes well to sweet or nutty glazes or
stuffings.

TURBAN: Usually a bright orange color. Shape is a flattened round
base with three knobs on top, striped with cream, green or white.
Rich squash flavour. Cook as for Banana squash. Takes well to any
kind of stuffing. Also makes a colorful table decoration or fall
arrangement.

Source: Unknown, from the Echo. Posted by Michael Prothro KOOK-NET
:þ Mike's Resort BBS, Fayetteville,AR,(501)521-8920þ

