Title: VEGETABLE AMARANTH (HIN CHOY)
Categories: Vegetables
Yield: 1 Servings
Amaranth (hin choy)
Nutritionally, both the leaves and grain of amaranth are of unusual
value. Tasting like spinach with a touch of horseradish, the raw
greens have substantially more calcium than beet greens, kale, chard,
and spinach, and more iron than all these leaf vegetables and
collards as well. Because the gigantic amaranth yields four times
more green matter than comparably light-and-carbon-dioxide-efficient
plants, researchers have declared it an outstanding source of leaf
protein concentrates that can be used as fodder or as human food.

You can eat the stems and leaves of young stem tips together, but
it's best to cook the more mature stems alone for 8 to 10 minutes
(they taste a little like artichokes). To retain the most iron and
vitamin C in the leaves, steam them for 10 minutes. You can then
serve them with butter or mixed with peanut butter you've blended
with water.

If you like, add the raw leaves to soup broth or stir-fry them in
heated oil in which you've browned a garlic clove, then stir-fry in
some ground pork, add boiling water, and simmer a while. You can also
chop and stir-fry the larger shoots with bean sprouts and other
vegetables, adding a little soy sauce and water during the last 3 to
5 minutes of cooking. Or try incorporating the leaves in vegetable
curries as people do in India and Ceylon.

For more good eating, combine a pound of cooked, drained fresh
amaranth with 1 pound of ricotta cheese, 1 beaten egg, and 1/4 cup
grated Parmesan, and bake at 350'F for 30 minutes.

Or try raw amaranth chopped and mixed with chopped onion, slightly
beaten eggs, and a little salt, then fried as small pancakes in
safflower oil.

This green also tastes great when it's cooked and then added to
seasoned tomato sauce. If you like, you can mix the cooked greens in
a blender with minced garlic, parsley, basil, oregano, tomato sauce,
and some tomato paste, then use this mixture as one of the layers in
a lasagna that also features broad whole wheat noodles and a blend of
ricotta cheese, salt, pepper, and parsley.

Source: "Unusual Vegetables: Something New for This Year's Garden" by
the editors of Organic Gardening and Farming

