Title: VEGETABLE-OIL SOAP
Categories: Info
Yield: 5 & 1/2 lbs
1 qt Cold water
10 1/4 oz Pure lye crystals
23 oz White vegetable shortening
42 oz Olive oil
16 oz Coconut oil
If you have trouble getting animal fat, or don't want to render it
down, this soap is for you. This formula makes a mild soap rich with
coconut oil and olive oil.

SUPPLIES 2 quart lye-proof cooking pot plus 8-quart lye-proof cooking
pot (stainless steel, stoneware, or enameled cast iron)

rubber work gloves goggles, safety glasses, or face shield face mask
1 cup white vinegar (used as safety precaution only) stainless steel
or wooden spoon dairy, meat, or candy thermometer hand eggbeater
flexible plastic soap molds, such as margarine tubs or cardboard or
wooden boxes lined with plastic wrap

* BE SAFE.  Lye is very caustic; it can destroy skin by chemical
action. Handle it very carefully.

Place water in the 2-quart lye-proof pot. Put on rubber gloves and
other safety gear. Have the vinegar handy. Very slowly add lye
crystals to water, constantly stirring until lye is dissolved. As lye
is added to water, the water temperature will rise to around 150 deg
F. Place the thermometer in the water and allow it to cool to 95 to
98 degrees.

As the water is cooling, slowly heat the vegetable shortening and
oils in the 8-quart lye-proof pot until it reaches 95 to 98 F. When
both lye and fats are in the same 95 to 98 F temperature range,
slowly pour lye into fat, stirring constantly until well-mixed. Beat
mixture very gently with the eggbeater to the consistency of thick
honey. Avoid splashing.

Pour the mixture into molds, cover with a blanket, and set aside to
dry for 24 hours, well away from children or pets. After 24 hours,
carefully turn the soap out of the molds and leave it in a dry, airy
place for at least two weeks. A fine white powder may appear on the
surface when the soap is a few days old. This is sodium carbonate.
Wash it away when the soap is mature; it tends to make the skin dry.

* Notes:  Lye is crystalline sodium hydroxide or potassium hydroxide.
It is usually sold in the drain cleaner section of supermakets and
hardware stores. Buy pure lye crystals or flakes, not lye sold as a
liquid drain cleaner.  Buy coconut oil from drug stores and health
food stores.

Source: Rodale's Book of Practical Formulas Typed by Fran McGee

