Title: VEGGIE BROTH (STOCK)
Categories: Digest, Mar95
Yield: 1 Servings
1 ea Onions
1 ea Leeks
1 ea Carrots
1 ea Celery
1 ea Apple
1 ea Garlic
1 ea Mushrooms
1 ea Ginger
1 ea Lemon grass (opt)
1 ea Peelings & tired old
Vegetables
1 ea Parsely
1 ea Peppercorns
1 ea Fresh or dried herbs (thyme,
Dill, allspice)
1 ea Water to cover by two
Inches
Cut in big chunks (maybe quarters) a couple onions, leeks, several
carrots, some celery ribs and an apple. Toss them with several cloves
of garlic, some mushrooms (old, shriveled ones are the best), a few
slices of fresh ginger (peel and all), lemon grass is good if you
have it and a couple sprays of pam. Roast all this is 500 degree oven
for about 20 minutes until very brown. (This kind of carmelizes them,
and they develop a sweetness).

After roasting, put them in a stockpot, and add all the peelings and
trimmings you've saved up. plus any veggies you've had around long
enough they're beginning to look a little tired. (Or fresh ones,
too!) A bunch of parsely is nice, peppercorns, sprigs of dried or
fresh herbs (thyme is especially good), maybe some dill seeds, a
couple of whole allspices, and enough water to cover everything by 2
inches.

Bring to a boil, simmer for 20-30 minutes (I've let it go a lot
longer, too), fish out the vegies, strain, and you have great stock
for soup, sauteeing, cooking pasta or rice and whatever else.

The great thing about this, is the recipe really doesn't matter, just
the main principles. Use whatever vegies you've got and like (or get
rid of some you don't). The roasting and the apple (or pear) seem to
be key. The rest is pure invention.

Source: I'm very enthusiastic about vegetable stock. I've been making
mt own for several years, now and I think it's great. I got a couple
of ideas from the owner of a Seattle restaunt called Dahlia.

Posted by jschafer@medio.net (Jerry Schafer) to the Fatfree Digest
[Volume 16 Issue 21] Mar. 25, 1995.

Individual recipes copyrighted by originator. FATFREE Recipe
collections copyrighted by Michelle Dick 1995. Formatted by Sue Smith,
SueSmith9@aol.com using MMCONV. Archived through kindness of Karen
Mintzias, km@salata.com.

1.80รก

