Title: VENISON STEAKS WITH MUSHROOM GAME SAUCE
Categories: Other meat
Yield: 4 Servings
-----steaks-----
4    Venison steaks cut from loin
Juniper berries; ground
2 ts Salt
1/3 c  Butter; melted
2 c  Wild mushroom game sauce
-----sauce-----
1 oz Dried boletus edulis (cepe,
2 c  Water
2 oz Fresh onions; chopped
3 tb Butter; melted
3 tb Flour
1 c  Rich meat stock; * see note
1/2 c  Dry red wine
Salt and pepper; to taste
6    Juniper berries; crushed fin
2    Allspice berries; crushed fi
1 ts Dijon mustard
1/4 ts Paprika
2 oz Dill pickles; diced
Recipe by: plgold@ix.netcom.com (Pat Gold) * preferably from the game
being used, commercial ok

Notes: Prepare wild mushroom game sauce.

STEAKS:

Do not overcook the venison here.  It should be done no more than
medium rare in the center.  This perparation does not require
marinading, because the tenderness of the loin meat. Serve with
quick-sauteed potatoes with dill sauce, and Stag's Leap Cabernet.

1.  Pound the steaks to 1/2-inch thickness.  Sprinle lightly with the
juniper berries and salt.

2.  Saute the steaks with the butter for about 3 minutes on each
side. The meat should be done no more than medium rare.

3.  Heat the wild mushroom game sauce, adjust for salt, pour over the
steks, and serve.

SAUCE:

This sauce is excellent for furred game, especially if the meat has
not been marinated.  It is very much in the traditional European
Hunter's Style, which uses juinper berries and pickles. It was
developed through the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries by cooks
working on the great landed-gentry estates of France, Poland and
Germany.

1.  Clean mushrooms thoroughly under brisk running water.

2.  Combine the mushrooms and about 2 cups of water in a saucepan, and
bring to a boil.  Then reduce the heat, and let simmer for 30 minutes.
Remove reconstituted mushrooms from broth, and set aside for later
addition to sauce.

3.  Prepare a roux:  Saute the onions in the butter until they are
almost traansparent; add the flour, and stir for 1 minute.

4.  Add the simmered mushroom extract, strained meat stock, and red
wine to the roux mixture, and stir till blended and slightly
thickened. Season with salt and pepper.

5.  Add juniper berries, allspice, mustard, paprika, reconstituted
mushrooms, and dill pickles.  Simmer for 5 minutes. Add salt and
pepper. The sauce is now ready to use.

Serves 4.

