Title: VERY MINTY~ VEGETABLE BIRYANI
Categories: Oriental
Yield: 1 Servings
1    Inch ginger -- fresh,
Peeled
4 1/2    Cloves garlic
4    Chillies, green
2 c  Yogurt -- thick
6    Tomatoes, medium -- diced
6    Cardamoms
6    Cloves
6    Cinnamon sticks
1 ts Turmeric powder
1 ts Garam masala
2 ts Coriander powder
1/2 ts Red chili powder
1 bn Coriander leaves -- fresh,
Chopped
1 bn Mint leaves -- fresh,  torn
5    Chillies, green -- slit
2 1/2 c  Rice (basmati preferred) --
Washed and well drai
2    Medium-large onions --
Sliced very  thin
4 ts Ghee
5 c  Water
2 c  Beans -- slivered
1 c  Carrots -- slivered
2 c  Cauliflower -- cut into
sm Flore
4    Bay leaves (tez patta)
1 ts (heaped) fennel seeds
1    Star anise -- broken
Pre-heat oven to 400.

Grind to paste the ginger, garlic, and 4 chillies. Add to yogurt
along with tomatoes, cardamoms, cloves, cinnamon, turmeric, garam
masala, coriander powder, red chili, coriander leaves, mint and slit
chillies. Mix well and set aside. For best results let this soak for
2-3 hours.

Fry half the sliced onions in 3 tbsp. ghee until translucent. Add the
rice, stir till coated with ghee and fry until a little crisp. Add
water, cover and cook on low, low heat till three-fourths done.
Remove from heat. Removing rice off heat after it is three-quarters
done should leave some fluid content that will get absorbed in the
baking process. Baking allows the flavors to seep in evenly as well
as make the rice fluffy.

Heat 4 tbsp. oil plus 1 tbsp. ghee. Add tez patta, fennel, star anise
(a must!). Add remaining sliced onion and fry until clear. Add
vegetables, stir until crisp cooked. Add yogurt mix, salt to taste
and cook it down till thick and spoonable.

Spread some rice in a large aluminum baking pan, then spread on some
of the yogurt mix. Repeat, alternating rice and yogurt mix till
everything is used up. Cover tightly with foil wrap by crimping foil
over edges of pan. Bake for 30 mins.

Serve with a cold raita and a light curry of your choice.

~ - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

From hassell@eecs.tulane.edu Mon Aug 26 16:27:59 1996 For the lucky
one with tons of ripe tomatoes.! johnette

: U15297@uicvm.uic.edu
Recipe By

From: La Parilla The Mexican Grill By R

