Title: VIETNAMESE SPRING NOODLE SALAD
Categories: Vietnamese, Salads, Extras, Rice/grains
Yield: 6 Servings
Water for boiling
1/2 lb Quarter inch rice sticks
-(imported from Thailand)*
2 c  Fresh snow peas; trimmed
16 md Shrimp; shelled
1    Clove garlic; minced
1    Shallot; minced
2/3 c  Fresh lime juice
1/2 c  Fish sauce*
1/2 c  Water
4 tb Sugar
1/2 ts Red pepper flakes
2    Bibb lettuce heads; leaves
-separated, rinsed and
-patted dry
3    Carrots; peeled and grated
3 c  Fresh mung bean sprouts
1 c  Diced cucumber
2    Scallions; trimmed and
-thinly sliced
1 c  Fresh mint leaves
1/4 c  Fresh cilantro; roughly
-chopped; 1/4 to 1/2 cup
* Available in Asian grocery stores

Bring one large pot and one medium-size pot of water to a boil. Drop
the snow peas into the medium-size pot and cook for about 10 seconds
(they will turn bright green). Remove them from the pot with a
slotted spoon and rinse under cold water.

When the water in the medium-size pot has returned to a boil, add the
shrimp and cook for 2 minutes, or until opaque. Drain, and rinse
shrimp under cold water. Set aside.

Add the rice noodles to the large pot of boiling water. Boil for 4-5
minutes, drain, and rinse under cold water.

In a small bowl, whisk together the garlic, shallot, lime juice, fish
sauce, 1/2 cup water, sugar, and pepper flakes until the sugar is
dissolved. Divide the dressing into four small bowls.

Pile the lettuce leaf "cups" in the center of a large platter.
Surround the lettuce with separate mounds of carrot, bean sprouts,
cucumber, scallion, mint. cilantro, snow peas, noodles, and shrimp.

Give each person a plate upon which to put a lettuce leaf cup. Fill
each lettuce cup with a tiny bit of ingredient, drizzle with the
dressing, and roll up in the shape of a cylinder.

Serves 4-6. 289 calories per serving; 5% calories from fat; 2g total
fat; 1g saturated fat; 35 mg cholesterol; 14g protein; 57g
carbohydrates; 805 mg sodium; 5g fiber.

"MealMasterized" by Mary Ann Young from June 1995 issue of _Walking_
by food writer Victoria Abbott Riccardi.

