Title: VINDALOO
Categories: Indian, Meats, Ethnic
Yield: 6 Servings
1 tb Coriander seeds
1 tb Poppy seeds
1 tb Red mustard seeds
1 tb Cumin seeds
1/2 c  Corn or peanut oil
2 tb Dried hot red chili flakes
1 tb Ginger, fresh; grated
4    Garlic cloves; ground to a
-paste
1 lb Pork, boneless; cut in 2"
-cubes
1 lb Beef, boneless; cut in 2 "
-cubes
1 ts -salt, to taste
1 c  -Water
1/2 c  Vinegar
"Vinegar is a preservative & therefore the vindaloo may be kept in the
refrigerator for several days before using. In fact, the flavour are
intensified if the vindaloo is eaten one or two days before cooking,
warm slightly. ... The vindaloo requires that a substantial amount of
oil be used in the preparation. For our purpose & without
compromising the flavor, I have suggested that the excess oil be
poured off before dining. Toasting & grinding the whole spice seeds
is the old-time method & very effective in deriving the most flavor.
However, I have also lightly toasted ground spices, which is an
improvement over using them directly from the container. The recipe
is one prepared by the Bhatia Christians of Calcutta, a group of
Anglo-Indians who have intermarried with Bengali Indians."

Lightly toast the coriander, poppy, mustard seeds, & cumin seeds in a
dry skillet for 2 or 3 minutes until the aroma is released. Grind the
seeds in a processor to a fine powder. Set aside. Heat the oil in a
pan & add all the toasted dry spices, the chili flakes ginger and
garlic. Stir fry over moderately low heat for 2 min. Add the meat &
stir continuously for 10 minutes as the meat browns. Add the water,
cover the pan & cook until the meats are tender, about 1 hour. When
the meats have been fully tenderized, add the vinegar & continue to
cook until the vinegar evaporates & the oil has risen. This is an
indication that the vindaloo is ready. At this stage, all the oil may
be poured off before serving. Serve warm with plain white rice &
masoor dal.

SERVES:6 Source: The Anglo-Indian chapter in _The Varied Cuisines of
India_ by Copeland Marks posted by Anne MacLellan

