Title: WARM PEACH & RASPBERRY COMPOTE/ICE CREAM/CO
Categories: Sauce, Ice cream, Cookies
Yield: 4 Servings  Warm Peach and Raspberry Compote over Crème Fraîch Ice Cream with
Pine Nut Cookies
Crème Fraîche Ice Cream
:

1 1/2 cups milk
:

6 egg yolks
:

3/4 cups sugar
:

1/2 vanilla bean,
:
or
1/4 teaspoon vanilla extract
:

1 1/2 cups crème fraîche In small saucepan whisk together
:
the milk, egg yolks, sugar and vanilla bean. Whisk constantly over
medium heat until thickened. Remove from heat and immediately
transfer to a stainless steel bowl. Cover and refrigerate until cold.
Remove vanilla bean. Transfer to the mixing container of an ice cream
machine. Refrigerate until slushy. Add the crème fraîche and continue
mixing until the ice cream is firm. Transfer to a storage container
and pack down lightly. Freeze until serving. Makes about 1 quart.

Warm Peach and Raspberry Compote

2 to 3 ripe peaches, peeled

2    tablespoons water

2 to 3 tablespoons sugar

Zest of 1/2 lemon

1    pint raspberries

Cut peaches into cubes, place in a small saucepan. Stir in water,
sugar and lemon zest. Cook just until peaches are tender. Stir in
raspberries and heat just until warmed. Taste and adjust flavor with
sugar or lemon juice as needed.

NOTE: This is best made shortly before serving.

Pine Nut Shortbread Cookies

1    cup all-purpose flour

1/3    cup sugar

1/4    teaspoon baking powder

5    ounces cold butter

2/3 cup (5 ounces) ground pine nuts

1 teaspoon Cointreau (orange flavored liqueur)

Whole pine nuts for decoration

In the small bowl of a mixer combine flour, sugar and baking powder.
Gradually mix in the butter until mixture resembles coarse cornmeal.
Blend in pine nuts then mix briefly. Turn out onto a lightly floured
board and gently knead in the Cointreau. Form the dough into a disk,
wrap with plastic and refrigerate until firm. Allow dough to soften
slightly at room temperature before rolling out.

Roll dough on a lightly floured sheet of parchment paper to a
thickness of 1/8-inch. Leaving the dough on the paper, neatly cut
rows of round cookies spaced about 1 inch apart. Remove the excess
dough from between the cookies and transfer the entire sheet of
parchment onto a baking pan. Repeat process with dough scraps.

Gently press a few whole pine nuts onto the top of each cookie. Bake
at 350°F until golden (8 to 10 minutes). Do not overbake. Allow to
cool slightly before removing from baking sheet. Makes about 2 dozen
small cookies.

NOTE: To grind pine nuts, place in a food processor fitted with a
metal blade and sprinkle lightly with flour. Pulse several times
until ground.

TO SERVE: Place a few small scoops of ice cream in a dessert dish (or
a very elegant glass). Spoon the warm compote over the ice cream and
arrange a couple of cookies at the side. Serve immediately, and do
the dishes in the morning.·

