Title: WEDDING TORTE
Categories: Desserts
Yield: 12 Servings
7    Eggs, separated
1 c  Granulated sugar
Zest of 1/2 lemon
1 c  Flour
1/2 ts Baking powder
1/3 c  Butter, melted
Wedding Torte #1 Lemon Genoise

From:  The Detroit News Sent By: Teresa Marco

Preheat oven to 350o.  In mixer or copper bowl, beat whites to a stiff
snow; slowly add sugar and beat until stiff peaks form.

In separate bowl, whisk yolks and mix in lemon zest. Slowly fold the
two mixtures together.

Sift together flour and baking powder, and slowly fold into egg
mixture. Fold in melted butter.

Pour into 10" greased and floured cake pan.  Bake for 25-30 mins. or
until a toothpick inserted into center comes out clean. Turn cake
onto clean linen tea towel to cool.

BAKED HAZELNUT MERINGUE

4 egg whites 2/3 C sugar, divided 1 C + 1 tsp ground hazelnuts (or
almonds) 1/3 C flour 2 tsp cocoa powder
1/3 c  cornstarch

Preheat oven to 350o.  Whisk egg whites until firm, gradually adding a
little less than half of the sugar. Carefully fold in ground
hazelnuts, flour, cocoa powder, cornstarch and remaining sugar. Pour
into greased and paper-lined 10" cake pan.  Bake for 20 mins or until
a toothpick inserted in middle comes out clean. Turn onto rack and
cool.

BAVARIAN CREAM

1/3 qt. half and half 1/4 C sugar 4 egg yolks 5 sheets gelatin or 1
TBSP + 1/2 tsp unflavored granulated gelatin (if using sheets, soak
for 20 mins. in cold water and squeeze dry; if using granulated,
dissolve in 4 TBSP cold water) 1 oz. fruit liqueur (Grand Marnier,
Triple Sec, etc.) or rum 1/2 qt. whipping cream

Reserve 1/2 C of the half and half and mix with yolks. Set aside.
Bring remaining half and half and sugar to a boil and stir in yolk
mixture; reduce heat to low and cook, stirring often, until custard
coats back of a wooden spoon. Stir in granulated gelatin or softened
sheets and remove from heat to cool.

When custard begins to set, stir until smooth.  Add liqueur and fold
in stiffly whipped cream.  (If making a day ahead of time, cover
surface with plastic wrap and chill. Stir before you use it. Partoens
feels it's best, however, when made early the same day.)

FINAL ASSEMBLY

2 small cartons (1/2 pint each) whipping cream, whipped until stiff 1
small jar raspberry or strawberry jam Assorted fresh fruit:
pineapple; variety of berries, sliced kiwi, and peaches whatever you
desire, just so it's fresh and ripe

On serving plate, place baked hazelnut meringue.  Coat with jam. With
long knife, carefully slice sideways through lemon genoise to make 3
layers. Place on layer on the jam. Spread (or pipe) with Bavarian
cream. Dot with kiwi and peach slices.  Add layer aand cover with
Bavarian cream and sliced strawberries.  Add final layer and frost
with whipped cream. (If desired, pipe a design on the top and around
the bottom with whipped cream.) Arrange fresh fruit on the top.

Optional: Coat fresh fruit with Dr. Oetker fruit glaze, available at
European import shops.

Serves 12.

Happy Baking and Eating!

Teresa Marco :)

