Title: WHITE CHOCOLATE POUND CAKE
Categories: Desserts
Yield: 6 Servings
1 tb Finely chopped pecans
1/2 lb Unsalted butter, at room
-temperature
2 c  Sugar
1 c  Heavy whipping cream
4 oz Finely chopped white
-chocolate, melted and tepid
6 lg Eggs, at room temperature
3 c  All-purpose flour
1/2 ts Salt
1/4 ts Baking soda
Derek Maddox (The Tally System - 912-328-6183 - (1:36)
FROM:

Posting the recipe for that disgustingly rich chocolate pound cake the
other day reminded me of another favorite cake around our house. This
White Chocolate Pound Cake is a lot lighter than the other, and is
delicious with fresh strawberries or raspberries. I've even been
known to sneak a piece of this cake for breakfast (when the kids
aren't looking). The recipe comes from the "White Chocolate Cookbook"
by Janice Henderson. There's lots more where this came from if you
want them.

White Chocolate Pound Cake

Position a rack in the center and preheat oven to 300 deg F. Butter a
10 inch fluted tube pan.  Dust with flour; tap out the excess.
Sprinkle the pecans over the bottom.

Using an electric mixer set at medium speed, beat the butter in a
large bowl until light and fluffy, then add the sugar, 1 cup at a
time, beating well after each addition.

Blend in the cream and white chocolate.  Add the eggs, one at a time,
beating well after each addition.  Into a large bowl, sift the flour
with the salt and baking soda. Mix the flour mixture into the cream
mixture, 1 cup at a time, just until blended.

Pour the batter into the prepared pan and bake until a cake tester
inserted in the center of the cake comes out clean, about 1 hour and
15 minutes to 1 hour and 30 minutes. Transfer the cake in the pan to
a wire rack and cool 15 minutes.  Loosen the cake from the edges of
the pan with a metal spatula and invert onto the wire rack. Cool
completely. Through a fine-mesh sieve, sprinkle confectioners' sugar
over the top of the cake. store at room temperature, wrapped airtight.

One note on melting white chocolate:  Since the fats in white
chocolates melt at different temperatures, and since the milk
proteins tend to clump if overheated, melting white chocolate can be
very frustrating. I've found that the easiest method is to chop the
chocolate into small pieces and melt them in the microwave. Microwave
at high power for 1 minute, then stir. If necessary, continue the
process for additional 30-second intervals until completely melted.
Microwave only until smooth; DO NOT OVERHEAT!!!

Whatever you do, don't take this cake to work with you. I did that
once and have not had a moment's peace since. B-)

** -=> this comes from the bottom of the files of Shelley Rodgers <=-

