Title: WHITE CHOCOLATE VELOUTES 2
Categories: Chocolate, Godiva
E  *****
Yield: 8 Servings

Part 2........

In a 4 1/2-quart bowl of a heavy-duty electric mixer, using the wire
whip attachment, beat the eggs and the salt at medium-high speed
until frothy. Add the sugar in a steady stream and beat just until
blended. Remove the bowl from the mixer stand and place over a pot of
hot water. (The bottom of the bowl must touch the water. ) Cook over
medium-high heat, whisking constantly for 3 to 5 minutes, or until
the granules of sugar have dissolved and the egg mixture has reached
140 degrees F on an instant-read thermometer. Return the bowl to the
mixer stand and beat at medium-high speed until the mixture is thick
and pale yellow, about 8 minutes.

Place the cold water in a small, heatproof cup. Sprinkle the gelatin
over the water and let it stand for 5 minutes to soften the gelatin.
Place the cup with the softened gelatin in a saucepan with enough
water to come halfway up the side of the cup. Heat the gelatin
mixture over hot, not simmering, water. Stir the gelatin frequently
for 3 to
4    minutes, or until the gelatin granules dissolve completely
and the mixture is clear. Remove the pan from the heat. Whisk the
dissolved gelatin mixtureinto the beaten egg mixture. Using a large
rubber spatula, fold the cooled white chocolate into the mixture.
Fold one-third of the whipped cream into the mixture to lighten it.
Fold in the remaining whipped cream.

Assemble the veloutes: Fill a pastry bag fitted with a plain l/2-inch
round tip with some of the veloute mixture. Pipe a circle of filling
into the bottom of each mold, on top of the cake round. Pipe more
veloute to fill in the center of the circle so that the entire cake
round is covered with a level layer of filling, approximately
one-third up the side of the mold. In each mold, place 6 to 7
raspberries in a circle on top of the filling, leaving a l/4-inch
border of filling around the edge. Place 1 teaspoon of raspberry jam
in the center of each raspberry circle.

Pipe more veloute filling into each mold, to fill completely. Using a
small metal cake spatula, scrape the top of each mold to make the
filling level with the top of the mold. Cover the molds with plastic
wrap and refrigerate at least 2 hours or overnight, until set.

Make the warm chocolate curls: Warm the 8-ounce chunk of white
chocolate by placing it on a piece of waxed paper, then microwave on
MEDIUM (50 percent) power for 10 second intervals, until the
chocolate starts to soften slightly. The chocolate should soften
slightly, not melt.

Line a baking sheet with waxed paper. Grip the chocolate chunk with a
folded paper towel so that your hand does not melt the chocolate.
Using a sharp vegetable peeler, scrape one of the edges of the
chocolate chunk in a downward motion, forming loose shavings. As you
form the curls, let them fall onto the waxed paper. Continue making
curls until you have enough to garnish just the tops of the veloutes.

Make the crumb garnish: Preheat the oven to 425 degrees F. Line a
baking sheet with aluminum foil. Break the reserved sponge cake into
small pieces and spread in an even layer on the baking sheet. Bake
5to 7 minutes, until the cake is dry and lightly toasted. Allow the
cake pieces to cool. Place the cake "toast" in a food processor
fitted with the metal chopping blade and process 30 to
45    seconds, or until fine crumbs are formed. Transfer the
crumbs to a medium bowl.

Make the raspberry sauce: In a medium non-corrosive saucepan, combine
the raspberries and sugar. Cook over medium-low heat, stirring
constantly with a wooden spoon, until the sugar dissolves completely
and the berries soften. Remove the pan from the heat. Strain the
raspberry mixture through a fine-meshed sieve into a bowl. Cover the
bowl with plastic wrap and refrigerate the sauce.

Unmold and garnish the veloutes: Remove the molds from the
refrigerator and gently peel the tape off the seams. Carefully remove
the molds from the veloutes . Gently pat the cake crumbs around the
sides of each veloute, covering them evenly from the top edge to the
bottom. Top the veloutes with the white chocolate curls.
webmaster@godiva. c m

:
Recipe By

