Title: WHITE PORK SAUSAGE (BOUDIN BLANC DE LIEGE)
Categories: Breakfast
Yield: 1 Servings
2 c  Milk
2 md Onions, chopped
2 md Carrots, chopped
1 lg Celery stalk with leaves,
-chopped
6    Fresh parsley sprigs
7 lg Shallots, minced
1 lg Garlic clove, crushed
2    Bay leaves, broken
3 1/2 ts Salt
2    Whole cloves
1/2 ts Freshly ground white
-pepper
1/8 ts Freshly grated nutmeg
-Pinch of dried thyme,
-crumbled
1 tb Butter
12 oz Boneless lean center loin
-pork, trimmed of all fat,
-cut into 1-inch chunks and
-well chilled
9 oz Fresh pork fat cut from
-loin, fresh bacon or
-fatback, well chilled
3 md Eggs
6 tb All-purpose flour
1/4 c  Tawny Port
1/4 ts Minced garlic
2 1/2 tb Currants, minced
9    Feet sausage casings,
-rinsed inside and out,
-soaked in
-cold water 1 hour and
-rinsed again
1/4 c  (1/2 stick) butter
Bring milk, onions, carrots, celery, parsley, 3 shallots, garlic
clove, bay leaves, salt, cloves, pepper, nutmeg and thyme just to
boil in heavy 4-quart saucepan over medium heat. Remove from het,
cover and let stand 30 minutes. Refrigerate until mixture is well
chilled, about 2 hours. Meanwhile, melt 1 Tbsp butter in heavy small
skillet over low heat. Add remaining 4 minced shallots. Cover and
cook until very soft, stirring occasionally, about 15 minutes.  Puree
with on/off turns in processor with pork, pork fat, eggs, flour, Port
and 1/4 tsp garlic until smooth. Strain milk into processor, pressing
down on solids to extract as much liquid as possible. Blend into
puree.  Transfer to large bowl. Stir in currants. Refrigerate 1 to 8
hours. (If processor has small capacity, puree in batches.) Cut
sausage casings into 3-foot lengths. Tie knot at one end of each.
Gather 1 piece around tip of pastry bag fitted with 1/2-inch plain
tip. Spoon pork mixture into pastry bag, pressing down to prevent air
pockets. Pipe mixture into casing, twisting casing every 6 inches to
create individual sausages. Tie know at end of casing. Repeat with
remaining pork and casings.  Tie twists in sausage with string. Bring
8 quarts water to boil in stockpot. Remove from heat and add
sausages. Return pot to heat, adjusting as necessary to maintain
water just below simmer (180 F). Cook until sausages are firm to
touch, 20 minutes, turning occasionally. Cool in cold water to retain
plumpness.  Cut into individual links. (Can be prepared ahead to this
point. Wrap and refrigerate up to 3 days or freeze up to 2 months.)
Melt butter in heavy skillet over medium heat. Lightly brown sausages
on all sides, about 8 minutes total. Serve hot. (Sausage can also be
grilled.)

