Title: WHITE BEAN CHILI WITH TURKEY
Categories: Chili, Vegetables, Salads, Beans
Yield: 8 Servings
-----chili-------
1 lb Dried white beans
1 tb Vegetable oil
2 c  Chopped onions
2    4 oz can diced green chilies
6    Cl Garlic; minced
1 1/2 tb Dried oregano; crushed
1 tb Ground cumin
1 tb Chili powder
7 c  Chicken broth
18 oz Fresh or canned tomatillos
-chopped, about 3 1/2 cups
1 c  Chopped fresh cilantro
1 1/2 lb Boneless skinless turkey
-breast, cut crosswise
-in half
1 c  Chopped green onions
2 tb Fresh lime juice
-----cilantro cream--------
2/3 c  Plain yogurt
3 tb Chopped fresh parsley
3 tb Chopped fresh cilantro
------garnish------
Fresh cilantro sprigs
1/2 c  Grated cheddar cheese
For chili: The recipe recommends soaking the beans overnight.
Personally, I don't like to do that. I find the quick soak method
works better. That is, cover beans with cold water. Bring to a boil
and boil for 1-2 min. Turn off heat and let soak for 1 1/2 hours.
Drain beans. Heat vegetable oil in a large heavy Dutch oven over
medium heat. Add chopped onion and saute 5 minutes.  Add diced
chilies, minced garlic, oregano, cumin, and chili powder. Saute for 5
minutes. Add beans, chicken broth, chopped tomatillos and cilantro.
It's important that the chicken broth contain little or no salt. Salt
inhibits the softening of the seed coat of beans. Therefore, if you
add salt too early the beans with never soften up. Add turkey breast
and simmer until just cooked through, about 20 minutes. Transfer
turkey to plate. Cover with foil and refrigerate. Simmer chili until
beans are tender, about 2 1/2 hours. Cut turkey into 1/2 inch pieces.
Add turkey, green onions and lime juice to chili. Stir. Heat through.
Season with salt and pepper.

For cilantro cream: Combine yogurt, parsley, chopped cilantro in a
medium bowl.  Ladle chili into bowls. Top with spoonful of cilantro
cream. Sprinkle with cilantro sprigs and cheese. Can be prepared 1
day ahead. Cover chili and cilantro cream separately and refrigerate.
Before serving, reheat chili over low heat. Like most chili, it
tastes better the second day.  From Bon Appetit September 1992

