Title: WHITE CHOC PEPPER MOUSSE NAPOLEON 2
Categories: Chocolate, Godiva, Mousses
E  *****
Yield: 4 Servings

Continued:

Make the white chocolate black pepper mousse: Melt the white chocolate
according to the directions in the Chocolate Key. Set aside to cool.

In a chilled 4 l/2-quart bowl of a heavy-duty electric mixer, using
the wire whip attachment, whip the cream until it just begins to
mound. Set aside in the refrigerator until ready to use.

Place 3 tablespoons of the cold water in a small, heatproof cup.
Sprinkle the gelatin over the water and let it stand for 5 minutes to
soften. Place the cup with the softened gelatin in a saucepan with
enough water to come halfway up the side of the cup. Heat the gelatin
mixture over hot, not simmering, water. Stir the gelatin frequently
until it dissolves completely and the mixture is clear, about 3 to 4
minutes. Remove the pan from the heat and set aside.

In a 4 1/2-quart bowl of a heavy-duty electric mixer, place the egg
yolks, orange liqueur, the remaining 2 tablespoons of water, the
black pepper and the sugar. Place the bowl over a pot of hot water.
The bottom of the bowl must touch the water. Cook over medium heat,
whisking constantly for 3 to 5 minutes, or until the yolk mixture is
light and fluffy and has reached 140 F. on an instant-read
thermometer. Place the bowl on the mixer stand and, with the wire
whip attachment in place, beat the mixture at medium-high speed until
it is thick and cool, about 5 minutes.

At low speed, beat in the dissolved gelatin mixture just until
combined. Using a large rubber spatula, fold the cooled white
chocolate into the mixture. Fold one-third of the whipped cream into
the mixture to lighten it. Fold in the remaining whipped cream. Cover
the mousse with plastic wrap and refrigerate for 15 minutes, or until
firm enough to pipe.

Assemble the dessert: Fill a pastry bag fitted with a medium star tip
(such as Ateco #5) with the mousse. Place a ginger-sesame tuile on a
dessert plate. Pipe some of the mousse onto the tuile. Top with a
second tuile. Repeat the layering process, until you have used 4
tuiles. Sprinkle the top tuile with confectioners' sugar. Place 3 of
the reserved apricots around the dessert and drizzle with apricot
purie as desired. Repeat with the remaining tuiles and mousse to make
4    servings.

:
Recipe By

