Title: WHITE-FLOUR SOURDOUGH STARTER
Categories: Breads
Yield: 3 Servings
2 c  Tepid (80) water
1 pk Yeast
1/2 ts Sugar
2 c  Flour
Mix the water, sugar and yeast until dissolved.  Beat in the flour
until the batter is smooth.  Pour into a clean 2 qt. jar and cover
with a cloth. Let stand at room temp. for 2 to 3 days or until
starter has a sharp, almost winy odor and is bubbly (it will be full
of lively bubbles after a short time and will continue to bubble,
more sedately, until it is sufficiently sour). Exact times can't be
given, as weather and temp affect the rate of fermentation.
TO USE:  If not used at once, cover the starter with a lid and
refrigerate it.  It will be lively enough to use for about 18 hrs; if
refrigerated longer, "feed" it lightly and let it become bubbly at
room temp - usually letting it stand overnight - before using it.
This tangy batter is the key ingredient of English Muffins and many
other sourdough breads.  This recipe makes 3 cups enough to make a
large batch of muffins, with enough left over to serve as a nucleus
for a future baking.  The starter keeps well in a covered jar in the
refrigerator so long as it is "fed" with a small amount of flour and
an equal amount of water about every 2 weeks - this keeps the yeasts
alive. Or freeze it for indefinite storage.  To revive it, feed it
after it thaws and let it stand at room temperature until bubbly
enough to use. If liquid gathers on the surface of stored starter,
stir it in before adding flour and water. Your starter will be good
so long as it responds to feeding and has a pleasantly odor.  If
neglected, it may develop a pink or greenish tinge and an unpleasant
odor.  If that should happen, start over. To increase a small amount
of leftover starter to a quantity large enough for a baking, add
flour and water in equal quantities, but never exceed the proportion
of a cup of flour to a cup of starter.  Let the mix ferment, lightly
covered, at room temp until very bubbly; then, if you need still more
starter, add more flour and water and ferment again.

