Title: WHITE CHOCOLATE RAVIOLI
Categories: Desserts, Chocolate
Yield: 8 Servings
3 oz White chocolate bars
-(Tobler), halved crosswise
1/2 c  Hazelnuts, toasted and
-husked - coarsely chopped
8    Mint sprigs
*** MOUSSE ***
8 oz Chocolate -extra bittersweet
-or semisweet, chopped
1/4 c  Butter - unsalted
2    Eggs, separated - at room
-temperature
1 pn Salt
1 pn Cream of tartar
4 tb Sugar
3/4 c  Whipping cream - well
-chilled
1 ts Vanilla
Bill Segui
FROM:

Number of Servings:   8

MOUSSE: Melt the chocolate and butter in top of a double boiler over
barely simmering water. Stir until smooth. Transfer to medium bowl.
Whisk in egg yolks. Beat egg whites, salt and cream of tartar in
another bowl until soft peaks form. Add 2 tablespoons sugar and beat
until stiff but not dry. Fold in chocolate. In another bowl, beat
cream with 2 tablespoons of sugar and vanilla until slightly
thickened. Fold into chocolate. Pour into metal bowl. Cover and chill
over night.

Chill ravioli mold in freezer. Preheat oven on lowest setting for 5
minutes. Turn off oven. Place white chocolate on baking sheets. Place
in turned off oven and let stand until soft enough to yield when
pressed with finger, about 5 minutes.

Roll one piece of chocolate out on a sheet of parchment paper to
flatten slightly. Lift chocolate off paper, using a thin knife if
necessary. Turn pasta machine to widest setting. Run chocolate
through. Adjust pasta machine to next narrower setting. Run chocolate
through the machine again.

Repeat, narrowing follers after each run until chocolate is 1/16 inch
thick. Quickly press chocolate into chilled ravioli mold.

Fill each ravioli with 1 to 1 1/2 tablespoons of mousse filling.
Repeat rolling with second piece of chocolate, resoftening in oven as
necessary. Complete ravioli. Seal with rolling pin. Invert mold,
pressing gently to release ravioli. Cut into separate pieces with
ravioli cutter or knife if necessary. Place on chilled baking sheet
and refrigerate.

Before serving, let chocolate ravioli stand at room temperature for 30
minutes. Arrange four ravioli on each plate. Sprinkle with nuts and
garnish with mint.

