Title: WHITE CHOCOLATE DEVILS
Categories: Cupcakes
Yield: 12 Servings
1 c  All-purpose flour
1 tb Unsweetened alkalized cocoa
Powder
3/4 ts Baking powder
1/8 ts Salt
4 tb Unsalted butter,softened
3/4 cn Granulated sugar
1 lg Egg
1 ts Vanilla extract
2 oz Unsweetened chocolate
Melted
1 c  Buttermilk
White chocolate filling
2 oz White chocolate,chopped
1/2 c  Heavy cream
Dark Chocolate Glaze
6 oz Semisweet chocolate --
Coarsely chopped
3/4 c  Heavy cream
2 ts Light corn syrup
White Chocolate Decoration
2 oz White chocolate -- coarsely
Chopped
Preheat oven to 350 deg.place baking rack in center of oven,line 12
muffin cups with cupcake papers. Into medium bowl,sift together the
flour,cocoa powder,baking soda and salt.Gently wisk the dry
ingredients together until blended;set aside. In a heavy-duty
electric mixer using the paddle attachment,beat the butter with the
sugar at medium speed until thoroughly blended,about 2 minutes. Beat
in the egg and vanilla;scrape down the sides of the bowl with a
spatula and beat for 1 minute,until well blended.Beat in the
chocolate.At low speed,beat in the buttermilk one-third at a
time,alternating it with the dry ingredients. Mix just until
blended,scraping down the side of the bowl as necessary. Divide the
batter among the prepared muffin cups and bake the cupcakes for 25 -30
minutes,until they spring back back when lightly touched. Cool
cupcakes in the pan for 5 minutes,then remove to a wire rack and cool
completely.

Making the white chocoalate filling:

Place the white cho colate in a stainless steel bowl,In a
saucepan,bring the heavy cream to a gentle boil. Remove the pan from
the heat and pour the hot cream over the whitechocolate.Let the
mixture stand for 30 minutes to melt the chocolate:whisk until
completely smooth.Cover the bowl and refrigerate the filling for at
least 4 hours,until Well chilled. Using a hand-held electric
mixer,whip the chilled white chocolate mixture until it reaches the
consistency of sour cream. With a small knife,cut a cone shaped
peice,3/4 inch in diameter,from the center of each cupcake.Remove the
the cone shaped piece of cupcake,and cut off the bottom of each
cone,leaving a round cap for each cupcake. Discard or eat(VBG) the
cone bottoms and retain the caps.  Fill pastry bag fitted with a
medium plain tip with the white chocolate filling.Pipe the filling
into the hole in each cupcake. Cover the filling with the reserved
caps. Place the filled cupcakes in a airtight container and place in
the refrigerator while making the glaze.

Dark Chocolate Glaze

Place the chocolate in athe bowl of a food processor fitted with the
metal chopping blades.Process the chocolate until finely ground,20
to-30 seconds. In a small saucepan,bring the cream and the corn syrup
to a gentle boil.With the motor runnign,poor the hot cream through
the feed tube onto the chocolatee. Process until smooth,about 10
seconds. Pour the glaze into a medium bowl. Cover the bowl with
plastic wrap and refrigerate for 30 minutes,until slightly thickened.
Remove the cupcakes from the refrigerator.Dip the top of each cupcake
into the glaze and allow the excess glaze to drip off. Place the
cupcakes in the refrigerator for 10 minutes,to set the glaze. Remove
the cupcakes from the refrigeratorand re-dip the top of each cupcake
in the glaze. Set the glazed cupcakes aside at room temperature. Melt
the white chocolate according to the directions: In microwave ..Place
chopped chocolate in microwave-safe ccontainer and microwave at
Medium for 1 1/2 to 4 minutes,until chocolate turns shiny. Remove
from microwave and stir until completely melted.stir about 1 1/2
minutes. Fill a small pastry bag or parchment cone fitted with a
small plain tip withthe white chocolate.Drizzle athe chocolate in a
zigzag pattern over the top of the glazed cupcakes. Chill before
serving... Sorry, I just shredded the white chocolate for garnish.....

These are very good,very rich but wonderful when you want to impress
the crowd... Louise

: From the Chocolatier
Recipe By

