Title: WHOLE ROAST SUCKLING PIG
Categories: Meats
Yield: 12 Servings
1    Whole suckling pig
-(10-14 lb), oven-ready
-(have your butcher clean
- and trim it)
1/3 c  Plain distilled vinegar
1 1/2 c  Carrots, chopped or sliced
1 1/2 c  Celery, chopped or sliced
1 1/2 c  Onions, chopped or sliced
1/3 c  Safflower oil
1 tb Coarse salt
1 ts Thyme
Stuffing (optional) *
- *(instead of vegetables)
Olive oil
1 c  Stock
1 c  Wine
1 sm Red apple
1 bn Watercress
2 tb Flour
2 tb Butter
THE DAY BEFORE COOKING, WASH pig inside and out; soak it in very cold
water with vinegar for a few hours. This freshens and whitens the
meat. If you pig is frozen, it can also defrost during this soaking.
Over a medium heat cook the carrots, celery and onions in the oil for
a good 10 minutes, stirring occasionally. The onions should become
somewhat translucent, the carrots slightly caramelized. Add salt and
thyme. Dry the pig thoroughly inside and out. You may stuff the pig
with the vegetables at this time; however, if you use a conventional
stuffing, such as one for a turkey, wait until just before cooking
and make certain that the pig and stuffing are at room temperature.
The easiest way to close the opening is to use an ice pick or an
upholstery needle to punch rows of holes about an inch apart on both
sides of the stomach flaps. Then lace it up with thick string just as
you would a shoe. You may also use skewers and string as you would
for a turkey. Because protein firms as it cooks, the pig will stay in
whatever position you place it. It should resemble a dog resting on
its haunches. Place the pig in the roasting pan; it may have to be
placed diagonally. Tuck the hind legs close to the stomach on either
side; tie them together with string under the stomach if needed. The
forelegs should be pointing straight ahead (also tied together so
they won't spread out) and the head resting between them. Place a
small piece of wood (like a child's block) or a piece of bunched-up
foil in the mouth, opening it as wide as you can. Twist the tail into
a curl and secure it with string or tape. Place crumpled aluminum
foil in the eye sockets (some people place marbles). At this point
you may cover it with plastic wrap and refrigerate it. Before cooking
the pig, let it come to room temperature. Preheat oven to 450F. With
the oil, thoroughly baste every inch of the pig, including the head,
legs and tail. Out of aluminum foil make little covers for the ears
and tail. If your pig hangs over the pan, use heavy-duty foil to
extend the pan so that any juices will be collected. Place the pig in
the oven for 30 minutes. Remove the pig quickly, shutting the oven
door, baste with oil again and return to the oven. Then reduce the
temperature to 350F. Continue basting with oil every 20 minutes 4 to
5 more times (for a total of 2 hours). If the ears and tail haven't
browned, remove the aluminum covers for the last 20 minutes. The
total cooking time will be between 2 and 2 1/2 hours. The cooking
time is less because it is not fully stuffed; if it were, it would
take an hour longer. (Approximately 10 minutes per pound lightly
stuffed or unstuffed; 15 minutes per pound fully stuffed.) The pig is
done when the temperature of the thigh reaches 165F (trichinae are
killed when the internal temperature reaches 139F for a period of 10
minutes). When done, it may easily rest for an hour under foil or in
a turned-off oven. To serve, make a garland for the pig's neck by
stringing together sprigs of watercress. Make certain your apple is
nicely polished. Enlist some help and very carefully slide the pig
onto the platter or carving board it will be presented on. It is
rather fragile at this point and can even break in half. Make a sauce
by skimming the fat off the juices in the roasting pan. Place the
roasting pan over 2 burners, add the stock and the wine and bring to
the simmer. Stir to dissolve all the roasting juices coagulated on
the bottom and continue cooking about 10 minutes. If you wish to
thicken the sauce, whisk in 2 tablespoons of flour that have been
blended with 2 tablespoons of butter, bring the sauce back to the
boil and boil for 2 minutes, stirring. Remove any remaining foil,
string or skewers. Place the apple in the pig's mouth. Place the
watercress garland around its neck and bring it to the table.

