Title: WIENER KRINGLE
Categories: None
Yield: 1 Servings
3 pk Active dry yeast
3/4 c  Warm (not hot) water
2    Eggs
7 tb Granulated sugar
1/2 ts Ground cardamom
1 1/4 c  Milk
6 c  Sifted enriched all purpose
-flour
3/4 lb Butter or margarine
1 1/2 c  Jam or seedless raisins or
-3 c. almond paste
3/4 c  Crushed lump sugar
3/4 c  Chopped nuts
Sprinkle dry yeast on water; stir until dissolved.  In large bowl,
beat eggs with hand beater until foamy; set aside 2 Tbsp.; Add sugar
to eggs; beat until thick. Stir in yeast, cardamom and milk. Then
stir in 5 c. flour, mixing with hands, if necessary.  On large
floured board, roll out dough into 18 X 12 inch rectangle. With knife
or cheesecutter, cut 1/4 lb of butter into thin slices; place on half
of dough; fold other half on top. Using palms of hands, firmly press
down on dough, turning it on board as necessary, until another
rectangle is formed. Repeat with second 1/4 lb of butter; then repeat
again with last 1/4 lb of butter. Now, sprinkling board and hands
with flour as necessary, continue folding and pressing dough with
hands until all the butter has been worked in and no specks of yellow
are showing.  (This is easier if, every now and then, you roll out
dough with rolling pin into a large rectangle; fold in quarters; and
press out again.)

Now divide dough into thirds. Gently pull one third into a rope about
34 inches long.  On greased 17 X 14 inch cookie sheet, place rope in
circle, with ends 2 inches apart. With palm of hand, flatten dough to
form collar about 4 inches wide.  Down center of collar, spoon 1/2 c.
jam or raisins, or spread 1 c. almond paste. Pull one edge of collar
up over jam; moisten with water; pull other edge up on top; press
gently to seal.

Carefully form collar into pretzel shape.  Make 2 more "pretzels"
with rest of dough.  Brush top of each with reserved beaten egg;
sprinkle with crushed sugar and nuts; press into dough. Let rise in
warm place (80 to 85 F) until double in bulk.  Bake at 425 F 20
minutes, or until brown. Brush with melted butter; cool on cake rack.

Marguerite B. Christensen Lodge 84 Newark, New Jersey

(I have no idea who she is.  She is the person who is given credit
for the recipe)

