Title: WILD MUSHROOM CROSTINI - MARTHA STEWART LIVIN
Categories: Appetizers, Vegetables, Soup/stews
Yield: 15 Servings
1 oz Dried porcini mushrooms
3    Cloves garlic, peeled
1/2 c  Flat-leaf parsley, chopped
1/2 ts Kosher salt
1    Long Italian or French
-bread, sliced 1/4 inch
-thick on the diagonal
Extra-virgin olive oil,
-for bread
3 tb Unsalted butter, or as
-needed
3 tb Olive oil, or as needed
2    Shallots, peeled and finely
-chopped
1/2 tb Fresh thyme leaves, about
-5 sprigs
Salt & freshly ground pepper
1/2 c  Dry white wine
2 lb Assorted wild mushrooms,
-such as shiitake, cremini,
-oyster, and chanterelle,
-cut into 1/8-inch slices
1. In a bowl, combine dried porcini and 1 1/2 C hot water. Let sit
until soft, about 15 minutes. Remove from soaking liquid. Carefully
pour off liquid, leaving sediment in bowl; reserve liquid. Coarsely
chop porcini.

2. Chop together garlic, parsley, and kosher salt. Make crostini by
grilling or toasting bread under broiler. Brush lightly with extra-
virgin olive oil. Season with salt and pepper.

3. In a large saute pan, heat 1 T butter and 1 T oil over medium-low
heat. Add porcini, shallots, and thyme and cook, stirring often,
until shallots wilt, about 10 minutes. Season well with salt and
pepper. Add wine and cook over medium-high heat until liquid is
almost completely reduced, 5 to 7 minutes. Add reserved porcini
liquid and cook until almost completely reduced again, 5 to 7
minutes. Remove from heat, transfer to a small bowl, and set aside.

4. Rinse skillet, dry, and return to high heat. Starting with the
firmest, cook mushrooms in 2 batches using a T of butter and oil for
each batch. Season well with salt and pepper, and reduce heat to
medium. Cook, stirring often, until mushrooms are nearly tender, 5 to
10 minutes. Keep in a large bowl while second batch cooks.

5. Return all the mushrooms to the pan. Add porcini and parsley
mixtures. Cook over medium-high heat until garlic gives off an aroma,
2 to 3 minutes. Adjust seasonings and remove pan from heat.

6. Transfer mushrooms to a bowl and serve with crostini, or spoon a
bit of the mushroom mixture on each slice of crostini and arrange on
a plate.

Martha Stewart Living/August/94  Scanned & fixed by Di Pahl

