Title: WINTER VEGETABLE PURE W/ SWEET SPICES & CRISP
Categories: Vegetables, Mine
Yield: 4 Servings
1 tb Butter
1 sm Onion, peeled and diced
2    Garlic clove(s)
-peeled and chopped
1 sm Butternut squash, peeled
-seeded and diced
2 sm (or 1 large) acorn squash
-peeled, seeded, diced
2 lg Turnips, peeled and diced
2    Carrots, peeled
-cut in 1" rounds
1 1/2 c  Chicken stock
1/2 ts Dried thyme
1    Bay leaf
1/2 ts Ground cinnamon
1/8 ts Grated nutmeg
1/4 ts Ground ginger
1 pn Cayenne pepper
1 pn Allspice
1 ts Kosher salt
Freshly ground pepper
Lemon juice
1/2 c  Heavy cream or
2 tb Butter (opt)
MMMMM--------------------------SHALLOTS-------------------------------
3 lg Shallots
Vegetable oil
-or olive oil
-for frying
Salt to taste
In a 3-quart saucepan, melt the butter over medium heat. Add the
onion and garlic and sweat them until translucent, but not browned,
about 5 minutes.

Add the butternut and acorn squash, turnips and carrots. Cover and
sweat for 5 minutes, stirring occasionally.

Add the stock and the thyme, bay leaf, cinnamon, nutmeg, ginger,
cayenne, allspice, salt and pepper. Bring to a boil over high heat,
lower the heat to a simmer and cook for about 30 minutes, until the
vegetables are soft. Stir occasionally.

While the vegetables are cooking, prepare the shallots. Trim off both
ends, cut them in half lengthwise, then thinly slice them lengthwise
to get half moon pieces. Heat  inch of oil in a 10-inch frying pan
over medium heat. Fry the shallots in two batches until golden brown
(the shallot should sizzle on contact with the oil), about 30
seconds. Drain on paper towels and salt lightly. The shallots will
get crispier when then cool and may be made a day ahead just cover
them well and keep them at room temperature.

Pure the vegetables in a food processor or blender, adding a little
cream or butter if desired. Season with a squeeze of lemon juice,
then taste and adjust the seasonings. Serve in a shallow bowl
sprinkled with the crispy shallots.

Sides by Melicia Phillips ISBN 0-517-59687-3 pg 40-41

