Title: WOK-SEARED-DUCK SALAD
Categories: Poultry, Salads, Main dish
Yield: 6 Servings
MMMMM---------------------------SALAD--------------------------------
1/3 c  Matchstick strips fresh
-ginger (from a 3-inch
-piece), plus 4 nickel-size
-slices, smashed
6 tb Soy sauce
3 tb Mushroom soy sauce*
6 tb Sake or dry sherry
2    Scallions including green
-tops, cut into 1-inch
-pieces
1 1/2 tb Chopped cilantro leaves and
-stems
2 lb Boneless, skinless duck
-breasts
1/3 c  Sliced blanched almonds
1 c  Cooking oil
2/3 lb Bite-size pieces of mixed
-lettuces, such as fris E9e,
-mizuna and radicchio (about
-4 quarts)
MMMMM----------------------GINGER DRESSING---------------------------
1 tb Grated fresh ginger
4 ts Orange juice
1/2 ts Grated orange zest
2 ts Balsamic vinegar
1/2 ts Soy sauce
1 pn Fresh-ground black pepper
6 tb Oil reserved from frying
-ginger
*Available at Asian markets

1. In a shallow glass dish or stainless-steel pan, combine the smashed
ginger slices, the soy sauce, mushroom soy sauce, sake, scallions and
cilantro. Add the duck breasts in a single layer and turn to coat.
Marinate at room temperature for 1 hour, turning once.

2. Heat the oven to 350 B0. Spread the almonds on a baking sheet and
toast until golden brown, about 8 minutes. Let cool.

3. Meanwhile, in a small frying pan, heat the oil over moderate heat
to 375 B0. Remove the pan from the heat, add the ginger matchsticks
and stir just until golden, about 10 seconds. With a slotted spoon,
remove the ginger and drain on paper towels. Let the oil cool and
then strain and set aside.

4. Heat a wok or large frying pan over high heat until a bead of water
evaporates on contact. Add 2 teaspoons of the reserved ginger oil and
swirl to coat the pan. Remove half of the duck breasts from the
marinade and add them to the wok in a single layer. Sear the duck
until nicely browned, about 2 minutes. Turn and sear the other side,
about 1 minute. Turn the breasts again and cook until medium-rare, 3
to 5 minutes longer. Remove the duck breasts and let stand for 3
minutes. Repeat with the remaining duck.

5. Slice the duck breasts on the diagonal into 1/4-inch strips and
transfer to a medium bowl. Whisk the Ginger Dressing, add 3
tablespoons to the duck and toss to coat. In a large bowl, toss the
greens with the remaining dressing. Mound the salad on six large
plates and arrange the duck strips on top. Sprinkle with the toasted
almonds and fried ginger matchsticks.

Ginger Dressing (Makes about 1/2 cup)

1. Put the ginger in a strainer set over a small bowl and press
firmly to extract the juice. (You should have about 1-1/2 teaspoons.)

2. Add the orange juice and zest, the balsamic vinegar, soy sauce and
pepper. Add the oil slowly, whisking. The smokiness of the duck and
the flavors of ginger and orange suggest pairing the dish with a
full-bodied California pinot noir or a fruity zinfandel.

