Title: WON TON #1
Categories: Appetizers
Yield: 6 Servings
1 1/2 c  Flour
1 ts Salt
1    Egg, beaten
2 tb Cold water
Filling:
1/4 lb Chopped pork
1/4 lb Chopped raw shrimp
2 ts Finely chopped onions
2 tb Soy sauce
2 tb Chopped button
Mushrooms (optional)
1/2 ts Salt
1 ts Cornstarch
Sift the flour and salt in a mixing bowl. Add egg and water and mix
thoroughly. Knead dough until smooth; place dough in refrigerator for
1 hour. Place on floured board and roll until paper thin with rolling
pin. Dust dough with flour and cut into 3-inch squares and stack.

Combine all the filling ingredients and mix well. You are now ready
to make the won ton.

How To Wrap Won Ton: Hold square won ton skin on palm of left hand.
Place 1/2 teaspoon filling in the corner of square closest to your
wrist. Fold this corner over the filling, then roll toward the center
of square so it resembles a triangle. Join the two rolled ends
together with a tiny bit of filling. There are many ways to wrap won
ton, but this is the most simple. It is now ready for soup or deep
frying.

Won Ton In Soup: Boil a large pot of water and add a little salt.
Drop won ton a few at a time to cook. When the won ton floats to the
top, the meat is cooked. Remove from the water with a large slotted
spoon and drain. 2 qt. chicken broth 1/4 tsp. gourmet powder 1 tsp.
soy sauce 2 stalks green onions, chopped Chinese parsley salt to
taste few drops sesame oil (optional)

Bring chicken broth, gourmet powder, soy sauce and sesame oil to a
boil. Add salt to taste. Add cooked won ton and boil just enough to
heat won ton. Do not overcook. Serve in a bowl. Garnish with diced
green onions or parsley. Cooked chicken or barbecue pork may be added
on top.

Fried Won Ton: Heat about 3 to 4-inches of vegetable oil in a deep
pot or frying pan. Put in wrapped won ton and fry to a golden brown.
Delicious for cocktail parties.

Visit our recipe database at http://www.cookbooks.com We have a large
(over 1 million recipe) database There is not much which we DON'T
have in this database! Ken Gregg - kgregg@cookbooks.com skins:

