Title: XOI THAP CAM (SWEET RICE WITH MEAT~ SHRIMP~ A
Categories: New, Text, Import
1/2 lb Chinese sausage diced
Yield: 4 Servings
3/4    -inch pieces -- ( available
in Markets , there is no
substitute)
:
:
2 TB plus 2 teaspoons vegetable
oil
:
1/4 lb boneless pork chops, -- 2
thin pieces at least
:
1/4 c  chopped green onions
1 ts fish sauce
1 ts thin soy sauce
1/2 ts sugar
Black pepper
For the rice:
:
:
2 c  sweet or glutinous rice
3 c  water

Place rice in a colander and rinse under cold water. In a large pot
bring water to a boil, and add the rice. Stir once and watch the pot
for about 1 minute to make sure the water doesn't boil over. When the
water starts bubbling, cover and remove from the heat, and drain the
excess water from the pot. Return the pot to the heat, and cook for
20 minutes. Remove the pot from the heat, uncover and fluff with a
fork. Keep it warm and fluff it again right before serving.

For the shrimp:
1/3    cup dried shrimp 1 cup cold water

In a small sauce pan, place the dried shrimp and cold water, and
bring to a boil. Cover and simmer for 30 minutes. Drain and rinse
under cold water. Dice the shrimp and place in a bowl and set aside.

In a dry saute pan brown the Chinese sausage until brown on all sides.
Remove and place in the bowl with the shrimp. In the same saute pan,
heat the 2 teaspoons oil and fry the pork chops until brown on both
sides. Remove the pork chops and place in the bowl with the shrimp.
Meanwhile, heat 2 tablespoons of oil in a large wok over a high
flame. Add the scallions and quickly cook for 3 minutes or until
softened. Then add the pork, shrimp, and sausage, and fry for 1
minute, stirring well, then add the fish sauce, soy sauce, sugar, and
black pepper. Continue cooking for 3 minutes. Meanwhile re-fluff your
rice and place in a large bowl. Add the meat mixture to the rice,
and, mix together. Press this mixture into a 8' round baking pan. It
can then be turned out onto a serving platter and cut into 8 wedges.
Sprinkle with chopped green onions and a drizzle of the Nuoc Cham.

Yield: 8 servings

:ESSENCE OF EMERIL SHOW#EE2202
Recipe By

Date: Wed, 30 Oct 1996 11:05:49
~0500

