Title: YAM CURRY
Categories: Vegetables, Sept.
Yield: 4 Servings
1 lb Tender yams
1    To 2 Tbsp salt
3 c  Vegetable oil for deep
Frying
2    In fresh ginger root
1    Garlic clove
2    To 3 Tbsp  vegetable oil
1 ts Cumin seeds
2    Green cardamoms
1    Bay leaf
4    Peppercorns
1    Inch stick cinnamon
1 ts Turmeric
1/2 ts Chili powder (or use cayenne
Pepper)
1 ts Ground coriander
1/2 ts Garam masala (optional)
To taste  salt
4 oz Fresh tomatoes (or use 8 oz
Canned tomatoes)
4 tb Yogurt
1 1/2    Cups water
1 tb Chopped coriander leaves
(cilantro)
The yams in this dish are cooked in a sauce very  much like that
traditionally used  for meat. Serve with chapatis and rice. The
recipe is derived from one  in The Hamlyn Curry Cookbook, by Meera
Taneja, which I recommend highly.

(1)  Peel the yams, cut them into 1 inch  cubes, place in a colander
and sprinkle liberally with salt. Let stand 10-15 minutes, then dry
on paper towels.

(2)  Meanwhile, finely  chop  the  onion,  ginger, and garlic, and
roughly chop the tomatoes. Heat the il over a moderate flame, add the
cumin seed, and cook until they begin to splutter. Add the chopped
onion, ginger, and garlic. Cook until the onion is a rich golden
color. Add all the spices and season with salt to taste. Cook a few
seconds more, and then add the tomatoes. Let this cook while you
continue as below.

(3)  Heat the oil for deep frying to  350  deg.  F and cook the yam
cubes, a few at a time, until golden brown. Drain on absorbent
kitchen paper. Set aside.

(4)  Add the yogurt to the tomato mixture, and continue to cook until
the oil begins to separate out. Add the water and bring to a boil.
Let boil a few minutes, then add the yam cubes, reduce heat, and
simmer, covered, for about 25 minutes.

(5)  Serve hot, garnished with the chopped coriander.

Difficulty: easy to moderate.  Time: 1 hour preparation, 30 minutes
cooking.  Precision: measure the ingredients.

From: ucismas@issc.unocal.com (Melyssa S.).  rfvc Digest V94 Issue
#208, Sept. 26, 1994.Formatted by Sue Smith, S.Smith34,
TXFT40A@Prodigy.com using MMCONV.

