Title: YOUNG ARTICHOKES & FAVA BEANS STEWED IN OLI
Categories: Vegetables, Ceideburg 2
Yield: 4 Servings
16 sm Artichokes, or
6 md Artichokes
2    To 2 1/2 pounds young fava
-beans, shelled
1/2 c  Olive oil
6    Garlic cloves, peeled,
-minced
2 tb Chopped fresh winter savory
2 tb Chopped fresh thyme
1/2 ts Salt
1/2 ts Freshly ground black pepper
At no other time of year can this dish be replicated successfully++-
it epitomizes the tastes of late spring in Provence. Straight from
the garden or the open market come either the small, violet
artichokes or burgeoning green ones, along with pods of favas barely
swollen with soft, tender beans.  Winter savory, which grows wild on
the hillsides, has just put forth its new spring flush and is full of
resinous flavor. Serve with the freshest, crustiest bread possible
for sopping up the juices.

Prepare artichokes (see below), then cut small ones in half, larger
ones into quarters or sixths; pat dry. Remove the skins from the
shelled favas.

Heat the olive oil in a saucepan over medium high heat. Add garlic and
artichoke pieces; saute, stirring frequently, for 4 or 5 minutes. Add
the fava beans and continue to cook, stirring often, for 10 minutes.
The artichokes will begin to change color to a deep olive green, but
the favas will stay bright green.

Add the winter savory, thyme, salt and pepper.  Stir well, reduce
heat to very low, cover, and simmer until the artichokes are tender,
about 15 to 20 minutes.

Serves 4 to 6.

PER SERVING:  275 calories, 7 g protein, 24 g carbohydrate, 19 g fat
(3 g saturated), 0 mg cholesterol, 263 mg sodium, 9 g fiber.

GENERAL PREPARATION OF ARTICHOKES:

Using kitchen shears, cut off the tops (with their sharp spikes) of
the side and bottom leaves.  Trim the base of the artichoke.

Using a large, sharp chef's knife, cut off the top inch of the
artichoke.

Unless you are going to stuff the artichoke, cut it in half
lengthwise. With the edge of a small sharp spoon or with a small,
sharp knife, scoop out the exposed thistle. If you are going to stuff
it, however, do not cut in half; carefully scoop out the center
leaves along with the thistle.

Put the fresh-trimmed artichokes in acidulated water until ready to
proceed with recipe.

From the San Francisco Chronicle, 4/21/93.

Posted by Stephen Ceideberg; May 11 1993.

