Title: ZARZUELO DE MARISCOS (SPICY SHELLFISH STEWS)
Categories: Seafood, Soups/stews, Cuba, Update
Yield: 6 Servings
1/4 c  Pure Spanish olive oil
3 ea Cloves garlic, finely
-chopped
1 md Onion, finely chopped
1 md Green bell pepper, seeded
-and finely chopped
1/4 c  Finely chopped smoked ham
1 c  Drained and chopped canned
-whole tomatoes
1 ea Bay leaf
1/4 c  Drained pimientos, finely
-chopped
1/4 ts Dried oregano
1 lb Swordfish steak, skinned
-and cut into chunks
1/4 c  Dry sherry
1/4 c  Dry white wine
2 c  Fish stock (see
-CUBA03.TXT), clam juice,
-or water
2 ts Salt
1/4 ts Powdered saffron or 3 to 4
-saffron threads, crushed
12 ea Mussels, scrubbed under
-cold running water,
-debearded, and
soaked 10 minutes in lightly salted water to cover by several inches
(if mussels disgorge considerable sand, repeat the soaking process)
12 clams scrubbed under cold, running water and soaked 30 minutes in
lightly salted water to cover by several inches (if clams disgorge
considerable sand, repeat the soaking process), optional 3 raw
lobster tails, shelled and cut into thirds 12 large raw shrimp,
shelled and deveined, with the tails left on 12 raw sea scallops, cut
in half, or 24 bay scallops 1/2 pound fresh lump crabmeat, picked
over for cartilage 3 tablespoons finely minced fresh parsley Lime or
lemon wedges for garnish 1. In a large, heavy saucepan, heat the oil
until fragrant over low heat, then add the garlic, onion, bell
pepper, and ham, and cook, stirring, for several minutes, until the
onion is tender. Add the tomatoes, bay leaf, pimientos, and oregano,
and cook until the mixture has thickened, 10 to 15 minutes. (Can be
made ahead up to this point and refrigerated. Reheat to continue with
the recipe.) 2. Add the swordfish, sherry, wine, stock, salt, and
saffron, stir to blend, and bring to a boil, uncovered, over high
heat. Add the mussels and clams, reduce the heat to medium, cover,
and cook 6 to 8 minutes. Then add the lobster, shrimp, scallops, and
crabmeat, and cook, covered, 5 minutes. Remove and discard any
mussels or clams that do not open, correct the seasonings, transfer
the stew to a serving bowl, and serve hot, garnished with minced
parsley and lime wedges and accompanied by Arroz Amarillo (see
CUBA07.TXT). Makes 6 To 8 ServingsSubj: Langosta a la Catalana
ZARZUELO DE MARISCOS

