Title: ZILZIL ALECHA (BEEF STRIPS BRAISED IN GREEN P
Categories: Soups/stews, Ethiopia
Yield: 4 Servings
To serve 4 to 6.
3 md Green bell peppers, seeded
-and deribbed, 2 coarsely
chopped and 1 cut into strips about 1/2 inch wide and 2 inches long 4
teaspoons finely chopped fresh hot chilies, preferably green 1
tablespoon finely chopped garlic 1 tablespoon finely chopped fresh
ginger root 1 teaspoon turmeric 1/4 teaspoon ground cardamom 2
teaspoons salt 1/4 teaspoon white pepper 1/4 cup dry red or white
wine 1/2 to 3/4 cup niter kebbeh 2 pounds boneless sirloin steak,
trimmed of excess fat, sliced 1/2 inch thick and cut into strips
about 1/4 inch wide and 2 inches long 2 cups finely chopped onions
Combine the 2 coarsely chopped green peppers and the chilies, garlic,
ginger root, turmeric, cardamom, salt, white pepper and wine in the
jar of an electric blender. Blend at high speed for 30 seconds, then
turn off the machine, scrape down the sides of the jar with a rubber
spatula, and blend again until the mixture is a smooth puree. In a
heavy 10 to 12 inch skillet, heat 1/2 cup of the niter kebbeh over
moderate heat until a drop of water flicked into it splutters
instantly. Brown the strips of beef in the skillet, a handful at a
time, turning them about with a slotted spoon and regulating the heat
so that they colour richly and evenly on all sides without burning.
As they brown, transfer the beef strips to a plate.  Pour the
remaining fat in the skillet into a measuring cup and, if necessary,
add enough additional niter kebbeh to make exactly 1/2 cup. Set
aside. Subj: 3 Ethiopian Stews part 2 Date: 95-11-19 18:09:42 EST
From: Mrarchway Wash and dry the skillet, then drop in the onions and
cook over low heat for 5 or 6 minutes, until they are soft and dry.
Shake the pan and stir the onions constantly to prevent them from
burning; if necessary, reduce the heat or remove the casserole from
the stove occassionally to let it cool for a few moments before
returning it to the heat. Pour in the reserved cooking fat and, when
it begins to splutter, add the green pepper strips.  Stirring
constantly, cook for 2 to 3 minutes, until the pepper is soft. Add
the reserved green pepper puree and, still stirring, bring to a boil.
Return the beef and the liquid that has accumulated around it to the
skillet and turn it about in the sauce to coat the pieces evenly.
Reduce the heat to low, cover partially, and simmer for 6 to 8
minutes, or until the beef is cooked to your taste. Serve it at once
from a heated platter or bowl. Zilzil Alecha (Beef Strips Braise in
Green Pepper Sauce)

