Title: BEANS & SAUSAGE (USDA)
Categories: Freezes wel, Usda
Yield: 24 Servings
4 lb Bulk pork sausage
1 c  Instant minced onion
1/3 c  Sweet pepper flakes
108 oz Kidney beans -- (No. 10
Can)*
105 oz Tomatoes -- (No. 10 can)
2 tb Salt
2 tb Chili powder
1/8 ts Garlic powder
1/2 c  Flour -- unsifted
1/2 c  Water
* A No. 10 can is the equivalent of 7 (16-oz) cans of kidney beans or
4 (28-oz) cans.

Line four 8x8-inch baking pans with heat-resistant freezer wrap. Allow
enough extra wrap to fold over top. Use one pan for each six servings
or one-fourth of the recipe. Do not line pans for food to be served
without freezing.

Crumble sausage; brown with onion and pepper flakes. Drain off fat.
Add beans, tomatoes, salt, chili powder, and garlic powder. Mix flour
and water until smooth. Stir into sausage mixture. Simmer about 30
minutes or until thickened, stirring occasionally.

TO SERVE WITHOUT FREEZING:  Serve hot mixture over cooked rice.

TO FREEZE:  Pour each part to be frozen into a baking pan. Pack food
tightly to avoid air pockets.  Cool for 30 minutes at room
temperature. Complete wrapping by pulling paper up over top of food.
Put edges of wrap together and fold several times so paper lies
directly on top of food. Fold ends of freezer wrap over the top and
seal with freezer tape. Label with name of food, date of freezing,
and last date the food should be used for best eating quality (about
4 months). Freeze immediately for 10 to 12 hours before removing
packages from the pans.

TO HEAT FROZEN FOOD:  Preheat oven to 400B0 F. (hot). Remove freezer
wrap. Place food in baking pan.  Heat 1 1/2 hours or until mixture is
bubbly at edges and center is hot. Serve over cooked rice.

~ - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

Serving Ideas : Serve over hot rice.

NOTES : This recipe is for 24 servings (about 1 cup each). Directions
are given for dividing the prepared food into four parts of six
servings each. One part may be completely cooked and served at the
time of preparation. The remaining parts may be frozen.

"Freezing Combination Main Dishes"  by Meredith Robinson and Lois
Fulton (Consumer and Food Economics Institute, Agriculture Research
Service) USDA Home and Garden Bulletin No. 40, 1973 (Stock Number
0100-02712). MasterCook electronic format by Rosie Winters.

: Freezing Combination Main Dishes (Robinson & Fulton,
Recipe By
1973)

