Title: BEEF STOCK - MASTER CHEFS
Categories: Basics, Stock, Masterchefs, New york
Yield: 2 Quarts
2 tb Oil, vegetable
6 lb Bones, beef, meaty
2 md Onions, trimmed, quartered
-don't peel
2 lg Carrots, peeled, trimmed
-coarsely chopped
2    Celery, stalks, trimmed,
-coarsely chopped
1    Leek, trimmed, halved
-lengthwise, coarsely
-chopped, (white and
-green parts)
4    Garlic, cloves, unpeeled
1 bn Parsley, stems
2 c  Water, plus more as needed
2 md Tomatoes, fresh or canned,
-cored, coarsely chopped
1/2 ts Thyme, dried, or
3    Thyme, sprigs
2    Bay leaf
2    Cloves
3/4 ts Salt, coarse
8    Peppercorns
Preheat oven to 450 degrees F.  Put the oil in a roasting pan and heat
briefly in the oven.  Add the bones to the oil in the pan, toss to
coat and roast for 35 minutes.  Add the onions, carrots, celery,
leek, garlic, and parsley, tossing them all to coat with fat.  Roast
30 minutes longer. Remove the pan from the oven and transfer the
bones and vegetables to a clean stockpot.  Drain off as much of the
fat as possible. Place the roasting pan over medium-high heat (use 2
burners if necessary), and add 2 cups of cold water and boil briefly.
Scrape up all of the browned bits into the water.  Transfer the
liquid to the stock pot and add enough cold water to cover.  Bring
slowly to a boil, skimming off all of the froth that forms.  Lower
the heat and add tomatoes, thyme, bay leaves, cloves, and salt.
Simmer uncovered for 6 to 8 hours adding water as necessary just to
cover the ingredients. Skim whenever necessary. Add peppercorns for
the last 15 minutes of the simmering.

Strain the "soup" into a large bowl through a colander lined with a
double layer of dampened cheesecloth.   Gently press the solids to
extract all of the liquid, and discard the solids.  Pour the stock
into containers for storage and label and date them. The stock will
"keep" for up to 3 days in a refrigerator, and up to 6 months in a
freezer.

Source:  New York's Master Chefs, Bon Appetit Magazine, Written by
Richard Sax, Photographs by Nancy McFarland The Knapp Press, Los
Angeles, 1985

