Title: BEEF BRISKET FROM KIP
Categories: Main
Yield: 1 Servings
8 lb Beef Brisket
All-South Bareque Rub
Well, I fixed my first brisket this past weekend. Thanks to all bbq
list folks for the helpful suggestions and recipes that made this
endeavor a success.  Most recommendations to me, posts and e-mail,
were centered on the importance of slicing the brisket against the
grain. Bear suggested baked beans for a side dish and I fixed that. I
had some input from the southwestern part of the US on side dishes,
but, unfortunately, many of the ingredients necessary for these
recipes are not available here in WV.

Here is the way I did it:  7:00 AM Friday morning. Unwrapped the
brisket (8 lbs.) and washed it down. Rubbed in the "All South Rub,"
not too heavy, and as per suggestions of Dwight's recent post, put
his heavy coating of brown sugar to it.  On to the H20, gas fired
bullet smoker at 8:00 AM. Adjusted the flame as low as possible + a
bit. One big, fist sized chunk of (1 hour soaked ) hickory. Water pan
full. Put on the brisket, fat side up.

At about 12:00 noon I checked it out and found that the water level
was ok. and added, and maybe I'll not do this again, added another
big chunk of hickory. Checked the water level again at 3:00. It was
ok. At 5:00 PM (10 hours later) I took it off and put in a roaster
pan with about a half cup of water. It was a nice brown color. Capped
off the roaster pan with aluminium foil and put it in the
refrigerator. That's it for day one. LAZY - Q,  huh?

Saturday. 8:00 AM . In the oven at 185 degrees until 6:00 PM then
took it out to cool for slicing. Yes, my mouth is watering from the
aromas in the kitchen. By the way, in the mid-afternoon, I fixed a
barbeque sauce, to serve on the side with the brisket. See Carey
Starzinger's bbq sauce # 23.

Now, at 6:30 sharp, the totally unexpected, drop-in guests from
out-of-town hit the door, drank all of our beer and stayed until
11:30. At this time, 6:30 PM, just to be sociable, I quit drinking
beer, so they could have it and I switch to scotch. At about 8:30,
when I was finally able to face the handwriting on the wall, and
still fairly sober, I did manage to refrigerate the complete dinner
and kept on smiling at the guests. Oh yes, I did invite them to have
dinner with us, but was declined.So we hit the sack hungry and a
little grumpy.

Sunday. 4:00 PM. Take the brisket, the beans, the dipping sauce out
of the refrigerator and let them warm up on the counter for about a
hour. Pre-heat the oven to 175 and put in the brisket at 5:30. I
finally serve it at 7:00 and it is perfect! Finding the grain is no
problem.

You can cut this baby with a fork. If I made a mistake any mistakes
at all, I might cut back on that last chunk of hickory. It was just a
bit more smoky than necessary, so the wife suggested. I agree. I like
a light smoke taste.

Anyway, if you have a water smoker, don't believe that you can't fix a
respectable brisket. Go for it.

: Kip Jones
Recipe By

