Title: CHRISTMAS TIRAMISU
Categories: Desserts
Yield: 10 Servings
1 lb Mascarpone or soft cream
Cheese
3/4 c  Sugar
8 lg Egg yolks
1/2 c  Sweet wine
2 c  Expresso or very strong
Black coffee (approx)
9 oz Ladyfingers or 14 oz. angel
Food or sponge cake, thinly
Sliced
1 tb Unsweetened cocoa
1. In a small bowl, using a fork, beat the cheese until creamy. Set
aside.

2. Place a large (about 10-12 cups capacity) metal bowl over a pot of
boiling water. Using a hand-held electric mixer set on medium high,
beat the sugar and egg yolks in the bowl for 1 minute, or until the
mixture is well blended. With the mixer set on low speed to prevent
splashing, gradually add the wine. Continue to cook and beat the
mixture, increasing the speed to medium and then to high as the
mixture thickens. Cook and beat for 5-7 minutes, or until the mixture
is thickened and light, scraping down the sides of the bowl
frequently with a rubber spatula.

3. Remove the bowl from the heat and continue to beat the mixture for
1 minute longer. Beat in the cheese just until blended (makes about 5
cups).

4. Pour one cup of the expresso into a small shallow bowl that is
large enough to hold a ladyfinger if it is placed horizontally in the
bowl.

5. Quickly dip the rounded top side of each ladyfinger into the
expresso. Only the top half of the ladyfingers should be soaked with
the expresso. If the ladyfingers get too wet, they will fall apart!
Add more coffee to the bowl as needed.

6. Place the ladyfingers, flat side down, in the bottom of a 13 x 9
glass or ceramic pan. Do not use a metal pan. Form one layer. Pour
half of the custard mixture over the ladyfingers and spread to cover
them. Dip the remaining ladyfingers in the expresso (there will be a
few remaining ones and form a second layer over the custard mixture.
Pour the remaining custard mixture over the ladyfingers and spread to
an even layer.

7. Place the cocoa in a strainer and dust the top of the tiramisu
evenly. Cover and refrigerate for at least 10 hours.

Makes: 10-12 servings.

Source: "Cooking with Regis and Kathie Lee", 1993

