Title: CIMA ALLA GENOVESE III (ASSEMBLY)
Categories: Veal, Afghani
Yield: 12 Servings
1 x  Cima alla Genovese
-- Stuffing **
1 x  Cima alla Genovese
-- Salsa Verde **
--
--
--
--
MMMMM----------------------------VEAL---------------------------------
6 lb Veal, breast, trimmed,
-- boned, butterflied
5 lg Eggs, hard cooked,peeled
MMMMM----------------------POACHING LIQUID---------------------------
1/4 c  Salt, coarse (about)
1 md Onion, sliced
1 lg Carrot, sliced
3 ea Bay leaves
** See other recipes for Cima alla Genovese Stuffing and Cima
alla Genovese Salsa Verde.

Spread half of the cooled stuffing down the length of the veal
breast, leaving a 2 1/2 inch border on the long sides. Press the
stuffing together compactly.  Lay 5 hard cooked eggs end to end down
the length of the stuffing.  Spoon the remaining stuffing over eggs,
pressing it compactly with your hands into a high, narrow shape. When
the meat is rolled later, the eggs should be in approximately the
center of the roll.

Pull a needle with twine through a hole in the center of one
short end of the veal.  Gather together the 2 corners of this short
end and sew the end together, stitching from the inside outward at 1
inch intervals. Now stitch together both long sides of the veal
breast, gathering them together and pushing the stuffing in as you
stitch at 1 inch intervals. Sew together other short end, tying a
knot as you sew it shut. Cut off the string, leaving about 4 inches
at the end.

Lay a large sheet of cheesecloth (about 2 x 3 feet) next to
stuffed veal breast.  Without picking up breast, flip it over
carefully onto the center of the cheesecloth. Fold one long side of
cheesecloth over the length of the breast, wrapping it firmly, but
not tightly. Then fold the short ends up, and finally the second long
side.

Wrap some twine around the length of the breast 3 or 4 times,
then bring the twine around the breast crosswise in a spiral at 1 1/2
inch intervals.  Tie the twine at one end of the breast.

To Poach:

Choose a deep pot large enough to hold the veal and half fill it
with cold water.  Add about 1/4 cup coarse salt, sliced onion, sliced
carrot, and bay leaves. Bring to a boil. Lower heat, and add veal. If
necessary, add additional water to cover.  Place a lid on the veal
breast to keep it submerged.  Simmer 1 hour and 45 minutes.

When veal is cooked, transfer it to a roasting pan. Cover with
second pan and weight it down to compact the roll. Cool to lukewarm
or room temperature, 2 to 3 hours.

When veal is cool, remove outer twine and cheesecloth. Cut off
the one knotted end of twine, and starting at other end, very
carefully pull out stitching and discard.  Trim off excess fat,
without cutting into the filling.

Cut into thick slices and serve with salsa verde. (Unused
portions may be refrigerated and served cold.)
Source:  New York's Master Chefs, Bon Appetit Magazine
:  Written by Richard Sax, Photographs by Nancy McFarland
:  The Knapp Press, Los Angeles, 1985

Chef:  Lidia Bastianich, Felidia Restaurant, New York

