Title: CLASSIC SPINACH LASAGNA
Categories: Main dish, Pasta
Yield: 8 Servings
MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
1/2 oz Dried porcini mushrooms
2 tb Olive oil
2 oz Pancetta; chopped
- (or blanched bacon)
3 tb Chopped onion
1/2 lb Ground round of beef
Salt
Freshly ground black pepper
2 oz Chicken livers
- cleaned and minced
2 tb Tomato paste
MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
1 1/2 lb Fresh spinach; -=OR=-
2 pk -Frozen Spinach
Salt
1 c  Ricotta
1    Egg
Whole nutmeg
1 lb Freshly made lasagna noodles
1 1/2 tb Butter
1 c  Freshly grated parmigiano
TO MAKE THE MEAT SAUCE: Put the dried mushrooms in a bowl and pour 1
cup boiling water over them. Let them sit for 30 minutes, then drain,
reserving the water. Rinse the mushroom pieces thoroughly, chop them
fine, and rinse again to remove all traces of grit. Line a sieve with
a dampened paper towel and strain the mushroom-soaking liquid into a
small bowl. Heat the olive oil in a large non-reactive skillet. Add
the pancetta and onion and saute over low heat 5 minutes. Raise heat
to medium, crumble in the ground beef, and add 1/4 teaspoon of salt
and several grindings of fresh pepper. Saute 5 more minutes, stirring
to break up the meat. Add the chopped chicken livers and the chopped
porcini. In a measuring cup, combine 1/2 cup of the mushroom-soaking
liquid and 1/2 cup hot water. Dissolve the tomato paste in this
liquid and add it to the skillet. Bring to a simmer, cover the pan
and cook 1 hour, stirring occasionally and regulating the heat to
maintain a gentle simmer. TO MAKE THE SPINACH FILLING: If you are
using fresh spinach, wash it carefully, and place it in a large pot
with only the amount of water that clings to the leaves. Sprinkle
lightly with salt, cover the pot and turn heat to high. As soon as
the spinach wilts, reduce heat to medium and cook 5 minutes. (If
using frozen spinach, cook according to package directions.) Drain
the spinach in a colander, spray with cold water, squeeze out most of
the water, and chop it fine. Put it into a bowl and add the ricotta,
the egg, 1/4 teaspoon of salt and several gratings of fresh nutmeg.
Stir all together well. COOKING THE LASAGNA: Bring a large pot of
salted water to the boil. Fill a large bowl with ice water. Lay out
several clean dish towels on a work surface. Drop the lasagna noodles
a few at a time into the boiling water and cook 1 minute. Drain them
with a slotted spoon, dip them into the bowl of ice water to stop the
cooking, and lay them out on the dish towels while you cook the rest.
ASSEMBLY AND BAKING: Preheat oven to 400F. Butter a 10-by-14-inch
baking dish with 1/2 tablespoon butter. Cover the bottom of the dish
with a layer of lasagna noodles. (Use about a quarter of them.)
Spread 1/4 of the spinach-ricotta mixture over the surface. Sprinkle
on 1/4 of the parmigiano, then 1/4 of the meat sauce. Make 3 more
layers in the same way, ending with the cheese and meat sauce.
Finally, dot the top with the remaining tablespoon of butter. Bake 15
minutes, or until the sauce is bubbling hot. Remove from the oven and
let sit for 10 minutes before serving.

