Title: CLASSIC MASHED POTATOES (DISNEY KIDS)
Categories: Vegetable
Yield: 5 Servings
4 lg Potatoes -- peeled
Water
1/2 c  Milk -- or more
2 tb Butter
Salt and pepper -- to taste
1 pn Nutmeg -- optional
Cover the potatoes with cold water and bring to a boil. Cook for 20
minutes, or until tender. (Watch the pot! Potatoes have a tendency to
boil over.) While the spuds are cooking, slowly heat the milk and
butter. When the potatoes are done, drain them and add half the hot
milk mixture. Mash the potatoes with a handheld potato masher or an
electric mixer. Keep adding the hot milk until you reach the proper
consistency (which, of course, varies from family to family). Season
with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, if desired. Serves 4 to 6.

VARIATIONS- *Spuds with Jewels: In a frying pan, heat 1 teaspoon of
vegetable oil and briefly saute 1 diced red pepper (add hot peppers
such as green jalapeno for fire). Stir in 1/2 teaspoon basil.
Immediately pour on top of mashed potatoes.

*Green Potatoes: Use an electric mixer to blend 1 to 2 cups chopped
cooked spinach into one batch of mashed potatoes until they turn
green.

*Red Coats: Use purple, red, or new potatoes with their skins on.

*The Cheddar Broccoli: Mix 1/22 cup grated Cheddar cheese with 1 cup
chopped, steamed broccoli florets and fold into the mashed spuds.

*Prague Potatoes: Panfry 4 strips bacon until crisp. Remove from the
pan and add 1 diced onion, cooking until translucent. Crumble the
bacon into the onion. Top mashed potatoes with bacon, onion, and
drippings, using 1 1/2 teaspoons, or less, of fat per serving.

*Golden Broil: Spread prepared mashed potatoes in an oven-to-table
baking dish. Drizzle 1/2 cup heavy cream over the top and sprinkle
with Parmesan cheese. Broil until the top turns golden.

*Breakfast for Dinner: Serve mashed potatoes in a large bowl topped
with 3 to 4 chopped hard-boiled eggs chopped fresh parsley and chives.

*Tatties'n'Neeps: For the Scots' way of using up leftover mashed
pototoes, mix equal amounts of mashed potatoes and mashed turnips.

*Colcannon: Mix mashed potatoes with l 1/2 cups shredded, cooked,
drained cabbage or kale. 20 *Bangers and Mash: Try this English
recipe - serve plain mashed Potatoes with broiled or pan-seared
sausages ("bangers") on the side.

*Fenced-in Spuds: Surround a mound of mashed potatoes with a fence of
steamed green beans and carrot sticks.

~ - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -20

NOTES : Reviewed in "Vegetables your kids will eat," Family Fun
Magazine, May 1996.  Flavored to perfection, homemade mashed potatoes
may seem like a lot of work, but a little peeling and mashing are
worth the effort.

: Deanna Cook, 1996. Disney's Family Cookbook
Recipe By

