Title: COCHINITA PIBIL
Categories: Meats, Mexican
Yield: 6 Servings
ONE DAY AHEAD:
3 1/2 lb (to 4-1/2) pork --
Preferably
End of loin -- with fat
2 ts Salt
2 tb Seville orange juice (see
Note)
Spice grinder
1 tb Achiote seeds (heaping)
1/4 ts Cumin seeds
1/4 ts Oregano
12    Peppercorns
3    Whole allspice
40    Milliliters Garlic -- peeled
1/8 ts Powdered chile seco (may
Substitute hot paprika)
1 ts Salt
3 tb Seville orange juice -or-
Mild white vinegar
2 lg Pieces banana leaf
ON SERVING DAY:
Dutch oven
The wrapped meat
1/2 c  Cold water
SALSA:
1/2 c  Onion -- very finely
Chopped
3    Chiles habaneros -- very
Finely chopped
1/2 ts Salt
2/3 c  Seville orange juice
Pierce the pork all over and rub in the 2 teaspoons salt and 2
tablespoons orange juice. Set aside while you prepare the seasoning
paste.

Grind the achiote seeds, cumin, oregano, peppercorns and allspice
together to a fine powder.

Crush the garlic together with the chile seco, salt and 3 tablespoons
Seville orange juice and mix with other powdered spices. The mixture
should be a thick paste. Coat the pork with the paste.

Lightly sear the banana leaves over a bare flame to make them more
flexible. Wrap the meat up in them and leave to season in the
refrigerator for at least six hours or overnight. ON SERVING DAY:
Preheat oven to 325 degrees. Place a rack at the bottom of the Dutch
oven and cover the dish with a tight fitting lid. Cook for 2 1/2
hours. Turn the meat and baste it well with the juices at the bottom
of the pot. Cook for another 2 1/2 hours, or until the meat is soft
and falling off the bone.

Meanwhile, prepare the salsa: mix all ingredients together. Set aside
to season for about 2 hours. Serve in a separate dish.

After cooking, shred the meat roughly. Pour the fat and juices from
the pan over it. Serve hot, with tortillas and the sauce so that each
person can make his or her own tacos.

NOTE: A rough approximation of Seville orange juice may be attained
through the following: For 1/2 cup blended juice, combine 1 teaspoon
finely grated grapefruit rind, 3 tablespoons orange juice, 3
tablespoons grapefruit juice and 2 tablespoons lemon juice.

Recipe from _The Cuisines of Mexico_ by Diana Kennedy

:
Recipe By

