Title: Crostata Di Fragole
Categories: Dessert, Italian
Yield: 10 servings
MMMMM-----------------PASTA FROLLA ALLE MANDORLE----------------------
MMMMM-------------------SWEET DOUGH W/ALMONDS------------------------
1 pn Salt
5 tb Cold unsalted butter
1    Egg
1 1/4 c  All-purpose flour
1/2 c  Ground blanched almonds
1/4 c  Sugar
MMMMM--------------------FOR THE STRAWBERRIES-------------------------
1/2 c  Strawberry jam
Confectioners' sugar
- for finishing
3 pt Ripe strawberries
2 tb Sugar
1 ts Lemon juice
Use a sharp knife to cut the crostata to keep the berries from
toppling and lessening the elegant symmetry of the dessert.

FOR THE PASTA FROLLA: Combine the dry ingredients in a bowl and mix
well. Rub in the butter until it is absorbed. Make sure the mixture
remains cool and powdery and does not become pasty. Beat the egg and
stir in with a fork. Continue stirring until the dough holds
together, then knead it smooth, briefly. Shape into a disk, wrap in
plastic and refrigerate at least 1 hour, or until firm.

FOR THE STRAWBERRIES: Rinse and hull berries. Choose the best ones to
border the tart (draw a 9-inch circle on wax paper and arrange berries
inside to see how many you need). Slice remaining berries into a
bowl; add sugar and lemon juice. Toss to combine and cover with
plastic wrap. Refrigerate the sliced and whole berries until ready to
assemble the crostata. Preheat oven to 350F and set a rack in the
middle level. To form tart base, roll three-quarters of the dough on
a floured surface to a 9-inch disk. Transfer to a cookie sheet lined
with parchment or buttered wax paper. Place a 9-inch disk, like a
spring- form bottom, on dough and trim to a 9-inch diameter. Pierce
the dough all over with a fork at 1/2-inch intervals. Combine the
scraps with the remaining dough and roll it into a thin cylinder,
about 30-inches long. Moisten the edge of the base with water and
arrange the cylinder of dough on it, to form sides on the tart shell.
Press the cylinder with fingertip to make it adhere and mark a series
of diagonal lines on it with the back of a small knife. Bake about 25
minutes, until the dough is an even golden color and feels firm when
pressed with fingertip. Cool the tart shell on a rack on the pan.
Place cooled shell on a platter. Spread bottom evenly with jam.
Arrange a row of the whole strawberries inside the edge. Drain sliced
berries well; pile in center. Dust with sugar.

NICK MALGIERI - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK

