Title: Hammin Di Pesach (Lamb, Meatballs & Spinach for Passover)
Categories: Meat, Jewish, Italian, Holiday
Yield: 1 servings
2 1/2 lb Lamb,breast of or rib chops
2    Garlic cloves; sliced
2    Parsley, Italian sprigs
-coarsely chopped
1 c  -Warm water
2 lb Spinach,cooked and slightly
-drained
4    Matzot;regular, broken into
-large pieces
1    Chicken breast (2 halves)
-ground
4 ts Olive oil
1    Egg; slightly beaten
2 tb Matza meal*
8 c  Chicken broth
-salt
-freshly ground black pepper
1 ds Nutmeg
* Matza meal and Matzots may purchase in some supermarkets and Jewish
grocery stores.

(The word Hammin (or Hammim) is derived from the Hebrew adjective Ham
or warm which describes certain dishes that are kept warm for
prolonged periods of time...In Pitigliano, however Hammin was the
classic one-course meal for Passover that both rich and poor used to
make. The only difference between the versions was the in the cuts of
meat used. Poor people used breast of lamb..and meatballs made with
beef(when the cost of ground beef was a fraction of the cost of
chicken.) People who didn't have to worry about the cost used tiny
rib chops from baby lamb and chicken balls."

Combine ground chicken, 1 Tbsp olive oil, egg, matza meal and 2 Tbsp
broth in small bowl. Add salt, pepper and nutmeg to taste and mix
well. In large pot, place the lamb with remaining oil, sprinkle with
1 tsp salt and 1/4 tsp pepper and lightly brown for 2-3 minutes. Add
garlic, parsley and 1 cup of warm water. Form many tiny bowls with
the ground chicken mixture and gently add to pot with lamb. Cover and
simmer 1 to 1/2 hours. Add spinach and 1 Tsp salt and simmer,
covered, 15 minutes longer. Transfer the lamb chops, half the spinach
and most of the gravy to a hot serving dish and keep warm. Add
remaining broth to pot and bring to a boil. Add matza pieces and cook
4 to 5 minutes. Turn the heat off and let stand 5 minutes before
serving as a soup. Serve the lamb and spinach as the main dish.
SERVES: 6-8

Source: _The Classic Cuisine of the Italian Jews_

