Title: Noodles and Cabbage
Categories: Vegetarian, Casserole, Main dish, Pasta
Yield: 6 servings
2    Garlic cloves; minced
1/2 ts Red pepper flakes
1 1/2 lb Savoy cabbage; quartered
- cut into 1/2-in slices
1/2 c  Grated Parmesan cheese
- (fresh)
1 lb Fettuccine
1/2 lb Soft cheese; such as
-Taleggio, Bel Paese
-or Fresh Mozzarella, sliced
1/2 c  Unsalted butter
- cut into small pieces
8 lg Fresh sage leaves; -=OR=-
1 ts -Dried Sage
1 lg Garlic clove; sliced
Salt
1/2 lb Potatoes; peeled
-cut into 1/2-in cubes
3 lg Leeks; white parts only,
- quartered and sliced
- 3/8-in thick
SLOWLY MELT BUTTER IN HEAVY PAN over low heat with 4 fresh sage
leaves or 1/2 teaspoon dried, and the sliced garlic. When garlic is
golden brown, remove it, but continue to cook butter until light
amber with a distinctly nutty aroma. Scoop foam off top as it rises
so that you can see the color, then pour it through strainer lined
with layer of cheesecloth. Meanwhile, bring 4 quarts water to boil.
Add 1 tablespoon salt and potatoes. Cook 5 to 8 minutes or until
potatoes are fairly tender, but just short of being done. Rinse them
immediately with cool water and set them in colander to drain, but
reserve cooking water for pasta. Chop or crumble remaining sage
leaves. Heat half the brown butter in wide saute pan, add leeks,
sage, half the minced garlic and red pepper flakes. Cook over
medium-low heat until leeks are soft. Add cabbage, 1 teaspoon salt
and a little water. It might be necessary to add cabbage in stages,
letting some of it cook down before adding rest. Cover pan and simmer
until cabbage is cooked. Add Parmesan cheese and season with plenty
of freshly ground black pepper and salt, if needed, to make flavors
bright and strong. Return reserved cooking water to boil, add pasta
and partially cook it, leaving it a little chewier than you would
want to eat. Drain in colander, return it to empty pan and toss with
rest of butter, remaining minced garlic and potatoes. Season to taste
with salt and pepper. Butter casserole and layer half the noodles,
half the cabbage and most of sliced cheese. Shake casserole so that
vegetables and cheese can slip in among noodles. Add rest of pasta
and cheese and finish with layer of cabbage. At this point, dish can
be refrigerated until ready to bake. Bake at 425F about 20 minutes or
until hot throughout and cheese is melted. If casserole is cold when
placed in oven, bake it covered 15 minutes, then remove cover and
continue baking until heated through. Serve from baking dish.

DEBORAH MADISON - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK

