Title: Pecan Pralines - Prudhomme
Categories: Cajun/creol, Candy
Yield: 36 servings
1 c  Milk
1 c  Chopped pecans
2 c  Pecan halves
2 T  Vanilla extract
1 1/2 ea Sticks unsalted butter
1 c  Sugar
1 c  Packed, light brown sugar
1/2 c  Heavy cream
NOTE: To judge doneness, use one or more of the following guides; 1.
Candy thermometer will read 240F 2. When done, the batter will begin
forming distinct threads on the sides or bottom of the pan. 3. Near
the end of the cooking time, make a test praline every few seconds.
The early-test pralines will be somewhat runny, very shiny and
somewhat translucent. The ideal praline will have progressed past
that stage--it will not be runny and will be less shiny; when cooled
it will be opaque, lusteriess and crumbly instead of chewy. 4.  Near
the end of the cooking time, drizzle spoonfuls of the mixture across
the surface of the mixture. When ready, the mixture will form a neat
thread across the surface.
Assemble all ingredients and utensils before starting to cook. You
will need a large heavy bottomed aluminum pot or skillet with deep
sides, a long handled metal whisk or spoon, 2 large spoons (or an ice
cream scoop with a manual release) and a lightly buttered cookie
sheet. Be careful not to get any of the mixture on you skin, as it
sticks and can cause serious burns. Melt the butter in the pot over
high heat. As soon as it's melted, add the sugars and cream.  Cook 1
minute, whisking constantly.
Add the milk and chopped pecans,  cook 4 minutes more, whisking
constantly.  Reduce heat to medium and continue cooking and whisking 5
minutes.  Add the pecan halves and vanilla and continue whisking and
cooking until done, about 15 to 20 minutes longer (see NOTE above on
tests for doneness).  If mixture starts to smoke toward end of
cooking, lower the heat.
Remove pan from heat.  Quickly and carefully drop the batter onto
the cookie sheet by heaping spoonfuls, using the second spoon to
scoop the batter off the first (or use ice cream scoop). Each praline
should form a 2-inch patty about 1/2 inch thick.  Cool and store in
an airtight container, or wrap each praline in plastic wrap or foil.
LAGNIAPPE: To clean the pot and utensils, boil water in the pot with
the utensils in it. This will melt the batter off. From Paul
Prudhomme's Louisiana Kitchen

