Title: Portuguese Roast Turkey
Categories: Poultry, Holiday, European, Turkey
Yield: 10 servings
1 lb French or Italian bread
1/2 ts Fine salt
1/2 ts Freshly ground pepper
3 1/2 c  Chicken stock
2 x  Large egg yolks
10 lb Turkey
2 lb Coarse (kosher) salt
1/4 lb Unsalted butter
3 tb Olive oil
2 x  Large cloves garlic, minced
Remove giblets from turkey and reserve for another use.  Wash turkey
and pat dry.  Fill neck and body cavities with coarse salt, then rub
skin well all over with salt.  Place turkey and any remainng coarse
salt in large deep kettle, adding enough cold water just to cover
bird. Set in cool spot 3 to 4 hours.

To prepare stuffing, place butter and olive oil in large, heavy saute
pan or kettle, and set over moderate heat.  When butter is melted,
add garlic and cook 3 to 5 minutes until tender.

Meanwhile, tear bread into small chunks.  Add bread, fine salt, and
pepper to garlic mixture and toss well.  Pour in chicken stock and
beat hard with wooden spoon until mixture is paste-like.  Reduce heat
to lowest point. Cover kettle and steam 15 to 20 minutes until bread
absorbs all liquid. Add egg yolks to mixture and beat hard until
smooth. Remove from heat and reserve.

Drain turkey and rinse several times in cool water so all traces of
salt wash away.  Place bird on counter with neck cavity facing up.
With hands, begin working skin free from breast.  Proceed gently,
taking care not to tear skin.  Loosen skin down both sides of bird to
within 1 inch of tail end.

With hands, push stuffing bit by bit under skin.  Continue packing
stuffing in lightly, until breast is covered with about 1-inch layer.
Next, fill neck cavitiy.  Skewer neck skin flat against back to
enclose and truss bird.

Place turkey, breast-side up, in large shallow roasting pan without
rack. Roast at 400 degrees, uncovered about 2 1/2 hours.  Do not
baste. When bird is richly browned and leg moves easily in hip joint,
remove from oven and let stand, uncovered, 20 minutes.

Drain drippings into sauceboat and keep warm.  Remove trussing string
and skewers and serve turkey at once on warmed platter.

-- from the LA TIMES FOOD SECTION, 11-21-91
by Peter Kump, director of Peter Kump's New York Cooking School

