Title: Pot En Pot
Categories: Cajun/creol, Canadian, Meat
Yield: 1 servings
1    Onion; up to 2 onions
-chopped
-salt & pepper
Summer savory; to taste
2 lb Fatty beef; up to 3 lb
5 c  -Salted water
5    Potatoes; sliced or cut in
-large pieces
MMMMM--------------------POUTINES (DUMPLINGS-------------------------
1 tb Baking powder
1/2 c  -Cold water
1 c  Flour
1/2 ts -Salt
"Although pot-en-pot contains the same ingredients as fricot, the
method of preparation is significantly different. The most commonly
used meats for this dish are chicken and hare but beef, pork, duck or
goose may also be used. In Cheticamp and on the Magadalen Islands,
pot-en-pot is called Etouffrage."

Poultines Blanches: In a bowl, mix flour with salt and baking powder.
Gradually add cold water to the dough as one would when making
biscuits. Roll the dough fairly thin, cut into 1 1/2 inch squares and
place in fricot or other dish. Cut the meats into pieces. Place the
pieces in a large pot with the salted water and bring to a boil.
Simmer until the meat is tender. Remove the meat from the pot,
reserving the stock.
In the bottom of a second large pot, place a layer of potatoes, a
layer of meat, a layer of chopped onion Season with salt, pepper and
summer savory and continue adding until there are no ingredients left.
Add the stock from the simmered meat and just enough water to cover
three quarters of the ingredients. Cover and simmer for 45 minutes or
until the potatoes are tender.
Add Poutines Blanches (dumplings) 7 minutes before it is ready to be
served, cover for the remaining 7 minutes.

VARIATIONS: To vary the taste, other spices such as cumin or
coriander may be added to the pot-en-pot. The meat may be sauteed
before being simmered to improve it's flavour.  Handkerchief
dumplings (included with Fricot a la Belette may be layered in with
the ingredients at the beginning of the cooking time, instead of the
dumplings used.

SOURCE: _A Taste of Acadie_ by Marie Cormier-Boudreau posted by Anne
MacLellan

