Title: Roast Tarragon Chicken
Categories: Poultry, Chicken
Yield: 4 servings
1    Celery stalk; sliced
1 sm Onion; sliced
1 tb Safflower oil
2 tb Melted butter
1 tb Minced shallots
1 1/2 c  Chicken stock
3 lb Chicken
- (roasting, broiling
- or frying)
2 ts Dry tarragon (or dbl. amt.)
Freshly ground pepper
4 tb Butter; at room temperature
1 sm Carrot; sliced
PREHEAT OVEN TO 425F. Lightly pepper the inside of chicken and smear
with butter, then sprinkle with 2 teaspoons tarragon. Truss the
chicken, then dry the outside thoroughly and rub with another 1
tablespoon butter all over the skin.

TO BROWN THE CHICKEN: Set the chicken on a rack, breast side up in the
roasting pan, place in the oven for 5 minutes. Turn on its left side
and baste quickly with the oil and butter, return to the oven for
another 5 minutes. Turn on its right side for another 5 minutes,
basting as before.

TO ROAST THE CHICKEN: Leave the chicken on its right side. Reduce oven
temperature to 350F. Strew the vegetables under the chicken and baste
it again. Leave it for a total of 15-20 minutes, basting it at least
every 10 minutes. Salt the chicken, turn it on its other side, and
cook another 15-20 minutes, basting at least every 10 minutes. Turn
the chicken breast up and continue basting every 10 minutes until it
is done.

TO TELL IF THE CHICKEN IS DONE: Prick the thickest part of the
drumstick with a fork. If the juices come out clear yellow, it is
done. If not, roast another 5 minutes and test again. As a final
check, lift the chicken and drain the juices from its vent into the
pan; if the last few drops are clear yellow, it is definitely done.
Put the chicken on a warm platter, remove the trussing string, and
let it sit at least 5-10 minutes before carving so that the juices
will not retreat into the tissues. It can wait a good 30 minutes with
foil over it. Remove the vegetables and all but 2 tablespoons of fat
from the pan, leaving as much of the brown juices as you can. Stir in
the minced shallot and cook 2-3 minutes. Add the stock, 2 teaspoons
of tarragon and boil rapidly over high heat. As the juices boil,
scrape up coagulated juices (deglaze the pan) with a wooden spoon.
Let the liquid reduce to about 1/2 cup. Carve the chicken at this
point unless you are going to carve it at the table. Any juices may
be added to the sauce. Just before serving, swirl the final 2
tablespoons of butter into the hot sauce until it has been absorbed
and lightly thickened. Dribble the sauce on the chicken, sprinkle
with minced parsley.

PETER KUMP - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK

