Title: EL TORITO SOUTHWESTERN CAESAR SALAD
Categories: Salad
2    corn tortillas
Oil
Yield: 6 Servings
:
1 lg romaine lettuce -- rinse and
spin dry
salad dressing -- see
further
:
:
:
1/2 c  grated Cotija cheese
1    red bell pepper -- roasted
julienned
:
1/2 c  pumpkin seeds (pepitas) --
roasted
**CILANTRO-PEPITA DRESSING
:
:
1 md Anaheim chili -- roasted
peeled and seeded
:
3 TB pumpkin seeds (pepitas) --
roasted
:
1 lg clove garlic
1/8 ts freshly ground black pepper
1/2 ts salt
3/4 c  oil
2 TB red wine vinegar
3 TB grated Cotija cheese
1 sm bunch cilantro -- stemmed
3/4 c  mayonnaise
2 TB water

Delicious! It contains several Mexican ingredients such as pumpkin
seeds (pepitas) and Cotija cheese, which are available in Mexican
markets and some supermarkets. --Susan Watts, Palm Dessert

Update: Oct 1996 the restaurant is making roasted red pepper
tortillas. The salad had fresh red and green bell pepper dice that
has been marinating in the dressing. COTIJA, also known as ANEJO, is
a salty, crumbly white cheese, similar to feta in appearance. But
cotija is hard enough to put into a blender. Romano or washed and
dried feta are good substitutes. Cotija is hard white cheese that can
be grated. Other substitutes are Cacique, manchego, panela, or
Parmesan. The cheese must have character.)patH(

MAKE THE DRESSING:  Place chili, pepitas, garlic, pepper, salt, oil,
vinegar and Cotija cheese in blender or food processor. Blend about 10
seconds, then add cilantro, bit by bit,until smoothly blended.

Place mayonnaise and water in large stainless-steel bowl and whisk
until smooth. Add blended chili mixture and mix thoroughly. Place in
an airtight container and refrigerate; dressing may be stored up to 3
days. Makes about 3 cups.

MAKE THE SALAD:  Cut tortillas into matchstick-size strips. Heat oil
for deep frying and add tortilla strips. Cook a few seconds until
crisp. Remove and drain. Set aside.

Tear romaine lettuce into bite-size pieces. Place greens on 6 salad
plates and ladle Cilantro-Pepita Dressing on each salad. Sprinkle
each dish with Cotija cheese and tortilla strips. Arrange 4 red
pepper strips like spokes on top of each salad and garnish with
pepitas.

Cook and Tell recipe swap column, Riverside Press-Enterprise 1 Au 96.
Pat H. McRecipe.

: El Torito Restaurant, California
Recipe By

From: Path <phannema@wizard.Ucr.Edu>  Date: Mon, 21 Oct 1996 12:34:53

