Title: ENCHILADAS VERDES (GREEN CHICKEN ENCHILADAS)
Categories: Poultry
Yield: 1 Servings
Green Chckn Enchiladas
-(Enchiladas Verdes)
MMMMM------------------------THE FILLING-----------------------------
2    Whole Chicken Breasts,
Halved
2    Cloves Garlic, Peeled
1/2    Carrot, Cut In Pieces
1    Yellow Onion, Peeled
& Halved
1    Bay Leaf, Broken
3    Sprigs Parsley
2 c  Sour Cream
1/2 c  Heavy Cream
6 oz Monterey Jack
MMMMM----------------------SAUCE & ASSEMBLY---------------------------
12    6" Corn Tortillas
No. 2452 Yields 6 Servings
3 lb Fresh Tomatillos
1    Clove Garlic, Peeled &
Minced
4    Serrano Chiles, Stems
Removed
1 ts Sugar
- Salt
- Pepper
3/4 c  Chicken Broth (From
Poaching the Chicken)
3 oz Queso Fresco or
"Enchilada Cheese",
Crumbled
Start with the filling: Place the chicken in a saucepan. Add water to
cover. Add the garlic, carrot, bay leaf, parsley and half the onion.
Bring to a boil. Reduce heat. Cover. Simmer until the chicken is
tender (about 30 minutes). Let cool in the broth. Remove the meat
from the skin and bones. Shred the chicken meat. Cover to prevent it
from drying out. Set aside. Strain the broth. Set aside. Combine the
sour cream with the heavy cream. Let stand at room temperature for 30
minutes to thicken. Shred the cheese. Set aside. Slice the remaining
onion. Rinse with cold water. Set aside 2 slices of onion per
serving. Add the left over onion to the broth. Combine the shredded
chicken with half of the shredded cheese. Set the remaining cheese
aside. Add 1/4 of the sour cream to the chicken and cheese mixture.
Blend carefully. Heat about 1" of oil in a large skillet (one big
enough to hold an unrolled tortilla flat) to 300 degrees. Pass the
tortillas, one at a time, through the oil (to soften and seal them).
Press between paper towels to remove excess oil. Divide the filling
equally between the tortillas. Roll each up and place, seam side
down, in a buttered casserole dish. Keep covered while preparing the
sauce. Preheat the oven to 400 degrees. Remove the husks from the
tomatillos. Wash off any sticky residue. Combine the tomatillos,
chiles and minced garlic. Puree (a food processor will do this best).
Place the mixture in a saucepan. Bring to a boil. Stir in the sugar,
salt, pepper and the measured amount of the chicken broth. Keep hot.
Cover the tortillas in the baking dish. Bake until heated through
(about 10 minutes). Cover with the sauce. Top with the reserved
shredded cheese. Bake, uncovered, until the cheese melts (5-8
minutes). Garnish with the reserved onion slices and the crumbled
cheese. Serve at once with the remaining (room temperature) sour
cream mixture.

