Title: ERUPTING VOLCANO CAKE
Categories: Cakes
Yield: 1 Cake
6    8" baked round cakes
Brown & green Frosting
1    Fresh egg w/shell scrubbed
Clean
1 sm Juice glass or
1 1/2    Inch cookie cutter
2    To 3 drops red food color
1 1/2 ts Sugar
1/4 lb Dry ice
Aluminum foil
1    To 2 oz hot tap water
Make six 8" round cakes using your favorite mix or buy cakes from a
bakery.

Buy two or three dollars worth of dry ice from an ice cream store the
day you will need it. Keep the dry ice in freezer. Be sure to handle
the dry ice with gloves or tongs just to be safe. f your ice cream
store doesn't have dry ice just look in your local Yellow Pages
telephone directory under "Dry Ice". It's wasy to find everywhere.

Now use your juice glass or cookie cutter and cut out a hole in the
center or the top two layers of cake. This hole will form a well in
the center of the cake and hide the special effect.

Now construct the Volcano cake, round pyramid style, on a cake
platter or large dish. Trim each layer into seccessively smaller
rounds and stack and frost them into mountain shape using the last
two layers with the holes as its top.

With a small piece of aluminum foil, line the well in the center of
the volcano cake. Use the juice glass as a mold and form foil around
the glass.

Now frost the cake, smoothing out the small step-like ledges. Use
chocolate frosting for the whole cake first. Then use green frosting
as highlights around the mountain to resemble vegetation.

When you are ready to serve the cake, make the "lava". Separate the
cleaned egg and discard the yolk. Put the egg white in a small mixing
bowl with 1 1/2 teaspoons sugar and 2-3 drops red food coloring. Beat
until the egg white starts to thicken. You don't want stiff peaks to
form, just a thick, foamy texture.

Now place two or three small chunks of the dry ice into the
foil-lined well of the cake and pour in the red egg mixture. Nothing
much will happen yet. Now fill your juice glass with hot tap water
and take the Volcano Cake and water to the table where yyour guests
are. When you are ready to produce the Special Effect, simply pour
one or two ounces of the hot water into the egg and dry ice mixture
and your realistic Volcano Cake will erupt large quantities or
orange, foamy "lava" and white "smoke" for several minutes while you
serve your delighted guests pieces of genuine Erupting Volcano Cake.

Alternate Foam Generating Technique: If you can't find dry ice in your
area, you can still produce the foaming "Lava" effect. There will be
no smoke, but you will have plenty of foamy lava. You will need a
small, short juice glass or a shot glass that will fit snugly in the
center of the Volcano Cake (a glass 3" tall and 1 1/2" in diameter
would be perfect). You will also need one small box of Jell-o, one
small bottle lemon juice and 1 tablespoon of bicarbonate of soda.
Make Jell-o according to package directions. Let cool 15 minutes.
When jello is still (not hot), fill juice glass 1/2 full with the
warm jello. Pour in enough lemon juice so that the glass is almost
full, or about 1/2" from the top. Place glass down into hole in the
cake so lip of glass is flush with top of cake. You are now ready to
produce the effect. When ready, put 1 tablespoon of bicarbonate of
soda into the glass and briefly stir (1-2 seconds). Jello foam will
immediately pour out the top of the glass and flow down the sides of
the cake.

