Title: FERMENTED OR BRINED PICKLES
Categories: Pickles
Yield: 6 Servings
10    Percent brine solution made
-by dissolving 1 cup salt in
-2 quarts
"Pickle making begins with the brine and to make carelessly or to
maintain carelessly a brine is the reason for most of the soft and
unfit pickles.

Remember these key points; Use clean stone or glass jars; use only a
recommended pickling variety of cucumbers; use only canning and
pickling salt; and do not use hard water. Pickles must be placed in a
brine and fermented for approximately 6 weeks before the addition of
the final and last brine."

1.  Wash cucumbers carefully. Use only freshly harvested, slightly
immature pickling variety. 2. Weigh cucumbers. Put in a clean
pickling container and cover with a water. (Cucumbers may be added
during the first day or two of curing process if enough brine is
added to cover them and if salt is added in definite amounts to
maintain a 10% brine. 3. Weight cucumbers under brine 4. Store in a
cool dark place. 5. Next day, add 1 cup salt for each 5 pounds of
cucumbers. This is necessary to maintain a 10% brine solution. Salt
must be added on top of plate or clean cloth (and not directly on the
cucumbers) for even distribution throughout the brine. 6. Remove scum
when it forms on top of brine. The scum will destroy the acidity of
the brine and result in spoilage of the product, if left on. 7. At
the end of the week, and for 4 or 5 succeeding weeks, add 1/4 cup
salt for each 5 pounds of cucumbers.  Add in the same manner as No.5.
8. Fermentation resulting in bubble formation should continue about 4
weeks. Test for bubbles by tapping container on the side with your
hand. As a second test, cut a cucumber in half; if it is the same
color throughout and has no noticeable rings or white spots,
fermentation is complete. 9. Cucumbers may be kept in this 10% brine
solution--no additional salt is added after they are cured--until
made into pickles.  The best temperature for brining cucumbers is
about 70 to 75.

From: Ball Blue Book Shared By: Pat Stockett

