Title: FETTUCCINE WITH TOMATO-POBLANO SAUCE & GREE
Categories: Pasta, Meatless
Yield: 4 Servings
12 oz Fettuccine, uncooked
2    Poblano chiles; OR...
2    -Green bell peppers AND...
1    -Jalapeno pepper
1 tb Olive or vegetable oil
1 sm Red onion; finely diced
2 ts Minced garlic
1/3 c  Dry red wine
15 oz Canned plum tomatoes
- (with liquid),
- coarsely chopped
2 tb Thinly sliced fresh basil
1/2 ts Sugar
Salt
Freshly ground pepper
1 c  Soft goat cheese; OR...
8 oz -Plain Boursin cheese
Roast the poblanos or the green peppers and the jalapeno directly
over a gas jet of the range (or under a pre-heated broiler), turning
them often with a pair of tongs, until blackened on all sides.
Transfer them to a bowl and cover tightly with plastic wrap. Let
stand until cool. Cut the peppers in half lengthwise and remove the
stem and seeds. Scrape off the blackened skin of the pepper. Cut the
peppers into 1/2-inch cubes.

Heat the oil in a medium saucepan over medium heat. Add the onion and
garlic and cook, stirring, until the onion is softened, about 3
minutes. Pour in the wine, increase the heat to high and boil until
the wine is reduced to 1 tablespoon. Add the tomatoes and two-thirds
of the peppers and heat to boiling. Reduce the heat to a simmer and
cook until the tomatoes are very tender, about 20 minutes. Stir
occasionally to break up the tomato pieces. Add the basil, sugar and
salt and pepper to taste.

Combine the goat cheese and the remaining peppers in a food processor
or blender. Process until the peppers are finely chopped and the
cheese is very creamy.

Prepare pasta according to package directions. Drain the pasta and
return it to the pot. Add the tomato sauce and half the cheese
mixture and cook over medium heat until the cheese is melted and the
pasta is coated with the sauce. Transfer pasta to a serving bowl.
Serve, passing the remaining goat cheese separately.

Each serving provides: 635 Calories; 25.9 g Protein; 88 g
Carbohydrates; 18.7 g Fat; 28.3 mg Cholesterol; 303 mg Sodium.
Calories from Fat: 26%

Copyright National Pasta Association (http://www.ilovepasta.org)
(Reprinted with permission)

