Title: Chocolate Walnut Torte
Categories: Chocolate, Cakes/choc.
Yield: 6 servings
Cream of tartar
Chocolate Rum Glaze
4 oz Ghirardelli Bittersweet
-Chocolate
2 tb Butter
1 tb Light corn syrup
1 tb Dark rum (opt)
8 oz Ghirardelli Bittersweet
-Chocolate
3/4 c  Butter
4    Egg separated
3/4 c  Sugar, divided
1 ts Vanilla
1/4 c  Unsifted flour
2/3 c  Walnuts, ground
In heavy saucepan on low heat, melt broken chocolate with butter, stirring
constantly until smooth; set aside. Beat egg yolks for 1 to 2 minutes,
gradually adding 1/2 cup sugar and vanilla. Beat in chocolate mixture. Fold
in flour and nuts. Beat egg whites with cream of tartar until foamy.

Gradually add remaining 1/4 cup sugar, beating until stiff peaks form.

Blend a fourth of the egg whites into the chocolate mixture; fold in
remaining egg whites. Pour into 9-inch springform pan lined with parchment
paper. Bake at 375 F for 30 to 35 min or until sides start to separate from
pan but center is still moist. Cool on rack. Remove torte from pan. Frost
with Chocolate Rum Glaze.

Chocolate Rum Glaze In heavy saucepan on low heat, melt broken chocolate
with butter, stirring constantly until smooth. Remove from heat. Stir in
corn syrup and rum. Place torte upside-down on a rack over tray to catch
excess glaze. Spread a very thin layer of glaze over top and sides of torte
to set surface. Chill 15 minutes to firm glaze. Reheat remaining glaze to
thin and pour over top and sides of torte. When glaze is firm, remove cake
from rack to large plate. Decorate top and sides with shaved chocolate, if
desired. For shiny glaze, store cake at room temp until serving time.

This is from the back of the Ghirardelli Chocolate bar. There is a cookbook
offer on the package also: Over 150 pages filled with delicious and
original recipes. To order, send your name, address, zip code and $7 check
or money order payable to Ghirardelli and addressed to:

Ghirardelli Chocolate Company 1111-139 th Avenue, San Leandro, CA
94578-2671 Please allow 6-8 weeks for delivery. Offer good only in the
United States.

