Title: Country Pate' with Pistachios
Categories: Appetizers, Veal
Yield: 8 servings
1/8 ts Ground cloves
1/4 ts Ground cloves
1/4 ts Nutmeg; fresly grated
1/8 ts Ground cumin
1 pn Ground cinnamon
1 pn Cayenne pepper
1/2 c  Dry white wine
1    Salt to taste if desired
1    Freshly ground pepper to tas
2    Sl Bacon; lean
1 tb Butter
1/2 c  Shallots; coarsely chopped
1/2 lb Pork liver; or veal liver,
1/4 ts Thyme; dry
1/2    Bay leaf; crumbled
3/4 lb Veal; lean, cut into 1-inch
1 lb Pork; lean, cut into 1-inch
1/2 lb Ham; cooked, cut into 1/2-i
1/2 c  Pistachios; shelled, toaste
1/8    Allspice
Servings:  8

1.  Preheat the oven to 425F. 2. Heat the butter in a heavy skillet and add
the shallots. Cook briefly, stirring. Add the liver and sprinkle with the
thyme and bay leaf. Cook about 2 minutes, stirring occasionally. 3. Put the
veal in a food processor or blender and blend it slightly finer than
store-bought hamburger.  Empty the veal into a mixing bowl. 4. Put the pork
in the food processor or blender and blend it a little coarser than
store-bought hamburger.  Add the pork to the veal. 5. Put the liver mixture
in the food processor or blender and blend it as finely as possible. Pour
and scrape it into the bowl with the pork and veal. Add the ham and
pistachios.  Add the allspice, cloves, nutmeg, cumin, cinnamon, cayenne,
wine, salt and pepper and blend well with your fingers. To test the mixture
for seasoning, shape a small portion into a patty and cook it, turning
once, in a nonstick sillet until cook through. Taste the patty and add more
seasonings as desired. 6. Pack the mixture in a 5- or 6-cup loaf pan.
Smooth the top, rounding it slightly. Place the bacon slices on top. Cover
tightly with foil and place the pan in a heatproof baking dish. Set the
dish on the stove and pour in boiling water around the loaf pan. Bring the
water to a boil.  Place the pan in the water bath in the oven and bake 45
minutes or to an internal temperature of 150F.  Remove the pan from the
oven and let stand until ready to serve. 7. The pate' is excellent hot or
cold.  Cut it crosswise into slices and serve. Yield: 6 to 10 servings.
Recipe from "Cuisine Rapide" by Pierre Franey and Bryan Miller.

