Title: Death By Chocolate Cake
Categories: Chocolate, Cakes/choc.
Yield: 6 servings
2 1/2 c  Heavy cream
1/4 c  Sugar
1 ts Vanilla
2 tb Vegetable oil
3 pk Ladyfingers
1/2 c  Dark rum
1 1/2 lb Butter (no substitutes)
27 oz Semisweet chocolate chips
12    Eggs
From: John Totels, 25 May 89 00:13:00

Here's a recipe I recently obtained from a friend who in turn received it
from a friend ....  This recipe can be made a week or so in advance, or so
I'm told.  It's more like a mousse than a cake, but it is indecently rich!

Preparation: Paint outside of the ladyfingers with rum, and place flat side
down, around the sides and on the bottom of a 10 in. springform pan. Melt
butter in medium pan; remove from heat and add 24 oz. of the chocolate
bits.  Stir until melted; cool slightly. Beat the egg yokes into the
mixture one at a time until all are incorporated into the chocolate. Beat
the egg whites until they form stiff, not dry, peaks. Fold the whites into
the chocolate mixture, and pour into the lined springform pan. Chill for at
least 6 hours.

Whip the cream until thickened and add the sugar and vanilla. Continue
whipping until very stiff.  Turn the cake onto a serving platter, removing
the pan sides and bottom (the lady fingers will now be on top). Spread a
layer of whipped cream over the entire cake, then pipe the rest of the
whipped decoratively however you wish around the cake - be imaginative!
Melt the remaining chocolate chips with the oil in a double boiler. Cool
completely.  Dribble the sauce down the sides of the cake. Garnish with
stemmed candied cherries. Store in the refrigerator.

Should make about 16 servings, or 8 - depending....

Note: If the cake is going to be displayed for any length of time, you may
wish to use stabalized cream, and add 1 teaspoon of dissolved gelatin to
the cake mixture.

One more note: I don't know to whom the credit goes for this "slightly"
fattening recipe, and I apologize for that.  But I am passing it on to
those of you who are in good health.  If you are not in good health, you
use this recipe at your own risk - 12 eggs, 2-1/2 cups of cream, 27 oz. of
chocolate, 1-1/2 lb. of butter (no substitutes) - there ought to be a law!
Thanks for listening.

