Title: Onion Tart
Categories: Appetizers
Yield: 8 servings
-----------------------------------PASTRY-----------------------------------
1    Egg
1 ds Salt
200 g  Plain flour
130 g  Unsalted butter, softened
3 tb Water
----------------------------------FILLING----------------------------------
4    Eggs
1 ds Gratted nutmeg
1 tb Chopped parsley
Salt and pepper
400 g  Onions
30 g  Bacon, cut into thin strips
50 g  Unsalted butter
3 1/2 dl Cream
3 1/2 dl Milk
Pastry

Make the flour into a 'well' on the pastry board, beat the egg and add it,
with the butter, salt and a little of the water, to the centre of the well,
then work the ingredients into the flour with your fingertips,
incorporating more water little by little; whether you have to use all the
water or not depends on the quality of the flour. Press all the dough
together into a ball then, finally, work it thoroughly with the heel of
your hand, gathering it up with pastry scraper as you do so until it is
soft and pliable. Leave it in the refrigerator to firm up again before you
roll it out.

Filling

Peel the onions. Cut them into fine rings and weigh out 300 g.

Cook the bacon strips (which need to be VERY finely cut) in the butter. Let
them take on a golden colour, then add the sliced onions and leave them to
cook gently until they are tender.

In a bowl beat together the cream, milk and eggs, adding salt, pepper and
nutmeg to taste.

When the onions are cooked, add them to the mixture in the bowl and add the
chopped parsley.

Preparation

Roll out the dough 2mm thick and use it to line a buttered tart tin 26 cm
in diameter and at least 3cm deep. Cut a disc of aluminium foil of the same
diameter as the tin and place it on the pastry. Weight it down with a
handful of beans or crusts.

Pre-heat the oven to 150 oC (300 oF) and cook the pastry 'blind' for half
an hour. Watch the coulouring of the edge and as soon as it starts to turn
golden remove the aluminium foil and beans or crusts. Cook the pastry shell
until the base is baked but not coloured.

Fill the shell with the onion mixture. Put the tart back into the oven.
Check that the temperature is still 150 oC and keep the oven at or just
below this temperature for about 1 hour. Towards the end you could reduce
the heat a little, as the tart needs TO COOK VERY SLOWLY. The tart is ready
if, when you shake it, the filling appears to be quite firm with no hint of
a whole in the centre.

Serve warm, in small slices !

(From: Fredy Girardet, Cuisine spontanee)

