Title: Seafood Pancakes
Categories: Appetizers, Fish/sea, Cakes, Pancakes, Breakfast
Yield: 10 servings
1/2 lb Shrimp, shelled
2 tb Butter
3 tb Flour
1/4 c  Light cream
1 c  Gruyere Cheese
2 tb Parsley, fresh, chopped
1    Salt and pepper
1 1/2 tb Oil for frying
1 c  Flour
1    Pinch salt
1    Egg, lightly beaten
4 ts Oil
1 1/2 c  Milk plus 1 Tbsp
1/2 lb Monkfish
6    Scallops
3/4 c  Milk
2    Garlic cloves, chopped
Servings: 10

Make pancake batter by mixing flour and salt in mixing bowl.  Make well in
center and pour in the egg, 4 tsp oil and 1 cup milk.  Whisk to smooth
batter then add remaining milk.

Remove any skin from monkfish, rinse and cut into bite-size pieces.  Pat
dry. Rinse and pat dry scallops, cut in half.  Pour 3/4 cup milk into
saucepan, add garlic and bring to simmer.  Add all fish except shrimp.
Simmer for 5-6 minutes then add shrimp. When shrimp turn pink remove all
fish to a bowl and set aside. Strain fish milk and reserve for sauce. Place
butter in saucepan and melt, add flour and stir for 2 minutes, then pour in
reserved milk and the cream. Continue to stir and simmer for a few minutes
until you have a smooth sauce. Turn heat to low, add cheese and parsley and
season to taste with salt and pepper. Add fish, mix well.

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.

Place small frying pan or omelet pan over high heat.  Lightly grease it
with a little oil. Beat pancake batter, then pour 3 Tbsp into pan. Turn pan
so bottom is covered evenly with batter and cook for 40-60 seconds, turn
and cook 30-40 seconds longer. Transfer to large plate. Continue with
remaining batter. (There should be enough filling for 10 pancakes.) Place
an equal amount of filling (about 3 Tbsp) in center of each pancake, fold
the sides over filling and arrange in ovenproof dish just large enough to
hold pancakes. Place in oven for 20 minutes, or until the pancakes are hot
through.  Serve immediately.

These thin pancakes, which conceal a tasty mixture of fish, will appeal to
the masked and mysterious side of the Cancerian, who when in need of
refreshment and quiet will reture into his or her own protective shell.
These can be served as a first course or as a luncheon dish for four, with
a green salad and a very chilled white wine.

From:  "A Taste of Astrology"  Posted by:  Grandma Sheila (Exner)

