Title: Turkey with Southwest Stuffing
Categories: Mexican, Poultry
Yield: 8 servings
1 x  Southwest Stuffing
1 x  Turkey; 10 To 12 Lbs
1 x  Butter Or Margarine; Melted
-----------------------------SOUTHWEST STUFFING-----------------------------
1 ts Salt
1/2 ts Thyme Leaves; Dried
1/2 ts Sage Leaves; Dried
9 c  Corn Bread; 1-inch cubes
1 c  Pecans; Chopped
1 c  Chayote; Chopped, 1 Small
4 ea Jalapeno Chiles; *
2 ea Cloves Garlic;Finely Chopped
1 c  Onion; Finely Chopped, 1 Lg
1 c  Margarine Or Butter; Melted
1 tb Fresh Cilantro; Snipped
Prepare Southwest Stuffing.  Fill wishbone area of the turkey with
stuffing.  Fasten neck skin to back with skewer. Fold wings across back
with tips touching.  Fill body cavity lightly. (Do not pack as stuffing
will expand.)  Tuck drumsticks under band of skin at tail or skewer to
tail.  Spoon any remaining stuffing into a small ungreased casserole;
cover.  (Refrigerate leftover stuffing until 30 minutes before turkey is
done.  Bake covered until hot, bout 45 minutes.)  Heat oven to 325 degrees
F.  Place turkey breast side up in roasting pan. Brush with Margarine.
Insert meat thermometer in thigh muscle or breast, not touching the bone.
(Tip of thermometer can be inserted in center of stuffing also) Do not add
water and do not cover.  Roast until done, 3 1/2 to 4 hours. Place a tent
of aluminum foil loosely over turkey when it begins to turn golden. After 2
1/2 hours, cut band or remove skewer holding legs. Turkey is done when the
thermometer placed in the thigh muscle registers 185 degrees or drumstick
meat feels very soft when pressed between fingers. (Thermometer inserted in
the stuffing will register 165 degrees F.) Let stand about 20 minutes
before carving.  As soon as possible after serving, remove every bet of
stuffing from the turkey.  Cool stuffing and turkey promptly; refrigerate
separately, and use within 2 days.

SOUTHWEST STUFFING:

Cook and stir chayote, chiles (* Seed and finely chop chiles), garlic, and
onion in margarine in 10-inch skillet until chayote is tender. Stir in
cilantro, salt, thyme, and sage until well blended.  Stir in about 1/3 of
the cornbread cubes.  Turn mixture into deep bowl.  Add the  remaining
cornbread cubes and pecans.  Toss and fill turkey.

