Title: Cold glazed salmon
Categories: Fish, Appetizers
Servings:  6
7 lb Whole salmon, cleaned, rinse
-, patted dry
8 c  Fish aspic  (see recipe)
1    Turnip
1    Egg yolk, hard cooked, mashe
-
1 ts Unsalted butter
3/4 c  Dry white wine
8    Basil leaves
3    Tarragon (plus more for garn
-sh)
3    Shallots, minced
2    Rosemary
2    Lemon slices
3    Celery leaves
In a small saucepan, combine the wine, basil, 3 tarragon sprigs, shallots,
rosemary, lemon, and celery.  Simmer the mixture for 20 minutes or until
the liquid is reduced to about 3 Tbsp. Lay the salmon on a piece of heavy
foil, twice as long as the fish. Pick up edges of foil and pour the wine
mixture over the fish. Season with salt and fold the foil to enclose it,
crimping the edges tightly to secure them. Put the salmon on a large baking
sheet or roasting pan and bake it in the middle of a preheated 375f oven
for 50-60 minutes or until the fish just flakes. Transfer the package to a
work surface, open foil carefully, and remove the skin from the top of the
salmon below the head to the bottom of the salmon at the tail. Scrape away
any brown flesh, leaving head and tail intact. Drain liquid from the foil,
and using the foil as a guide, invert the fish onto a platter. Remove foil
and skin and prepare the other side of the salmon in the same manner. Chill
the fish, covered, overnight. Peel turnip and cut into thin slices. Trim
each slice to ressemble a flower or cut with a flower cutter. Place in a
bowl of ice water to hold until ready for use. Mash the egg yolk with the
butter and reserve at room temperature. Spoon a thin coat of cool but
liquid fish aspic over the salmon and arrange the additional tarragon
sprigs and turnip flowers decoratively on the fish. Spoon a thin coat of
liquid aspic over the whole. Transfer the yolk mixture to a pastry bag
fitted with a decorative tip. Pipe the mixture into the centers of the
flowers. Chill the salmon for at least 2 hours or up to 6 hours. Serve
surrounded with the chilled aspic, chopped. a 1964 Gourmet Mag. favorite

