Title: Deep chocolate torte with coffee buttercream
Categories: Desserts, Chocolate
Servings:  1
1 tb Hot water
Ganache:
1 1/2 c  Heavy cream
6 oz Bittersweet chocolate, chopp
-d fine
Assembly:
3/4 c  Apricot preserves, heated to
-ukewarm
Chocolate coffee beans for d
-coration
Cake layers:
14 lg Eggs, separated
1 3/4 c  Sugar
9 oz Bittersweet chocolate, melte
- and cooled
Buttercream:
1 c  Sugar
2 lg Eggs
1 1/2 c  Unsalted butter, softened
3 tb Instant espresso, dissolved
-n
Line 2 greased jelly-roll pans, 15x10x1-inch each, with wax paper and
butter and flour the paper, shaking off excess.  In a large bowl with an
electric mixer, beat the egg yolks.  Add slowly 1-1/2 cups sugar, beating,
and beat the mixture until it is thick and pale and forms a ribbon. Add the
chocolate and combine the batter well.

In another large bowl with clean beaters, beat the egg whites until they
hold soft peaks.  Add the remaining 1/4 cup sugar slowly, and beat until
whites hold stiff peaks.  Stir a fourth of the whites into the yolk
mixture, fold in remaining whites gently but thoroughly, and pour the
batter into the pans, spreading it evenly.  Bake the cake layers in the
middle of a preheated 375f oven for 18-20 minutes or until pick test. Let
cake layers cool in the pans, covered with kitchen towels on large racks.
Invert the cake layers onto the racks and remove the wax paper carefully.

In a small heavy saucepan, dissolve sugar in 1/3 cup
Buttercream:
water over moderate heat, stirring.  Bring mixture to a boil, and boil it
until it registers240f on a candy thermometer.

In a large bowl with an electric mixer, beat eggs until they are frothy.
Add sugar syrup in a thin stream, beating, and beat the mixture until it is
cool.  Beat in the butter, one Tbsp at a time. Beat in expresso powder and
a pinch of salt.  Beat the buttercream until it is combined well. If
necessary, chill the buttercream, covered, until it is firm enough to
spread.

In a large heavy saucepan, bring cream just to a boil and
Ganache:
remove from heat.  Add chocolate and stir until it is smooth. Transfer
mixture to a bowl and chill, covered, stirring occasionally, until it is
cool and thickened.  Do not let it solidify.  Beat the mixture until it
just forms soft peaks, but do not overbeat.

Force preserves through a fine sieve into a bowl. Transfer
Assembly:
the cake layers to a work surface. Trim edges and halve each layer
lengthwise.  On a serving plate, arrange one layer, spread with a third of
the preserves, and spread a third of the ganache over the preserves. Top
with another layer and proceed with the preserves, ganache and cake in the
same manner, ending with a cake layer on top. Spread the sides and top of
the cake with a thin layer of buttercream an chill for 30 minutes. Spread
on additional buttercream, leaving about 1/3 cup to make rosettes. With a
pastry comb or tines of a fork, score the buttercream lengthwise. Draw the
back of a knife crosswise across the scored buttercream at intervals.
Transfer the remaining buttercream to a small pastry bag fitted with a
decorative tip. Pipe rosettes on top of the torte along the long sides and
intersperse the rosettes with chocolate coffee beans. Chill.

Remove from refrigerator about 30 minutes before serving.

a 1989 Gourmet Mag. favorite

