Title: Baked Stuffed Nectarines - Country Living
Categories: Fruit, Desserts
Yield: 8 servings
6 tb Whole unblanched almonds
8    1 3/4-inch almond macaroons
6 tb (3/4 stick) unsalted butter,
-softened
1 1/2 tb Sugar
1    Large egg yolk
1/2    To 1 t  kirsch
8 md Firm, ripe nectarines
1 tb Unsalted butter, melted
Creme Anglaise (opt.,
-recipe follows)
Fresh blackberries or
-raspberries (opt.)
Fresh mint sprigs (opt.)
1. Heat oven to 350'F. On rimmed baking sheet, toast almonds 6 to 7
minutes until lightly browned. Chop almonds into 1/8- to 1/4-inch
chunks.

2. Place macaroons between two sheets of waxed paper; using your
hands or rolling pin, crush macaroons into small chunks-not a fine
powder.

3. In small bowl, with electric mixer at medium speed, beat softened
butter and the sugar until light and fluffy. Add egg yolk and
continue beating until light and fluffy again. Beat in crushed
macaroons, almond chunks, and desired amount of kirsch until well
blended.

4. Rinse and dry nectarines; cut in half or lengthwise by slicing
along natural seam and twisting. Remove pits; with small spoon, scoop
out about 1 T nectarine flesh from each half and refrigerate for
another purpose.

5. Increase oven temperature to 375'F. Grease shallow 11-by 9-inch
baking dish; arrange nectarines in dish. Divide macaroon filling
among nectarines; brush tops with melted butter.

6. Bake nectarines 15 minutes or until macaroon mixture is slightly
browned and nectarines are tender when pierced with tip of knife.
(Nectarines should still hold their shape.) Let nectarines stand
about 10 minutes or until cool enough to handle. Using sharp knife,
remove and discard skins of nectarines.

7. Meanwhile, prepare Creme Anglaise, if desired, and spoon some onto
8 serving plates. Place 2 nectarine halves on each plate over Creme
Anglaise; garnish with berries or mint sprigs, if desired. Serve at
room temperature.

Creme Anglaise: In 1-quart saucepan, warm 2 C milk, 3 T sugar, and a
1-inch piece of vanilla bean, split and scraped, until sugar
dissolves. In small bowl, with wire whisk, beat 4 large egg yolks
until smooth but not frothy. Gradually whisk in about a quarter of
warrn milk mixture, then return yolk mixture to saucepan of milk and
cook, stirring constantly over very low heat until a custard forms
that coats the spoon. Strain the custard into a bowl; serve or cool
to room temperature, then refrigerate, covered, until cool.

Nutrition information per serving without Creme Anglaise-protein: 3
grams; fat; 17 grams; carbohydrate: 13 grams; fiber: 1 gram; sodium:
40 milligrams; cholesterol: 54 milligrams; calories: 206

Country Living/April/94  Scanned & fixed by DP & GG
Submitted By MICHELLE HOWE   On   07-10-95

