Title: Basic Pizza Dough (for grilling)
Categories: Pizza, Breads
Yield: 19 oz dough
2 c  (to 2-1/2) Bread flour
1 ts Salt
1 tb Olive oil
1 c  +2 Tablespoons warm water
-(115 degrees Fahrenheit)
1 x  (envelope) Active dry yeast
Place 2 cups of the flour in the bowl of a food processor.  (If you
don't have a food processor, follow the same steps, but use a bowl
and a spoon to mix the dough.)

In a small, separate bowl, blend the yeast with the warm water and 1
tablespoon of flour.  Let the mixture stand about 5 minutes to proof
the yeast.  When it bubbles and foams, pour the yeast mixture through
the feed tube into the food processor with the machine running.  Add
the olive oil and salt, then incorporate more flour if necessary,
until the dough pulls away from the side of the bowl and forms a ball.

Remove the dough from the processor and place it on a floured work
surface. Knead the dough for several minutes, working in flour as
necessary, until the dough is smooth and elastic and no longer
sticky. Shape the dough into a ball and place it in a deep floured
bowl. Cover the bowl with plastic wrap then set it in a warm,
draft-free spot to rise.

After two hours, the dough can be rolled.  For chewier pizzeria-style
crusts, however, the dough should be punched down and allowed to rest
an additional four hours.  The aged or retarded dough can be used
immediateloy or placed in the refrigerator for use the following day.
Let chilled dough return to room temperature before rolling it.

Turn the rested dough onto a floured board and press it into a flat
circle with your finger.  Do not knead the dough again before rolling
it. Shape, top and bake the dough according to the instructions
provided in the pizza recipe you'll be using.

NOTE: The following analysis is based on the whole dough recipe.

Nutritional Analysis Per Crust:  1,188 CALORIES; 18.3g FAT; (2.5g
saturated fat, 14 percent calories from fat); 0mg CHOLESTEROL;
2,138mg SODIUM.

Recipe by Chef Carl Oshinsky, author of "What Your Mother Never
Taught You, the Pizza Gourmet Will" (The Pizza Gourmet, $24.95), as
seen in THE OLYMPIAN, 6/28/95.

Typed by Iris Grayson
Submitted By IRIS GRAYSON   On   07-08-95

