Title: Bloomin' Onion
Categories: Vegetables, Down under
Yield: 4 servings
1    Sweet onion
1    Eggs
1 tb Milk
2 tb Flour
1 c  Cracker crumbs (crushed)
Select a well-rounded onion. Peel outer skin but leave root intact,
cutting off any hanging roots.  With ordinary paring knife, core out
top third of center.  Angle knife for best results.  Divide onion
into four sections, by making 2 cuts crosswise, beginning at the top
and cutting toward the root, stopping about 1/2-inch away.  Cut each
section twice again. Place onion in bowl of enough boiling water to
cover it and leave for 5 minutes. The sections, or "petals," will
begin to open.

Remove onion from hot water and immerse in ice water, which will
further the opening.  Drain well by turning upside down on a paper
towel.

Put flour into paper bag (season with any seasonings you'd
like--Cajun, cayenne, plain ol' s&p, etc), add onion and shake gently
to coat with flour.  Beat egg and milk; roll floured onion in egg.
Put cracker crumbs in paper bag, add onion, and shake gently to coat.
Refrigerate 1 hour before deep frying to set the coating.

Heat oil to 375-380 degrees. If oil isn't hot enough, it will be
greasy and the batter may not stick.  If oil is too hot, outside will
burn before inside is cooked.  Place onion petal-side DOWN in HOT oil
or use a wire basket.  Cook until golden brown, 3-5 minutes.

Cooked onion can be kept for a time in a warm oven.  Serve with sauce
made of Russian dressing and horseradish.

Converted by MMCONV vers. 1.50 Posted by Nancy Coleman Fido Cooking
8/15/94

Rob Stewart's Note:  It's the first time I've seen the "tricks" to
slicing and "opening" the onion up before frying.  And once I read
it, I realized my wife and I do the same thing with scallions before
serving them with tahini sauce.  You simply slice the white end of
the onion for about two inchies in a criss cross pattern (giving six
or eight sections) and then you soak it in cold water.  The ends of
the onion curl back beautifully into a flowerlike design. (8/20/94)

: From "Outback Cafe"
Recipe By

Date: 06-29-95 (23:34) (18)
From: Marjorie Scofield
(E)Recipes

