Title: Carnitas a la Casera
Categories: Meats, Tex/mexican
Yield: 1 servings
1 3/4 lb To 2 lbs Pork butt
1/2 md Onion, cut in half
1 lg Garlic clove
1 tb Ground cumin powder
1 ts Salt
1/4 ts Dried oregano leaf, crushed
Salt or garlic salt
x  Water
Place meat in a 3-quart saucepan  Add water to cover, onion, garlic,
salt, oregano and cumin.  Bring to a boil; reduce heat. Cover and
simmer 2 hours. Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.  Drain meat, reserving
broth for another use.  Place meat in a baking pan. Sprinkle meat
evenly with salt or garlic salt.  Bake 45 minutes. Remove from oven.
While still warm, use 2 forks to shred meat. Makes about 4 cups of
shredded meat. Serve with fresh flour tortillas.  Add condiments as
you choose, e.g., diced tomatoes, diced onions, fresh cilantro leaves
and shredded cheese. Or, whip up some Pico de Gayo (sp).  That is two
tomatoes diced, one half medium onion diced, three tablespoons of
chopped fresh cilantro, one fresh jalapeno pepper (seeds too) and the
juice of one-half nice size lime (not lemon). Mix these ingredients
together real well - best if you let it set in the refrig for a few
hours, covered.  Place your meat in the warm tortilla, topped by a
couple spoons of Pico de Gayo.  I always like the Carnitas best when
I squeeze a little lime juice right over the meat, before I add the
Pico de Gayo.  Course, if 'ya want to, you can go ahead and ruin the
whole thing by mashing up a nicely ripened avocado, and zapping a
couple dabs if it right on top of the meat before adding the Pico de
Gayo. (By now you should have guessed that whatever, 'ya must top of
with Pico de Gayo.) A side plate of fresh fruits, with fresh lime
juice squeezed over them goes real well with Carnitas.  Like
pineapple, mangoes, kiwi fruit, seedless grapes, cantaloupes, mush
melons etc.  The key with the fresh fruit is the fresh lime juice.
Then too, if 'ya really want to spoil things 'ya might whip up a
batch of re-fried pinto or pink beans. Lordy be, do enjoy yourself
Debbie, and all others who take a stab at Carnitas!

On
TO ALL  Submitted By SAM THOMPSON  SUBJ WANTED - CARNITAS
07-12-95

