Title: Casserole Of Duck With Dumplings  - Pt. 2
Categories: Game, Poultry, Vietnamese
Yield: 4 servings  * (Vit Tim An Voi Banh Hap)

3.  Make the dumplings by mixing the flour and boiling water in a
large bowl, a little at a time, with a wooden spoon.  Do not concern
yourself with what it looks like at this stage. 4. Chop the pork to
loosen it and put it in a second bowl.  Slice the shrimp lengthwise
and then cut them into 1/4 inch pieces.  Mix the the pork. 5. Cut the
white cabbage leaves lengthwise into narrow strips and then cross-cut
to dice them. Grind and mix with salt and leave for 5 minutes.
Squeeze dry and add to the meat mixture with the rest of the
ingredients except the flour. Stir until smooth 6. Knead the dough
for a few minutes until it is soft and smooth, dusting with flour if
necessary. Roll it out into a 16 inch long sausage and cut with a
sharp knife into 1 inchpieces. Dip the cut sides in flour, press into
small round cakes with the p 7. Lay a wrapper in the palm of one hand
and put a portion of filling in it with the other. Spread with a
table knife to within 1/2 inch of the edge. Gather the wrapper up and
press the ends to make a little "basket".
Press the back of a knife deep in 8. Skim off the fat from the
casserole after it has been cooking for 3 hours and discard it.
Scatter in the ham, bamboo shoots, and the dumplings. Cover and
simmer for another 5-10 minutes.  Add salt to taste. 9. Serve in the
casserole. Guests help themselves by tearing the bird apart with
chopsticks. If they are not sufficiently proficient, you could chop
it in the kitchen, put the pieces back into the casserole and bring
it back to a boil before serving at

Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.

: "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
Recipe By
Books
See Pt. 1 for ingredients and steps 1 & 2

