Title: Chicken Salad W/Grapefruit, Mint, & Lemon Grass  - Pt. 2
Categories: Poultry, Salads
Yield: 4 servings  * (Thit Ga Tron Voi Buoi,Rau Thom Va Sa).

3.  To make the pancakes, beat the eggs, Nuoc Mam sauce, and pepper
together with 1/2 teaspoon water in a bowl.  Brush the bottom of a
non-stick omelet pan with some oil and placeover moderate heat until
hot. Pour in half the egg mixture and tilt the pan 4. Combine the
garlic, chili, sugar, lime juice, vinegar, and Nuoc Mam sauce in a
bowl. Stir to blend thoroughly.  Set the dressing aside. 5. Drain the
dried shrimp and pound or blend in a blender or processor until very
fine. Set aside. 6. Cover the pork with water and bring to a boil
over a hight heat. Lower and boil for about 30 minutes or until the
juices run clear when the meat is pierced with a knife.  Runcold
water over the pork and set aside. 7. Cook the raw shrimp in boiling
w 8. Sprinkle salt over the cucumber and carrot, and leave to stand
for 15 minutes. Run cold water over them and squeeze dry with your
hands.  It is imperative that the vegetablesare bone dry to ensure
their crunchiness. 9. Dip the beansprouts in salted boiling water for
30 seconds.  Run cold water over them and drain. 10. Cut the egg
pancakes into srips.  combine the egg pancake strips, dried shrimp,
shredded shrimp, chicken, cucumber, carrot, beansprouts, mint, lemon
grass, grapefruit, and sesame seeds.  Mix well with your hands and
pout over the dressing mixture. 11. Transfer to as serving dish or
serve separately, and sprinkle the ground peanuts over it. Garnish
with cilantro. Serve with shrimp chips on which guests place
bite-sized portions of the salad. Alternatively, serve in hollowed
grapefruit shells ins

Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.

: "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
Recipe By
Books
See Pt. 1 for ingredients & steps 1 and 2

