Title: Crispy Roast Duck With Pancakes And Fresh Herbs
Categories: Game, Poultry, Vietnamese
Yield: 4 servings
1 lb Ho Chi Minh duck
(see Duck with Ginger Sauce
Recipe)
12    Wheaten pancakes -- (Asian
Store)
2 c  All-purpose flour
3/4 c  Boiled water
1/2 tb Cold cuts -- water
1 ts Sesame seed oil
MMMMM---------------------VEGETABLE PLATTER--------------------------
1 bn Green onions -- cut into 2"
Lengths
1 1/2 c  Fresh cilantro
1 1/2 c  Fresh mint
1 1/2 c  Fresh basil
1/2    Cucumber, peeled in
Alternating strips
Halved lengthwise and sliced
Thinly crosswise
5 c  Fresh beansprouts
Commercial sweet plum sauce
To accompany
*(Thit Vit Quay An Voi Banh Gio Va Rau Gia Vi). 1. To make the
pancakes sift the flour into a mixing bowl.  Pour in the boiled
water, stirring quickly and then stir in the cold water.  When cool
enough, mold with your hands and form a dough.  Cover with a cloth
and leave for 30 minutes. 2. When ready, knead lightly on a lightly
floured board.  Roll the dough into a sausage shape and cut into 1
inch portions.  This will make about 14 rounds.  With the heel of
thehand flatten into circles of about 2 1/2 inches across. 3. Using a
pastry brush paint half the pieces with the sesame oil.  Place the
remaining pieces onto the oiled surfaces making 7 pairs in total.
With a lightly floured rolling pin roll out each pair to about 6
inches across. Turn them to make them round 4. Fry for 1-2 minutes in
a heavy un-oiled pan until they begin to turn light brown. Turn them
over and repeat.  They will puff up. 5. Remove and separate the two
thin pancakes.  Repeat until all the dough is used up. Put on a plate
and cover with a bloth to prevent from drying. Steam all the pancakes
in asteamer for 7 minutes just before serving with the duck. 6.
Arrange the duck on a plate.  arrange the vegetables on a plate.  Put
some plum sauce into a dish.  Place the pancakes on a flat plate.
Guests place a teaspoon of plum sauce with some duck and vegetables
on a pancake.

Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.

: "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
Recipe By
Books

