Title: Duck Breasts baked in Salt
Categories: Main dish, Poultry, French
Yield: 4 servings
2 lg Duck Magrets**
Freshly Ground Pepper
3 lb Coarse Salt
3 tb Herbes de Provence
4    Egg Whites -=OR=-
Water; to moisten salt
** Duck magrets are - correctly - the breast fillets from ducks
fattened for the production of foie gras. They will come with a
generous layer of sub-cutaneous fat, and be from specially bred large
birds. In France, you can also get Filets de Canette, which are from
ordinary ducks, and should not be used for this dish.

Trim duck breasts and remove and odd hairs and feather stumps if
needed. Score skin of breasts in a crisscross pattern at
approximately 1" intervals, with a thin sharp bladed knife. DO NOT
CUT THROUGH TO FLESH.

Heat a large heavy frying pan over medium high heat. In dry pan,
brown duck breasts (not more than 2 magrets at a time) skin side down
for exactly 3 minutes. Pour off fat and reserve for making saute
potatoes. Leave magrets until ready to finish cooking - 30 minutes
before eating.

Preheat oven to 450F, 230C Gas 8. Sprinkle browned breasts with
pepper. Mix together the salt and herbs, and then add enough egg
white (or water) to make the consistence of damp sand. Make a layer
of salt about 1/2" thick on the bottom of a small roasting tin, just
big enough to hold the two magrets side by side. On top of this salt
layer, place your magrets, skin side up. Now cover them with the rest
of the salt and press firmly to completely seal them with the salt.

Roast exactly 17 minutes on the centre oven rack. Remove from oven;
let stand 10 minutes on a rack (I use the hotbox). Now crack the salt
above the magrets, remove them from their beds and wipe & brush as
much salt as possible from them - use a paper towel.  (Optional -
remove skins and remaining fat from magrets and) Carve them
diagonally into thin slices and arrange overlapping slices in rows
and sprinkle with pepper. Serve immediately.

Note. In the Hotel de France in Auch, where we first had this recipe,
chef Andre Daguin serves this with a sauce "Auchoise". This is a
hollandaise sauce, but made with the duck fat instead of butter. It
is stunning and has LESS cholesterol than the real hollandaise -
which, however, you could also use. I serve with little (1cm) cubes
of oven fried saute potatoes. Submitted By IAN HOARE   On   07-19-95

