Title: Fabulous Apricot Preserves
Categories: Can/preserv, Dips/spread, Fruit
Yield: 7 servings
4 lb Ripe apricots; divided
1/3 c  Fresh lemon juice; strained
6 c  Granulated sugar
2 ts Butter
Scald half the apricots in batches by placing them in boiling water
about 15 seconds, then removing them with a slotted spoon and
dropping them into a bowl of ice water. Drain apricots, strip off
their skins and quarter them; set aside.

Halve and quarter the remaining apricots.

Combine apricots and lemon juice ina nonaluminum bowl; mix gently
with a rubber spatula to distribute the lemon juice. Add sugar and
mix again. Set the mixture aside for several hours, or for as long as
2 days in the refrigerator, stirring gently a few times. Most of the
sugar will be dissolved at this point and the entire mixture will
appear quite juicy.

When ready to proceed with the recipe, wash 7 half pint jars. Keep hot
until needed. Prepare lids as manufacturer directs.

Transfer the apricot mixture to a large pot and set the pot over
medium heat. Add butter and bring mixture to a boil; lower heat and
simmer, uncovered for 15 minutes, stirring fairly constantly to keep
the bottom from scorching. Quite a bit of foam is produced and should
be skimmed off with a spoon.

Now you have to use a bit of judgement: After 15 minutes, if the
surface of the jam is beginning to look very "glisteny" and the
bubbles seem thick and shiny, remove from heat. Otherwise, give the
mixture up to 5 more minutes over the burner, remove from heat and
skim off additional foam if necessary.

Let the preserves sit about 3 minutes, stirring occasionally. Ladle
preserves into one hot jar at a time, leaving 1/4-inch head space.
Wipe rim with a clean, damp cloth. Attach lid. Fill and close
remaining jars. process in a boiling water canner for 10 minutes (15
minutes from 1,001 to 6,000 feet; 20 minutes above 6,000 feet.

Source: Oregonian FoodDay June 1995 Typos by Dorothy Flatman
Submitted By DOROTHY FLATMAN   On   07-04-95

