Title: Fruit Jellies
Categories: Candies
Yield: 6 servings
1/2 pt Strained fresh raspberry
-juice
1 lb Loaf sugar
1 oz Powdered gelatin
Colouring if necessary
2 tb Cold water
10    Drops lemon juice
Raspberry Jellies Prepare raspberry juice by crushing the fruit,
warming it in a bowl over hot water until the juice flows freely and
then straining through muslin. Soak the gelatine in the cold water.
Dissolve the sugar in the juice and boil up to 240 F or the soft ball
stage. Add the lemon juice and gelatine. Re-heat to 240 F and pour
into a tin previously rinsed in cold water.  If the colour is pale
add a few drops of cochineal before the end, but fresh fruit should
give a brilliant colour. When set, loosen the sides with a hot knife
and stand the pan on a cloth wrung out of boiling water.  Turn the
jelly out on to a board. Cut into cubes and roll in very fine
confectioner's sugar. Stand the sweets in a warm place overnight so
that the sugar crystals adhers. Blackcurrant Jujubes 1/2 pint pure
strained blackcurrant syrup 1 oz granulated sugar 1 tablespoon pure
glycerine 6 tablespoon glucose 1 oz powdered gelatine Soften the
gelatine in a little water.  Dissolve the sugar and glucose in the
juice - very slowly, over gentle heat.  Add glycerine and bring to
boiling point. Remove from heat, add gelatine and stir until
dissolved. Re-heat but do not boil. Rinse a 6" sandwich tin with cold
water; pour the jelly mixture in. Proceed as in second paragraph of
directions for Raspberry Jellies. This is a very good sweet for
irritated throats. Fruit Jellies All juicy fruits in season make
delicious sweets.  Proceed as for Raspberry Jellies, using colouring
when necessary to enhance the natural tint. Redcurrants, gooseberries
~ both green and red - blackberries, hips and pineapples are just a
few to be tried.  Fresh pineapple must be well cooked if used with
gelatine, as it contains a natural digestant which dissolves
gelatine. Two methods of Crystallising: CRYSTALLISING CANDIED FRUIT
(This is the chapter that the author said to use for crystallising
the jellies. I assume where it says fruit you would substitute
jellies.) A sparkling finish is much sought after in this class of
sugar work, so here are two recipes-one very simple, the other
correct and of lasting quality. SIMPLE CRYSTALLISING Dip each fruit
very quickly into boiling water-just in and out-drain it on
blotting-paper or butter muslin.  Have ready sufficient sieved
granulated sugar spread upon a sheet of paper to accommodate the
fruits. Roll them gently about in the sugar until completely coated.
Leave in a dry, warm situation for some hours to reduce any moisture.
They will have a satisfying appearance, glistening in the light.
ADVANCED CRYSTALLISING A crystallising tray is much to be desired for
this purpose, but to improvise, a baking tray, deep and able to
accommodate two wire cake racks on top of each other, will serve very
well. Carefully measure how much liquid will be required to cover the
fruits when they rest in the tin. Place one rack in the baking tin,
arrange the fruits upon it so that they do not touch each other or
the side of the pan. Place the second rack feet upwards upon the
fruits, holding them gently in place. Cut a piece of greaseproof
paper the exact size of the interior of your saucepan. Fold it across
and across, then nip the centre point out leaving a hole about 1" in
diameter. Make a syrup by dissolving 2 pounds of granulated sugar in
1 pint (20 ounces) of water. This is your basic recipe- increase it
proportionately if the amount will not cover the fruits in the tin.
They must be entirely immersed. Bring the syrup to a boil and strain
it through muslin wrung out in hot water. Return the syrup to the
saucepan, bringing it up rapidly to 220-225 F, remembering that the
higher temperature gives larger crystals, and is good for imposing
fruits, while 220 F gives finer crystals suitable for cherries,
grapes and nuts. Put the pan where it won't be jarred in the slighest
degree, covering the actural syrup with the prepared circle of paper.
Steam will escape through the central hole. Agitation of the pan will
result in a "grainy" syrup, so tread warily. When slightly cool-about
15 minutes-tilt the saucepan so that the syrup flows gently around
and over the fruits held down by the wire cake rack. Cover with a
cloth and leave for at least 12 hours. Then, if you have a
crystallising tray, draw off the liquid.  Otherwise, gently lift your
tray of fruits from the baking tin.  In eigher case place the fruits
in a warm cupboard to thoroughly dry off once more. They should be
covered with shimmering crystals of a size to suit your taste,
according to the original temperature of the syrup. You will be left
with a quantity of syrup which cannot be used again for
crystallising. It can, however be used to make delicious toffee or to
sweeten stewed fruits. Used with apples in lieu of sugar, it gives a
unique flavour to an Apple Cake.

