Title: Ginger-Garlic Chicken Drumsticks
Categories: Main dish, Poultry
Yield: 1 recipe
3 lb (about) chicken drumsticks
1/4 c  Sesame oil
8    To 10  cloves garlic,
-chopped
4    Slice, (nickel-sized)
-fresh ginger root, cut
-in half, OR
1 ts Ground ginger
1/2 ts Black pepper
1/2 c  Sugar
1/2 c  Teriyaki sauce
1/2 c  Soy sauce
1 c  Water
1 tb Commercial Chinese
-hoisin sauce (if desired)
In large pot, brown drumsticks over medium heat. (All the drumsticks
won't fit for browning at one time.)  Drain any grease from pan.

In a bowl, mix together the sesame oil, garlic, ginger, pepper, sugar,
teriyaki sauce, soy sauce, and water; add to pot.  Add the chicken
and toss to coat in the liquid.

Cook over medium-high heat for 20 to 25 minutes, or until chicken is
cooked through, stirring often.  Remove chicken and set aside. (If
you don't have hoisin sauce, chicken is done at this point.)

Add the hoisin sauce to sauce in pot and cook sauce on high heat for
10 minutes, until sauce starts to thicken.  Stir often or sauce will
burn. Add the chicken and cook an additional 5 minutes, coating
chicken with sauce. Remove slices of ginger.

TO SERVE RIGHT AWAY:  Pour sauce on chicken.

TO SERVE COLD:  Discard sauce (it gets gloppy).

Make 6 servings.

NOTE:  Figure 2 to 3 drumsticks per person and bring a damp cloth for
cleanup.  These are finger-lickin  good, but messy.  The hoisin sauce
makes a nice glaze on the chicken, but is not necessary. Most
supermarkets carry the sauce in the Asian foods section.

VARIATION:  If you prefer to grill or broil the chicken, first
marinate it overnight with the same ingredients, but do not add the
water. Include the hoisin sauce, if available.  The chicken gets much
less of a garlic/ginger flavor when it's marinated this way, but it
is extremely moist and tender.

Per serving with sauce:  approximately 1-1/2 fruit, 5 lean meat, 1/2
: fat; 405 calories, 25 gm carbohydrate, 36 gm protein, 17 gm
: fat, 2390 mg sodium, 101 mg cholesterol, and 34 mg calcium

Recipe:  Newspaper

: Submitted by: David Pileggi
: Area: The Cooking Echo
: Posted on: 15 Jul 95
Submitted By HERMAN KELLY   On   07-19-95

