Title: Gratin de Fruits au Marasquin (Fruit Gratin w/ Maraschino
Categories: Fruit, French
Yield: 6 servings
3    Mangoes
6    Figs
30 ml (2 tbsp) maraschino liqueur
MMMMM--------------------------SABAYON-------------------------------
2    Egg yolks
60 g  (2 oz) icing sugar
1    OO ml (3.5 fl oz) dry white
-wine
30 ml (2 tbsp) maraschino liqueur
Gratin de Fruits au Marasquin (Fruit Gratin with Maraschino Liqueur)

[SERVES 6]

Fruit gratins are now as common in France as their vegetable-based
ancestors. Typically fresh fruit is layered into individual dishes or
arranged on plates covered with a foamy sabayon, and browned under the
grill. A perfect gratin demands careful attention; the sabayon cannot
be made in advance and the gratin must be watched to make sure it
doesn't burn under the grill.

EQUIPMENT: 6 large, ovenproof plates

Peel and cut the mangoes into thin slices. Peel the figs and cut each
lengthwise into 6 slices. Combine the fruit in a shallow container and
sprinkle with the liqueur. Let the fruit macerate at room temperature
for at least 20 minutes.

PREPARE THE SABAYON:

Bring 5-7.5 cm (2-3 inches) of water to simmering point in a large
saucepan. Combine the egg yolks, sugar, wine and liqueur in a large,
heatproof bowl and beat with a whisk or electric mixer until pale
yellow and foamy. Set the bowl over the simmering water (the bottom
of the bowl must not touch the water) and continue beating until the
mixture becomes thick and creamy and increases in volume and the
whisk or beater leaves a clear trail on the bottom of the bowl. Test
the temperature of the sabayon occasionally with a finger: if it
feels hotter than just tepid - the temperature should not exceed 27 C
(80 F) - remove from the heat and beat until slightly cooled. Then
return to the heat and finish cooking.

TO SERVE:

Preheat the grill. Arrange the mango slices in a fan shape in the
centre of each of the 6 ovenproof plates. Surround with the fig
sections. Cover the fruit with the sabayon and place under the grill
for a few minutes until lightly browned. Watch carefully because the
sabayon will colour quickly. Serve hot.

SABAYON:

The sauce you need is based on a foamy mixture called a sabayon (a
cousin of the light, egg-based Italian dessert zabaglione). A
sabayonis made by beating egg yolks with a liquid over simmering
water until thickened and increased in volume (the liquid can be
water, but champagne or wine is often used for a savoury sabayon.)
The sabayon must not get too hot during cooking or it will become
grainy: if it begins to feel warmer than body temperature, remove the
pan briefly from the heat, beating continuously, until the mixture
cools. Then return the pan to the heat and continue cooking. Sabayon
may be served warm or cold; a cold sabayon is beaten off the heat
until cooled. Sabayons may be sweet or savoury. They may be served
simply as asauce, often flavoured with an alcohol, or they may form
the base of some mousse mixtures. They may also be used for sweet or
savoury gratins. Cornflour is sometimes added for stability.

copyright (c) 1991 Le Cordon Blue">

