Title: Helen's Apricot Delight
Categories: Candies, Fruit
Yield: 1 servings
1/4 c  (scant) apricot paste* (or
Try apricot leather)
1 c  Boiling water
2 c  Granulated sugar
1    Box Sure Jell
1/2 c  Chopped walnuts
2 tb (scant) powdered sugar for
Coating
*Apricot paste is a thicker, softer version of apricot leather,
available at middle eastern groceries.  Tear or cut the paste into
small pieces and place in bowl or cup. Pour the boiling water over it
and set it aside to dissolve. If it hasn't completely dissolved by
the time the water has cooled, help it along with a hand blender or
use a regular ble nder. Spray a non-stick brownie pan with Pam and
set aside, preferably on a marble slab or other good heat sink. I use
d a 7 1/2 by 11 pan and got 3/8 inch thick candy. A smaller pan would
give thicker candy. Measure the sugar into a large saucepan. Add the
apricot mixture and the pectin powder. Stir over high heat till th e
mixture reaches the soft ball stage. Remove from heat. Stir in
walnuts. Pour mixture into prepared pan. If walnuts ar en't evenly
distributed, adjust this quickly with the spoon. Let the candy cool
while you and your spouse lick the spoo n and scrape the pan. Once
you've scraped and licked as much as you want, set the pan and spoon
to soak in hot, soapy w ater. Pour powdered sugar over top of cooled
candy. Tap to evenly coat the top, then tip the loose sugar into a
small, shallo w bowl. Dip the end of a sharp spatula in the sugar and
use it to cut the candy into 1" squares, with a straight, chop ping
motion. Dip the spatula back into the sugar any time it threatens to
stick. Using clean fingers pull out the cand ies one by one and flop
them about in the sugar to coat all sides. Place coated candies in a
cookie tin for your sister , lined with wax paper. Separate layers
with additional paper. Make a second batch for your husband and
yourself (at l east that's how I did it). Makes 32 pieces.

From: Helen Fleischer

Date: 07-19-95 (06:34) (19)
From: Pat Stockett
(E)Cooking

