Title: Lamb Liver W/Ginger And Cilantro (Gan Cuu Voi Fung Va Ngo
Categories: Meats, Vietnamese
Yield: 4 servings
1 lb Lamb liver
Cut into 1 1/2 inches wide
Strips and
Cut again crosswise into
Strips 1/8 inch
Thick
2 tb Vegetable oil
1 lg Onion cut into wedges about
1 1/2    " wide
2 md Green sweet bell peppers --
Halved
Salt
1 tb Sesame oil
MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
2 tb Nuoc Mam sauce
OR light soy sauce
2 tb Rice wine or dry sherry
2 ts Sugar
2 lg Garlic cloves -- coarsely
Chopped
1 tb Fermented black beans,
Rinsed -- and coarsely
Chopped
2 x  1 inch slices ginger root --
Peeled and ground
1 tb Chopped fresh cilantro
1    Green onion -- coarsely
Chopped
2 ts Cornstarch mixed with 2 tbsp
Water
1.  Bring a large saucepan half full of water to a boil.  Put in the
liver slices and stir until the water begins to puff into a boil
again.  Drain the liver and hold under running cold water to stop the
cooking.  Drain and set aside. 2 Combine the Nuoc Mam sauce, rice
wine, and sugar, and stir until the sugar dissolves. 3. Heat a wok
over high heat and add 1 tablespoon oil.  Scatter in the onions and
peppers, and stir and toss vigorously until they are shining.
Sprinkle in some salt and stir for about 1 minute until the onions
are translucent. Transfer to a dish. 4. Wipe the wok, add the
remaining oil and put in the garlic, black beans, ginger, cilantro,
and green onions, and stir for about 30 seconds to sear them. Add the
liver and stirfor a further 30 seconds. 5. Add the Nuoc mam mixture
and toss and turn the meat.  Add the cooked vegetables and stir them
around so they integrate with the meat.  Add the cornstarch to the
wok, a little at a time, stirring constantly.  Sprinkle in the sesame
oil, toss a couple o

Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.

: "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
Recipe By
Books

