Title: Lone John Sliver
Categories: Fish
Yield: 1 recipe
2 1/2 lb Fish fillets
Oil
1/2 c  Beer
1/2 c  Self-rising flour
MMMMM-------------------------THE BATTER------------------------------
2/3 c  Beer
1/3 c  Lemon juice
1    Egg
1/2 c  Bisquick
1/2 c  Self-rising flour
THE BATTER: In a 1 1/2 quart mixing bowl, with wire whisk, whip 2/3
cup beer, lemon juice, egg, Bisquick, and 1/2 cup self-rising flour
together till smooth. Then let it stand ten minutes at room
temperature before using.  Meanwhile place two soup or cereal bowls
on counter near the stove so that you can work quickly in coating
food and getting it into the hot oil.

In one small bowl put 1/2 cup beer and into the other put 1/2 cup
self-rising flour.  Have a cookie sheet on hand.  Cover half of it
with paper towels for draining the fried foods.  The other half leave
plain for drying the coated food before you dip it into batter.

Allow 1 1/2 to 2 1/2 lbs. fish fillets to serve 4 people.  Cut each
fillet in half to resemble triangles.  Dip 1 piece at a time, first
into beer. Let excess drip off. Coat lightly then in the self-rising
flour.

Place floured pieces on cookie sheet to dry 2 or 3 minutes.  Then
spear piece with 3-tined fork or tip of sharp knife & coat in prepared
batter...evenly but lightly, letting excess drip back into bowl of
batter.

Fry few pieces at a time in 385 to 400 degrees F oil, at least 2 1/2"
to 3" deep in heavy saucepan or use electric fry pan with temperature
control dial to regulate heat of oil.

Allow about 3 or 4 minutes per side for each piece of batter-coated
fish, turning once to brown other side.  Remove from oil with tip of
sharp knife. Drain on paper towel.  Keep warm on cookie sheet in 300
degree F oven till all pieces have been fried.

SHRIMP-DEEP FRIED: Substitute large or jumbo shrimp preferably frozen,
cooked, ready to serve shrimp, that have been completely thawed,
following the Lone John Sliver recipe exactly, using the shrimp in
place of the fish triangles.  Be sure to dip the shrimp 1st in the
beer and then into the self-rising flour before coating in prepared
batter.  Fry as directed for fish in above recipe.  1 pound serves 4.

Lone John Sliver as in Long John Silver

Source:  Gloria Pitzer's Secret Fast Food Recipes 1975 reprinted 1985
Submitted By SANDRA MAY   On   07-20-95

