Title: Peking Duck
Categories: Chinese, Poultry, Main dish
Yield: 4 servings
1    4-1/2 to 5 lb duck
1 ts Salt
8    Green onions
2    (1/4 in.) sliced gingeroot
3 tb Honey
2 tb Cornstarch
1 cn Oven-ready biscuits
1 sm Can plum sauce
A day in advance, clean duck inside & out, dry thoroughly. Season
inside with salt. Tie together stem ends of 2 green onions, place
inside duck cavity with gingeroot.  Bring edges of tail opening
together, stitch with a length of fine wire. Attach another wire to
neck as a handle. Mix 1 qt. water with honey in large wok or small
turkey roasting pan, bring to boil. When boiling, stir in cornstarch
dissolved in 1/4 cup cold water. Continue to stir to consistency of a
thin stream. Lower heat. Holding duck by neck wire, dip into honey
mixture 3-4 times to coat on all sides. Remove duck, suspend over
container in cool place. Set an electric fan towards duck to help dry
the skin. Let duck drip-dry overnight.

Next day: preheat oven to 450 F. Place duck breast side up on flat
rack in roasting pan. Roast 30 minute. Reduce heat to 300 F, turn
duck over. Roast 30 more minutes. Turn duck breast side up again,
roast for final 30 minutes.

Remove biscuits from can, divide each biscuit in 1/2. Bring 2 in.
water to boil in bottom of steamer. Place biscuits in container above
water, cover, & steam 5 minutes. Thinly slice stems of remaining 6
onions into 2-in. diagonal strips. Divide sliced onion between 4
butter plates, place 1 tsp. plum sauce on each plate. Prepare duck
for serving by cutting off drumsticks & wings & placing on platter in
position whole duck should be. Carefully slice off all skin pieces of
about 1 and 2 inches, lay them aside. Slice same size pieces of meat
from bone. Place all carved meat on platter, cover with skin pieces
on outside to make presentation look like a whole duck.

Eat by making sandwich of onion, plum sauce, duck, and skin.

Temperature(s): HOT Effort: AVERAGE Time: 24:00 Source: MADAME WU'S
GARDEN Comments:  WILSHIRE BOULEVARD, LOS ANGELES Comments: WINE: DRY
WHITE Submitted By MICHELLE HOWE   On   07-18-95

