Title: PORK IN CARAMEL SAUCE
Categories: Vietnamese, Meats, Main dish, Herbs/spice
Yield: 6 servings
MMMMM------------------------THIT HEO KHO-----------------------------
1 kg Boneless pork neck
100 ea Sugar
2 1/2 tb Fish sauce
6 sl Of ginger
4 ea Cloves of garlic, crushed
1 ea Stalk of lemongrass, halved
-lengthwise and cut in 5cm
-lengths
Lemon juice, to taste
3 ea Vietnamese mint or
-coriander leaves, or to
-taste
Pickled bean sprouts
-(recipe follows)
Green onion strips, for
-garnish
Starfruit slices
-(optional), for garnish
Extra caramel sauce
-(optional), to serve
-(recipe follows)
Trim pork of fat and cut into 1.5cm pieces. Combine sugar with 2
tablespoons water in a heavy saucepan and stir over low heat until
sugar dissolves. Bring to the boil and cook, without stirring, until
golden. Remove from heat, stir in fish sauce, ginger, garlic and the
pork pieces, and season to taste. Add enough water to cover the pork,
stir well and add lemongrass. Bring to the boil, skim surface and
cook over medium heat for 40 minutes, or until pork is tender. Bring
to a rapid boil and cook until the water evaporates and pork is
caramelised but not dry. Season to taste with a squeeze of lemon
juice and the Vietnamese mint. Serve topped with pickled bean sprouts
and garnish with green onion strips and slices of starfruit. Pass the
extra sauce separately. Serves 6. Pickled bean sprouts: Combine 1/2
cup distilled white vinegar, 1 tablespoon salt and 1 litre water in a
saucepan and bring to the boil. Cool. Pour over 250g bean sprouts and
marin. ate for 1 hour. Drain and serve. Extra caramel sauce: Combine
110g (1/2 cup) sugar with 2 tablespoons water in a saucepan and stir
over low heat until sugar dissolves. Bring to the boil and cook,
without stirring, until golden. Remove from heat and carefully add 2
1/2 tablespoons of fish sauce and 1 tablespoon water. Return to heat
and stir until well combined and smooth, adding a little extra water
if sauce is too thick. Add 4 thinly sliced green onions and season to
taste with pepper.

Submitted By SHERREE JOHANSSON   On   07-09-95

