Title: Poulet a l'Estragon (Chicken in Tarragon Sauce)
Categories: French, Poultry, Main dish
Yield: 6 servings
6    Chicken portions
1 oz Flour, seasoned with
Salt
Pepper
3 tb Oil
1 md Onion, finely chopped
275 ml Medium-dry white wine
275 ml Chicken stock
2    Cloves garlic;peeled&crushed
2    Sprigs fresh tarragon; or
1 ts Dried tarragon
1    Bayleaf
1 sm Bunch of parsley
MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
8    Fresh tarragon leaves
Set the oven at Gas 6/400F/200C.

Coat the chicken portions thinly with the seasoned flour, then fry
them in hot oil over medium heat until a rich brown. Remove from the
pan, drain on paper towels and then put into a casserole.

Add the onions to the same fat and cook gently until softened and
golden (about 5 minutes). Now add the wine to the pan and bubble
fiercely for 2 minutes to reduce its acidity and also to concentrate
the flavor. Add the stock, garlic, tarragon, bayleaf and parsley and
pour over the chicken joints (which should be half-covered by the
sauce).

Cover and cook in the oven for 15 minutes until bubbly, then reduce
the temperature to Gas 3/325F/160C and cook for a further 25 minutes
or until a leg feels tender when pierced with a knife (20 minutes if
breasts only are used). Leave the lid off for a further 15 minutes to
reduce the sauce. If it is still too thin, dish the chicken then boil
down the sauce on top of the stove until syrupy and pour over the
bird.

Garnish with tarragon leaves.

Source : The New Jewish Cuisine by Evelyn Rose. Typed by Heiko
Ebeling.

I've tried several versions of this dish before and I think this one
suits my taste best.  In my opinion the ingredient list calls for a
little too much liquid.  I'd go with the indication given in the
instructions instead: the chicken pieces should be half-covered.
Also, I found it isn't absolutely necessary to use chicken stock.
This recipe works very well too if you use water instead.  -Heiko.
Submitted By HEIKO EBELING   On   07-16-95

