Title: RED BRAISED PORK SHOULDER
Categories: Meats, Usenet
Yield: 10 servings
Pork shoulder (5 to 7 lb),
-with bone and rind
Water
3/4 c  Sherry (dry)
-or Shaoxing wine
1/3 c  Dark soy sauce
Chinese yellow rock sugar,
-6 crystals (each crystal
-about 1 inch square)
1 1/2 ts Salt (or to taste)
6    Star anise cloves
1    Cinnamon stick
-(about 2 inches long)
4 sm Chili peppers,
-dried (optional)
Tangerine peel, dried,
-3 pieces (optional)
6    Garlic cloves (crushed)
4 sl Ginger (thick)
1    Scallion (whole), trimmed
2    Spinach bunches, washed
Put the pork in a large pot with water to cover.  Bring to a boil,
simmer for 2 minutes, then drain and rinse. Again add the pork to the
pot with fresh water to cover, add the wine, and bring to a boil.
Turn the heat to medium, partially cover, and cook for 30 minutes.
Add the rest of the ingredients (except the spinach), and simmer the
pork for another 2 1/2 to 3 hours. The rind and the fat should be
very soft when it's done.

Remove the pork from the liquid and keep it warm.  Strain the sauce
into a large skillet and reduce it over high heat.  This may take a
while, depending on how much liquid you end up with.

Meanwhile, steam the spinach until just wilted, salt it lightly, and
keep it warm. When the sauce is reduced (it should be the consistency
of a thin syrup), put the pork shoulder in the center of a large
platter, arrange the spinach around it, and pour the sauce over.

NOTES:

*  A Chinese Method of Cooking a Pork Roast -- I got this recipe
originally from the _San Francisco Chronicle_.  It uses some
ingredients that might be hard to get in some parts of the country,
but suggests alternatives. Yield: Serves 10-15.

*  Can substitute about 1/3 C granulated sugar for the rock crystals.

: Difficulty:  moderate.
: Time:  30 minutes preparation, 3-4 hours cooking.
: Precision:  approximate measurement OK.

: Jeff Lichtman
: Relational Technology, Inc., Alameda, California
: {amdahl, sun}!rtech!jeff
: {ucbvax, decvax}!mtxinu!rtech!jeff
:
: Saints should always be judged guilty until they are proved
innocent..

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

