Title: RIGO JANCSI, Part 2 of 2
Categories: Desserts, Hungarian, Usenet
Yield: 1 batch
See Part 1
: Continued from Part 1

TO MAKE GLAZE:   In a small, heavy saucepan, heat the sugar, water and
chocolate over medium heat, stirring constantly, until the sugar and
chocolate are dissolved. Make sure the sugar is fully dissolved or
you will get a grainy glaze. Cover the pan and let the glaze cool for
about 20 minutes.

Set a jelly-roll pan on a table with one short edge propped up.  Put
the rack with the cake on something else so that it is suspended
level over the pan but offset about 2 inches so that you can reach
down into the lower pan with a spoon. Hold the pan with the glaze
about 2 inches over the cake and pour the glaze on the cake. Using a
large spoon, scoop up the glaze that collects in the jelly-roll pan
and put it back on the cake. Keep doing this until the glaze begins
to stop flowing smoothly. You should end up with a thick, even layer
of glaze on the cake.

Refrigerate the cake until the glaze is firm, 10 to 20 minutes.
Serve by cutting into 35 small, equal pieces, 5 in each row across
and 7 in each row down.  For cutting, use a sharp knife that has been
dipped in warm water and wiped off between slices. Keep refrigerated,
but for maximum flavor, allow to come to room temperature before
serving.

NOTES:

*  Serving these chocolate cream slices will guarantee the success of
any endeavor.  The name is pronounced, approximately, rrigo yanshi
(trilled r). This recipe comes from "The Cooking of Vienna's Empire"
and is, of course, Hungarian.  A friend of mine describes the
Hungarians as the people who taught the Viennese how to bake. Yield:
Makes 35.

*  Fine granulated sugar is not the same thing as confectioner's
sugar. Regular granulated sugar will work ok for the glaze, just make
sure it is fully dissolved.  You can avoid lots of chopping by using
chocolate chips; one cup of chips equals about 6 oz. chips.

: Difficulty:  Quite difficult.  For experienced dessert cooks only.
: Time:  several hours.
: Precision:  measure carefully.

: Paul Asente
: Stanford University, Palo Alto, California, USA
: asente@cascade.stanford.edu
: decwrl!cascade.stanford.edu!asente

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

