Title: Sesame Chicken II
Categories: Poultry, Nuts/grains, Fruit
Yield: 4 servings
1/4 c  Chicken stock
6 tb Fresh lemon juice
3 tb Sugar
2 ts Grated lemon zest
2 ts Plum sauce
3/4 c  All purpose flour
2    Eggs, beaten
1/2 c  White sesame seeds
2 ts Salt
1 ts Ground white pepper
4    Skinless, boneless chicken
-breast halves
6 tb Peanut oil
1 ts Minced fresh ginger
1 ts Minced garlic
1 tb Cornstarch mixed with 1-1/2
-tbps water
Chicken breasts are lightly breaded and then pan fried to reduce the
calories in classic lemon chicken. While it may be tempting to reduce
the sugar in the sauce, remember that sugar accentuates the tartness
of lemon.

SAUCE

sliced scallion greens for garnish

combine the sauce ingredients in a bowl and reserve.  To prepare the
breading, place 1/4 cup of the flour in a large shallow bowl or
plate. In another bowl, beat the eggs, and in a third, combine the
remaining 1/2 cup of flour with sesame seeds and salt and pepper.
Arrange these next to each other on a counter. Wash the chicken
breasts and trim any excess fat. Pound with a mallet or rolling pin
to 1/4 inch thickness. Then dip, one at a time, first in the flour.
Pat off any excess and dip in the egg. Lift the meat, allowing excess
egg to drain back into bowl,and then dip and coat with the flour and
sesame seed batter. Reserve on a platter. Heat 4 tbsp of the peanut
oil in a 10 inch skillet over medium high heat. Fry the chicken
breasts, two at a time, until golden,3-4 minutes per side. (Reduce
the heat to medium if the chicken is browning to quickly) Reserve on
a platter. While the last batch is finishing, heat the remaining 2
tbsp of oil in a small skillet over medium heat. Saute the ginger and
garlic until their aroma is released and then pour in the sauce.

When it comes to a boil, reduce to lowest heat.  Drizzle in the
cornstarch mixture while stirring constantly, and remover from heat
as soon as the sauce thickens. To serve, slice each chicken breast
into 1/2 inch strips along the width and place on dinner plates.
Spoon on the sauce and garnish with scallions. Serves 4.

Origin: Cookbook Digest, May/June 1993 Shared by: Sharon Stevens

