Title: Sugar Substitutes in Baking
Categories: Allergy
Yield: 1 servings
Not all recipes lend
-themselves to substituting
-sugar.  This is a suggested
-list of equivalent
-substitutes for one cup of
-white or brown sugar:
* 3/4 cup maple syrup and reduce the liquid called for by 2 tbsp
* 1 cup honey and reduce liquid called for by 1/4 cup
* 1 cup molasses and reduce liquid called for by 1/2 cup and add 1/2
tsp
baking powder
* 1-1/2 cups sorghum and reduce liquid called for by 1/2 cup
* 1 cup corn syrup (if pure) and reduce liquid called for by 1/2 cup.

1. When a liquid is substituted in a recipe for sugar, omit 1/2 or
1/4 cup of the liquid specified in the recipe.  If your diet allows,
only substitute half the sugar for the liquid sweetener.  This is
especially helpful when baking with rye and oat flours.  Leave baking
a day to develop a better flavour.

2.  For those is disaccharide intolerance, sucrose free baby formulas
can be used as a milk-like drink.

3. Goat's milk combine with sucrose-free soy milk makes a richer
cooked product.

4. Aspartame (trade name Equal) can be sustituted sparingly for sugar
for table top use. It does not work in the heating process.

5. Use the juice from unsweetened fruit such as pineapple or fruits
packed in pear juice instead of a sugar syrup.

6. Consider elimination sugar in June and July if you are allergic to
grass, as cane sugar and grass are related botanically.

7. Club soda contains no sweetening and makes a refreshing drink if
you add peppermint, rum or raspberry flavourings. People with
hypoglycemia (low blood sugar) must NOT use any of the above
sweeteners. Instead, they must use artificial sweeteners in liquid,
granulated or tablet form.

LIQUID EQUIVALENTS:

Liquid: 1/4 tsp   1 ml 1 tsp   5 ml    2 tsp  10 ml    1 tbsp    5 ml
Sugar:    2 tsp  10 ml 8 tsp  40 ml  1/3 cup  75 ml  1/2 cup   125 ml
Tablet: 1/4 gram = 1 tsp sugar 1/2 gram = 2 tsp sugar

Be sure to check labels for other allergens. Some brands are not milk
free. When using artificial sweeteners, be careful not to add too
much or your food with have a bitter taste. It is best to start off
with a very small amount of sweetener and increase it next time, if
necessary. Tablets are cheaper than liquid, but liquid is less bitter
for cooking. When possible, add the sweetener AFTER cooking (ie for
rhubarb or applesauce) Remember that ordinary sugar preserves, adds
bulk, stabilizes and sweetens, whereas artificial sweeteners merely
sweeten. When replacing sugar with artificial sweeteners (especially
a large quantity such as 1/2 cup, you must adjust the other
ingredients to make up for the loss of the sugar properties. Cereal,
fruit and decaffeinated coffee, which usually call for a little
sugar, can with perseverance, be enjoyed without any sweetener at
all. Anyone with hypoglycemia can carry gelatin capsules when away
from home. The proide protein when a snack is impossible to obtain.
Keep them by your bedside and take during the night if you wake up
with any low blood sugar sympoms. Capsules are available at drug
stores.

Origin: The Allergy Cookbook. Shared by: Sharon Stevens, July/95.

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   07-04-95

