Title: Summer Chicken
Categories: Poultry, Main dish
Yield: 6 servings
2    Lemons
2 tb Parsley; chopped (garnish)
3 1/2 lb Chicken, roasting
1 1/4 c  Almond-pistachio butter
5 lg Garlic clove
2 ts Lemon juice (to taste)
1/2 c  Carrot; coarsely chopped
1/2 c  Heavy cream
2 1/2 c  Onions; chopped
Salt
1/3 c  Parsley; chopped
Quarter one of the lemons and put it in the chicken.  Chop the other
and combine it in a deep nonreactive kettle with the garlic, carrot,
onions, and 1/3 cup parsley.

Put the chicken on the vegetable bed, breast side up, and pour in
enough boiling water to come one-third of the way up the sides.
Cover the pot, put it over medium heat, and simmer for 30 minutes.
Using tongs, turn the chicken on its breast, then cook, covered, for
20 minutes more.

By now the breast should be cooked. Take the pot from the heat and the
chicken from the pot.  As soon as it's cool enough to handle, carve
off the breast meat and set it aside, tightly covered.  Cut the rest
of the chicken into serving pieces and return it to the kettle.

Put the kettle over medium heat and cook the chicken, uncovered, for
25 to 35 minutes more, or until it is fully cooked. Set the dark meat
aside with the light, tightly covered; strain the broth and return it
to the kettle.

Boil the liquid over high heat until it is reduced to about 2 1/2
cups-- the exact amount cannot be given because what you actually
want is 2 cups of defatted broth and chickens vary enormously in
fattiness.  Pour the broth into a shallow, heatproof bowl, cool to
tepid, then set in thefreezer until the fat rises and solidifies.
Remove the fat and discard.

Re-warm the defatted broth along with any juices that have escaped
from the reserved chicken meat.  Put the almond-pistachio butter in a
bowl and slowly stir in the warmed broth and lemon juice.  Let the
sauce cool, then whip the cream to limp peaks and fold it in.  Add
salt and additional lemon juice to taste.

Skin the chicken (and bone it if desired).  Arrange the meat on a
wide, shallow platter and pour the sauce over to blanket it.  Cover
and chill for at least 2 hours, up to a full day, then allow to warm
almost but not quite to room temperature before sprinkling with the
last 3 table- spoons of parsley and serving.  Accompany with pita or
crusty French bread for mopping up--and cutting the richness of--the
sauce. An elegant presentation of cold poached chicken with an
almond-pistachio sauce of almost unimaginable richness.  Keep the
rest of the meal light and delicate, so the chicken is neither
overwhelmed nor overwhelming.

Rochester, NY Times-Union, Monday, July 29, 1991
Submitted By SAM WARING   On   07-24-95

