Title: Summer Pudding alla Edna Lewis+
Categories: Fruit, Desserts, British isl, Puddings
Yield: 1 recipe
2 qt Currants, freshly picked
2 pt Raspberries
1 1/2 c  Granulated sugar
12 sl Day old bread, firm but not
-too heavy left out to dry
5 tb Unsalted butter
1/2 pt Heavy cream (not ultra
-pasturized)
MMMMM----------------------EQUIPMENT NEEDED---------------------------
2 quart bowl or nonmetalic
-mold 6 inches deep and
-6 inches wide at the top
The bearer of this recipe, Edna Lewis, said she prepared this pudding
for a James Beard tribute dinner in New York one year. Mayor Koch had
five helpings.

You could use all currants or all raspberries or a combination.

Wash the currants, drain them, then pick off the stiems. Put 2 cups
of the picked currants in a nonmetalic 5 quart pot. Crush the fruit
to extract the juice, then add the remaining currants. Place the pot
over medium heat and simmer for 15 to 18 minutes. Remove from the
burner and add 1 pint of the raspberries. When cool, pour the
contents of the pot into a sieve and press the berries to remove
their seeds and skins. Add sugar to the berry puree and mix well
again. Taste and add more sugar if desired.

Cut the crusts off the slices of bread and discard them. Butter the
bread lightly on one side. Line the bowl with the bread, the
unbuttered side against the bowl, placing a slice on the bottom of
the bowl, then some slices around the sides, cutting when needed, to
have the bread fit neatly in the bowl. Pour a cup of the currant and
raspberry mixture into the bowl and cover with a slice of bread.
Continue alternating puree and bread until the bowl is full. See to
it that the bread is well soaked with the berry mixture-the plate
should fit just inside of the bowl. Then fill a quart jar to weigh 2
pounds and place it on top of the plate. The weight of the jar will
press the juices into the bread and the plate will catch any juice
that is pressed out.

Set in the refrigerator overnight. Reserve any extra berry puree.
Unmold the pudding onto a platter, and spoon over the reserved puree.
Serve with lightly whipped cream.

This recipe came from Edna Lewis' In Pursuit of Flavor.

Summer pudding is served in England. I had a luscious serving of it
while I was there last year. I recommend it-tastes like sunshine!

MM format courtesy Mary Riemerman
Submitted By MARY RIEMERMAN   On   07-02-95

