Title: Sweet and Spicy Couscous Salad
Categories: Salads, Main dish, Nuts/grains, Vegetarian
Yield: 4 servings
1/2 c  Currants
1/4 c  Fresh-squeezed orange juice
1/4 c  Fresh-squeezed lemon juice
1/3 c  Canola or safflower oil
1/4 ts Ground cinnamon
1/2 ts Fine sea salt
1/8 ts Cayenne pepper
3 c  Water
1 tb Canola or safflower oil
1 1/2 c  Couscous
-- preferably whole wheat
1 md Carrot; finely chopped
1 c  Sliced green beans
-OR- yellow wax beans
-- (cut into 1/4" pieces)
1 md Red bell pepper
-- seeded and finely chopped
1/2 sm Red onion; finley chopped
1/4 c  Finely chopped fresh mint
-OR- parsley
MMMMM--------------------------OPTIONAL-------------------------------
1/2 c  Tamari-roasted almonds
-- coarsley chopped
Put the currants, orange juice, lemon juice, 1/3 cup oil, cinnamon,
salt, and cayenne in a jar.  Cover with the lid and shake until the
ingredients are well mixed.

In a medium saucepan, bring the water and 1 tablespoon oil to a boil.
Stir in the couscous.  Immediately remove from the heat, cover, and
let stand until the water is absorbed, about 6 minutes.  Transfer the
couscous to a large bowl, and fluff with a fork.  Cool completely.

Put 1 inch of water in a large saucepan with a steamer basket, cover
with the lid, and bring to a gentle boil.  Put the carrot, green
beans, and bell pepper in the steamer basket, cover with the steamer
(lid? -K.M.), and steam until the vegetables are a bright color,
about 3 minutes. Remove the steamed vegetables from the basket; they
should still have a crunch. Rinse under cold water, drain, and cool
completely.

Stir the steamed vegetables, onion, and mint into the couscous. Shake
the Spicy Currant Dressing and pour it over the salad.  Stir until
well coated. Refrigerate for at least 30 minutes to allow the flavors
to blend. Sprinkle the toasted almonds over the top just before
serving and serve chilled. (If the salad is prepared more than a few
hours ahead, adjust the seasonings before serving.)

Source: May All Be Fed - by John Robbins, with recipes by Jia Patton
and Friends

Typed for you by Karen Mintzias

