Title: The Art of Smoking - Part 1
Categories: Bbq/grill
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM-------------------SMOKING BUTCHERS MEAT------------------------
Almost all meats may be
-successfully cooked in the
-smoke oven
With the full smoke
-treatment or, if
-preferred, with little or
-no
Smoke. Some cuts will turn
-out better if they are
-cured before
Smoking.
Correctly used, the smoke
-oven will produce
-better-tasting
Meals++even from the
-cheaper kinds of
-meat++then will
-conventional
Oven-roasting.
MMMMM---------------------NO SMOKE ROASTING--------------------------
The smoke oven may be used for plain roasting simply by omitting to
place any hardwood chips or sawdust on the charcoal or other heat
source. Meat cooked in this way will turn out moist and succulent.
The ordinary kitchen oven applies a dry heat and consequently tends
to dehydrate meat or any other food that is cooked in it. But through
the smoke oven there passes a constant current of fresh air, which
contains a certain amount of moisture, more or less, according to
local climatic conditions. The meat is being cooked in hot, moist
air, and therefore tends to retain more of its original water content
than if it were roasted in the conventional dry-heat oven. It should
be remembered, then, that most of the following recipes can be
varied, according to taste, by omitting the smoke treatment, but
otherwise proceeding as recommended. Oven Temperatures: Long
experience with the smoke oven indicates that the best results are
generally obtained with temperatures not over 250 F. At these
moderate temperatures, cooking is rather slow and moist, and all the
better for that, since it heightens succulence and flavor. It is
recommended, then, that no attempt be made to speed up the
smoke-cooking process by overheating the oven. A Useful Precaution:
If the oven is hot enough to cook a meat loaf or roast, there will be
a tendency for grease to drip from the meat.  If this grease falls on
the smoke baffle, it accumulates there until the oven door is opened
and fresh air is admitted, when it flares up, with possibly dangerous
results. There are two ways to avoid this risk. Six inches below the
oven rack that supports the meat, place a shallow pan, or a tray
improvised by bending up the edges of a sheet of aluminum foil. The
grease from this pan can be salvaged for use in other cooking
operations. Its light smoke flavor will give an interesting touch to
other dishes that have not been cooked in the smoke oven at all! Make
two additional baffles of sheet metal or aluminum foil, pierced with
plenty of holes. Mount one of them two or three inches above the main
baffle, so that it catches the drippings. When grease begins to build
up on this baffle, remove it and put the spare one in its place. How
Much Is Enough?: There can be no cast-iron rules about how long meat
should be smoked, because tastes differ so widely. Wherever it can be
used, the best guide is a meat thermometer.  Stick it into the
thickest part of the meat, avoiding contact with the bone, and
continue smoking until the thermometer indicates the desired degree
of doneness. Bear in mind that many smoke-roasted meats tend to be
rather more red than meat cooked in an ordinary oven to an equivalent
degree of doneness, especially around the bone and joints.  Do not be
misled by this redness, but be guided by reading the meat
thermometer. Pork, by the way, does not show this redness around the
bone and joints. Some cuts, such as spareribs and chops, are not big
enough to hold the meat thermometer. A test for these is to cut
through a fleshy section and see how much red meat shows at the
center, making due allowance for the expected additional redness of
smoke-cooked meat. Of course, if meat has been cured, it will stay
red, like a ham, when cooked, whether it is pork or any other kind of
meat. Pork, as a precaution against trichinosis, should always be
cooked until the thermometer shows Well Done, unless it has
previously been frozen for 21 days at 0 F. The flavor of the finished
meat is easily controlled.  For maximum smoke flavor, give a period
of cold-smoking at 75 to 85 F, then heat the oven to cooking
temperature until the meat is done to taste. The longer the
preliminary cold-smoking, the stronger will be the smoke flavor.
Times given in the following recipes will suit the average palate,
but they may be extended if desired. For a mild smoke flavor, preheat
the oven to 200 to 225 F so that the meat begins to cook at once, and
remains in the smoke for a shorter time. Continued in part 2

TO ALL  Submitted By DENISE LANGLOIS  SUBJ HELP! - NEW SMOKER GRILL
On
07-10-95

