Title: Basic Sponge Cake, Sponge Roll, Or Ladyfingers
Categories: Cake/cookie, Desserts
Yield: 1 servings
2 tb Honey, warmed
1 1/2 c  Whole wheat pastry flour
1 ts Cream of tartar
6    Eggs, separated
1 tb Orange rind, grated
1/2 c  Orange juice
1/2 c  Honey, warmed, plus
Yields about 15 servings
Preheat oven to 325 degrees F.

In a large bowl beat egg yolks at high sped of electric mixer for
about 5 minutes. Add orange rind and orange juice, and beat for
another 5 minutes. Gradually beat in 1/2 cup honey,  1 Tbsp at a time.
Continue to beat until mixture is very thick and smooth, 12 to 15
minutes. Do not underbeat -- the lightness of this sponge cake depends
on the beating process.

Sift flour and fold into egg yolk mixture. Set aside.

In a large bowl beat egg whites until foamy, then add cream of tartar
and beat until mixture forms soft peaks. Gradually add remaining honey
and beat until mixture is stiff but not dry. Gently fold egg white
mixture into egg yolk mixture, using a rubber spatula.

For a 3-layer sponge cake: Pour batter into 3 unbuttered 8-inch round
baking pans, and bake for 20 to 22 minutes, or until tops of layers
are lightly browned. Cool cake completely before removing from pans.
Ice as desired.

For a sponge roll: Place a sheet of parchment or wax paper in a
12x15-inch jellyroll pan. Pour in dough and bake for about 20 minutes.
Remove from oven, loosen edges of cake, and invert on a clean dish
towel. Roll up the cake (with parchment or wax paper still in place)
and cool on a wire rack. To fill, unroll, remove paper, and spread
with filling. Then reroll carefully and place on serving dish,
seam-side down.

For ladyfingers: Place a piece of parchment paper on a baking sheet
and drop batter by tablespoons onto paper, forming fingers about 3/4
inch by 3 inches, spaced 2 inches apart. Bake for about 10 minutes.
Cool for 5 minutes, then remove from paper, and place on a wire rack
to cool completely. This yields 30 ladyfingers.

Source: Rodale's Basic Natural Foods Cookbook, Charles Gerras, Editor

Shared by June Hoffman, 11/93
From: June Hoffman
Submitted By GAIL SHIPP   On   12-26-95

