Title: Bay Scallop Chowder
Categories: Soup/stew, Fish/seafoo
Yield: 12 servings
Wrapped in cheesecloth
1 1/2 lb Yukon Gold potatoes
Peeled, cut in 1/4" dice
2 1/4 c  Heavy cream
2 tb Cornstarch
2 lg Leeks,
White and tender green
Halved lengthwise
Sliced crosswise
1/8 inch thick
1 1/2 lb Bay scallops
Membranes removed
Salt and pepper
1/4 c  Chives, finely chopped
3 tb Butter
2 oz Smoked bacon
Thickly sliced
Finely chopped
1 lg Onion(s), finely chopped
1 lg Garlic clove(s), minced
1/2 ts Crushed red pepper
6 c  Bottled clam broth
6 c  Chicken stock
Bouquet Garni of
2    Bay leaves
5    Parsley sprigs
3    Thyme sprigs
8    Black peppercorns
1. Melt the butter in a large enameled cast-iron casserole. Add the
bacon and cook over moderately high heat, stirring, until lightly
browned, about 2 min. Add the onion and cook, stirring occasionally,
until softened, about 7 min. Stir in the garlic and crushed red
onion(s) and cook, stirring, until the garlic is fragrant, about 2
min.

2. Add the clam broth, chicken stock, and bouquet garni to the
casserole and bring to a boil over high heat. Lower the heat to
moderately high and simmer for 20 min.

Can be refrigerated for up to 2 days. Bring to a boil before
proceeding.

3. Add the diced potatoes to the soup and cook over moderately high
heat until just tender, about 10 min. Discard the bouquet garni.

4, In a medium bowl, whisk  1/4 cup of the heavy cream with the
cornstarch until smooth. Whisk in the remaining 2 cups cream, then
whisk the mixture into the soup. Bring the soup to a boil over
moderately high heat. Add the leeks and cook until just tender, about
4 min.

Can stand at room temperature for up to 3 hours. Rewarm before
finishing.

5. Stir the scallops into the chowder and cook over moderate heat just
until opaque throughout, 2-3 min; don't let the soup boil. Season
with salt and pepper. Ladle the chowder into a tureen or individual
bowls. Garnish with the chopped chives and serve at once.

Food and Wine
December 1995
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   12-22-95

