Title: Butterfly Shrimp
Categories: Chinese, Fish/seafoo, Meats
Yield: 1 servings
-and placed in serving dish
-(optional)
3 tb Vegetable oil (optional)
1/4 c  Sherry (optional)
1 ea The shrimp must be split
-almost in half, but the
-two halves should still
12 ea - 16 large shrimp, cleaned,
-split, dried with paper
-towels
2 ea Eggs
1/8 ts Salt (optional)
12 ea - 16 half slices of lean
-bacon, uncooked
1/2 ea Head of lettuce, shredded
be attached so that when opened up they look like butterfly wings.
Even more important, the shrimp must be split from the underside, or
else the natural curl of the shrimp will force the bacon off when
fried. 2. Coat each shrimp with beaten egg before putting bacon on
the shrimp. The egg mixture is what glues the bacon to the shrimp.
3. Fry with low heat, with the bacon on the bottom.  The low heat
prevents fast shrinkage of the bacon, and gives the egg coating a
chance to bond the bacon and shrimp together.
Prepare shrimp as explained above.  Beat up eggs with salt added.
Place shrimp on platter with split sides up.  Brush liberally with
egg mix. Place a half slice of bacon on each shrimp.
Heat wok or pan hot and dry.  Add the oil.  Turn heat down
immediately to low.  Put shrimp in pan bacon side down.  Cook slowly
until bacon has turned
slightly brown and crisp and the egg has bonded.
Turn each shrimp over carefully and fry the other side about a minute.
Quickly pour in the sherry.  Cover and cook 1 minute.  Place shrimp on
top of lettuce in platter and serve with or without sauce.
Red Sauce
I.    1/2 large Bermuda onion, chopped
II.   1 tsp. msg
1 tbsp. cornstarch
1/2 cup ketchup
1 dash Tabasco
1 cup chicken broth
III.  3 tbsp. vegetable oil
1/8 tsp. salt
Mix together all ingredients in Group II and put aside.  Heat wok hot
and dry.  Add the oil.  Add the salt.  Turn heat to medium.  Add the
onion and fry until golden yellow.  Stir in the Group II mixture until
thickened.  Dip the shrimp in it.
Curry Sauce  Make sauce exactly as above, except substitute 2 tbsp.
curry powder in place of the ketchup.
Over the years I have changed this recipe to include only the shrimp
(jumbo)
eggs, and bacon.  I use no sauce and no oil or sherry and everyone
seems to like it just as well.

Submitted By PAT STOCKETT   On   12-31-95

