Title: Chicken And Cashew Nuts Supreme
Categories: Chinese, Main dish, Poultry
Yield: 1 servings
2 lg Sweet onions, sliced in 1"
-squares
2 cn Water chestnuts (sliced)
SEASONINGS
2 ts Sesame seed oil
2 ts LA CHOY soy sauce
-salt and pepper to taste
2 ts Sugar
4    Heaping t. corn starch
6 tb Water and MSG (optional)
SWEET AND SOUR SAUCE
2 c  Water
3 tb White vinegar
1/2 c  Packed brown sugar
3 tb Apple jelly
1/4 c  LA CHOY Soy Sauce
4 lb Boneless, skinless chicken
-breasts, cut in 1" pieces
-rinsed with cold water in
-a colander and drained
1 lg Can salted Cashew Nut
-halves or 1 large can
-Honey-Roasted Cashew nut
-halves (great with either
-one)
3 c  Peanut or Canola oil
MARINADE
2 ts Salt
2    Eggs (beaten)
-dash pepper
2    Heaping t. corn starch
6 ts LA CHOY soy sauce
VEGETABLES
This is my most requested dish.  It has been perfected over the
years and cannot possibly be improved.  You can serve it with or
without the sweet and sour sauce.  Serve the sauce on the side
along with eggrolls and fried rice.  I love the sauce on the
chicken.  Anyway, you have a dip for your eggrolls too if its on
the side.  I make a large wok full.  You'll want left-overs!
Reheat and enjoy.  This serves about 8 hungry people.  If you
like it, you will quit inviting "hungry people" so you have some
left.....ENJOY MY SPECIAL COMPANY ORIENTAL DINNER......

Heat all sweet and sour sauce ingredients to almost boiling,
melting sugar and jelly.  Add the amount desired of a mixture of
cornstarch and cold water to thicken the sauce to the consistency
you want (for dipping eggrolls, it needs to be thick)

Prepare chicken and vegetables as directed above.  Prepare
marinade by mixing all ingredients well with a fork.  Put chicken
pieces in a large bowl, pour marinade over and mix well to coat
all the chicken pieces.  Let sit for at least 20 minutes.  While
waiting, make the sweet and sour sauce and let simmer, stirring
frequently, keeping it warm.
In a wok or large frying pan, heat oil until hot.  Add cashew
nuts and quick fry for 30 seconds.  Remove from oil and set aside
to drain (try not to leave any nut pieces in the oil).
Stir chicken and marinade, making sure all pieces are coated.
Quick fry chicken in the hot oil until pieces turn white.  Remove
and drain chicken and set aside.  Remove all oil from the pan
except 3 Tbsp. of oil.  Reheat oil and add vegetables.  Stir fry
until the onions turn clear of color.

Return chicken to pan with vegetables.  Mix all well.  Add
seasoning mixture and mix all well again.  Remove from heat and
stir in cashews.  Serve with eggrolls and fried rice.  Spoon the
sweet and sour sauce over the chicken or use the sauce for your
eggroll dip or both.  On the side, your guests get to choose.  It
is really wonderful either way.  Enjoy.

Date: 08-10-94
From: Kountry Cook #1 @1912232

