Title: Chris's Nigerian Stew
Categories: African, Soup/stew, Pasta/rice
Yield: 6 servings
28 oz Can of tomato sauce
1 ts Cayenne
1 c  Raw peanuts; boiled
1 pk Fresh spinach
3 c  Rice
Salt; to taste
2    Ham hocks
1    Stewing chicken or
1 pk Chicken legs and thighs
1 lb Beef short ribs
2    Bay leaves [optional]
Salt; to taste
This dish is cooked in four parts and combined at the table.

This is not a firm recipe by any means; feel free to substitute meats
and season each of the four dishes as you see fit. I learned the basic
recipe years ago from a college roommate from Nigeria.

In the first pot slow simmer ham hocks for 1/2 hour, add the beef
ribs and continue simmering another hour. Then add the chicken and
simmer a final hour or longer if necessary. The meats should be ready
to fall off the bone and swimming in a rich broth. It is the mixture
of meats that creates the delicious gravy. The addition of bay leaves
was my idea not Chris's. His original version had no seasonings
except a little salt.

Meanwhile in a second pot boil the peanuts until softened. Remove
from the heat and hold until a few minutes before serving. Pour off
all the water but the last 1/4 cup. Bring the pot back up to a boil;
add the spinach and stew for a few minutes until cooked.

In the third pot simmer the tomato sauce and cayenne for an hour to
mellow the pepper taste and blend it in with the tomato.

In the forth pot prepare rice. At the table, in each dish make a
foundation of rice; ladle over the meat and pot liquor. Then top
with a little spinach-peanut mixture and smother in tomato sauce.

The Nigerian version was quite bland with just a little cayenne. Some
other students from Ghana made a similar dish that was totally fiery
with loads of cayenne or chopped chiles with the seeds and veins
included! When Muslim students visited us, the pork was of course
omitted.

When I started making it, I seasoned the spinach with chopped onion or
garlic and added Italian style herbs to the tomato sauce. Chris said
it was good but not the way it was made back home. BTW in Nigeria it
wouldn't have been spinach but other greens not available here.

Jim Weller
Submitted By JIM WELLER   On   12-30-95

