Title: Crisp-Fried Egg Noodles w/Assorted Meats/Vegetables
Categories: Vietnamese, Wok, Pasta/rice, Fish/seafoo, Meats
Yield: 8 servings
1/4 c  Oyster sauce
1 tb Soy sauce
Vegetable oil
1 lg Onion - cut into slivers
1/2    Chinese white cabbage or
Chinese kale - cut into
2    Inch pieces
1 c  Fresh snow peas - trimmed
1 lg Carrot - halved lengthwise
And sliced
1/4    -inch thick [cut into design
If desired]
1    15-oz can baby corn -
Drained (optional)
1    15-oz can straw mushrooms -
Drained (optional)
Coriander sprigs - for
Garnish
Nuoc Cham - See recipe
1 lb Fresh thin egg noodles
Peanut oil
12 oz Raw medium shrimp - shelled
And deveined
12 oz Rump OR flank steak
1    Chicken breast - halved and
Boned
4 tb Nuoc mam (Vietnamese fish
Sauce)
1 tb Grated ginger root
6    Cloves garlic - chopped
2 tb PLUS 2 teaspoons arrowroot
OR cornstarch
Freshly ground black pepper
12    Dried Chinese mushrooms
1 tb Dried tree ear mushrooms
1/2 c  Chicken broth
1/4 c  Red wine (optional)
Prepare the Nuoc Cham.  Set aside. Drop the egg noodles into a pot of
boiling water; boil for 1 minute. Rinse the noodles under cold water;
drain well.  Toss the noodles with a little peanut oil to prevent
sticking. Line a large baking sheet with a double layer of paper
towels and spread out the noodles to dry. Halve the shrimp
lengthwise. Set aside. Cut the steak across the grain into thin 2 by
2-inch pieces.  Set aside. Cut the chicken breast lengthwise into
1/4-inch strips, about 3 inches long. Set aside. In a small bowl,
combine 3 tablespoons of the fish sauce, the ginger, half of the
garlic, 2 tablespoons of the arrowroot and 1/2 teaspoon of black
pepper.   Stir to blend.  Coat the shrimp, beef and chicken
separately with the marinade.  Let marinate for 30 minutes. Soak the
Chinese and tree ear mushrooms in hot water for 30 minutes. Drain,
reserving 1/2 cup of the soaking liquid.   Remove and discard the
stems; cut the caps in half if they are large. In a bowl, combine the
chicken broth, reserved mushroom liquid, red wine, oyster sauce and
soy sauce. Add the remaining 1 tablespoon fish sauce and the
remaining 2 teaspoons arrowroot; mix well. Set the sauce aside. Heat
1/2 inch of oil in a wok or skillet to 365F. Add 1/4 of the noodles,
spreading out the strands to form a flat cake. Fry until puffed and
golden, about 1 minute. Turn and cook the other side for 1 minute
longer.  Remove the noodles from the oil with a slotted spatula to
drain on paper towels; place on a large serving platter and keep warm
in a 200F oven.  Continue frying until all of the noodles are used.
Heat 2 tablespoons of oil in a clean wok or skillet.  When the oil is
hot, fry the remaining garlic until fragrant.  Add the shrimp and
chicken and toss over high heat until the chicken turns white and the
shrimp is opaque. Transfer to a large plate. Heat 1 tablespoon more
oil; stir-fry the beef for 1 minute. Transfer to the plate with the
shrimp and chicken. Heat 2 tablespoons more oil.   Add the onion and
fry until translucent. Add the Chinese cabbage, snow peas, carrot,
baby corn and all the mushrooms, stir-frying for 30 seconds after
each addition. Stir in the sauce and cook, stirring, until slightly
thickened and the vegetables are crisp-tender. Return the shrimp,
chicken and beef to the wok; mix well. Remove from the heat. Pour the
stir-fried mixture over the crispy noodles. Sprinkle with black
pepper and garnish with coriander springs.   Serve with Nuoc Cham.

Yield:  6 to 8 servings.

Source: The Foods of Vietnam

Approx. Cook Time:
Marks:
Fat grams    per serving:
Cholesterol  per serving:
Submitted By JIM WELLER   On   12-27-95

