Title: DARK CHOCOLATE AND PUMPKIN CHEESECAKE
Categories: Chocolate, Desserts, Cheese/eggs
Yield: 12 servings
MMMMM----------------CHOCOLATE PECAN COOKIE CRUST---------------------
-cookies*
1 ts Unsalted butter, melted
1 c  Pecan pieces
6    Deep dark chocolate fudge
MMMMM--------------------CHOCOLATE CHEESECAKE-------------------------
3/4 c  Granulated sugar
1/2 ts Salt
3    Eggs
1 ts Pure vanilla extract
8 oz Semisweet chocolate, broken
-into 1/2-oz pieces
1/4 c  Brewed coffee
3/4 lb Cream cheese, softened
MMMMM---------------------PUMPKIN CHEESECAKE--------------------------
1 ts Pure vanilla extract
1 c  Pumpkin,puree
1/4 ts Ground cinnamon
1/4 ts Ground allspice
1/8 ts Ground cloves
2 ts Unsalted butter, melted
1 lb Cream cheese, softened
3/4 c  Granulated sugar
2 tb All-purpose flower
1/2 ts Salt
3    Eggs
MMMMM----------------SEMISWEET CHOCOLATE GANACHE---------------------
Preheat the oven to 325 degrees Fahrenheit. Toast the pecan pieces on
a baking sheet in the preheated oven for 6-8 minutes. Remove from the
oven and allow to cool to room temperature. Lower the oven
temperature ot 300 degrees Fahrenheit.  In a food processor fitted
with a metal blade, chop the cookies and the pecans until they are in
crumbs (to yeild 2 cups) about 20-30 seconds. Set aside until needed.
Coat the bottom of a 9-by 3-inch springform pan with 1 tsp melted
butter.  Use your hands to press l cup of crumbs to a uniform and
level thickness on the buttered bottom of the pan.  Set aside.
To prepare the chocolate cheesecake, heat l inch of water in the
bottom half of a double boiler over medium-high heat.  Place the
semi-sweet chocolate and coffee in the top half of the double boiler
(see page 139). Tightly cover the top with film wrap and allow to
heat for 6 to 8 minutes. Remove from the heat and stir until smooth.
Place 3/4 pound softened cream cheese, 3/4 cup sugar, and 1/2
tsp salt in the bowl of an electric mixer fitted with a paddle. Beat
on low for l minute and on medium for 2 minutes. Scrape down the
sides of the bowl, then beat on medium for 2 more minutes and on high
for 2 minutes.  Scrape down the bowl.  Add 3 eggs , one at a time,
beating on high for 20 seconds and scraping down the bowl after each
addition.  Then beat the mixture for 1 minute more on high.  Add l
teaspoon vanilla extract and beat on medium for l5 seconds.  Add the
melted chocolate mixture, then beat on medium for 30 seconds.  Remove
the bowl from the mixer.  Use a rubber spatula to finish mixing the
batter until it is smooth and thoroughly combined.  Pour the cheese
cake mixture into the prepared springform pan, spreading evenly. Keep
at room temperature while preparing the pumpkin cheesecake batter.
To prepare the pumpkin cheesecake, coat the inside of a 9-by 1
1/2 inch cake pan with l tsp butter.  Line the pan with an 8 inch
square of parchment paper.  Coat the parchment paper with the
remaining tsp butter. Set aside until needed.
Place l pound softened cream cheese, 3/4 cup sugar, the flour,
and 1/2 tsp salt in the bowl of an electric mixer fitted with a
paddle .  Beat on low for l minute and on medium for 2 minutes.
Scrape down the sides of the bowl, then beat on medium for 2 more
minutes and on high for 3 minutes. Scrape down the bowl. Add 3 eggs
one at a time, beating on high for 20 seconds and scraping down the
bowl after each addition.  Add l tsp vanilla extract and beat on
medium for l5 seconds, then beat for 2 more minutes on high.  Add the
pumpkin puree, cinnamon, allspice and cloves, then beat on medium for
30 seconds.  Remove the bowl for the mixer.  Use a rubber spatula to
finish mixing the batter until it is smooth and thoroughly
combined.Pour the pumpkin cheesecake mixture into the prepared cake
pan, spreading evenly.
Place a 9 by 1 1/2 inch cake pan partially filled with 4 cups of
hot water on the bottom rack of the 300 degree oven (the bottom rack
should be at least 3 inches below the center rack).  Place both
cheesecakes on the center rack of the oven and bake for l hour and l0
minutes, until the internal temperature of the cheesecake fillings
reaches l70 degrees. Turn off the oven and allow the cheesecakes to
remain in the oven for an additional 20 minutes.  Remove from the
oven and cool at room temperature for 20 minutes.  Refrigerate the
chocolate cheescake for l hour, but keep the pumpkin cheesecake at
room temperature (do not remove either cake from the pan).
Pour l cup of Semisweet Chocolate Ganache over the top of the
chilled chocolate cheesecake. Spread the ganache evenly over the top
of the cake. Invert the pumpkin cheesecake onto the layer of ganache.
Gently press down on the cake to set in place.  Wrap the entire
springform pan with film wrap and refrigerate for 3 hours to set.
The cheesecake can now be released from the spring form pan.
Remove the film wrap and wrap a damp, hot towel around the sides of
the pan (the towel should be large enough to completely wrap around
and cover the sides of the pan) and hold around the pan for abo*ut l
min.  Carefully relase and remove the springform pan.  Using a cake
spatula, smooth the sides of the cake with 2 to 3 tablespoons
ganache.  Spread the remaining amount of ganache evenly across the
top of the cake.  Press the remaining cookie/pecan crumbs into the
sides of the cake, coating evenly. Refrigerate for at least 30 minute
before cutting and serving.
Heat the blade of the serrated slicer under hot water before
cutting, and run it under hot water after making each slice.  Place a
piece of cheesecake in the center of each plate and serve. *Separate
Recipe "Death By Chocolate" Kenan Books, Inc 15 West 26th Street New
York By Marcel Desaulniers From Rizzoli International Publication,
Inc. Posted by Ken Strei

