Title: EGGPLANT SPAGHETTI SAUCE
Categories: Vegetables, Salsa/sauce
Yield: 6 servings
4 oz Mushrooms cut up (large)
1 tb Fresh Oregano
2 tb Fresh Basil
1 1/2 ts Salt
1 tb Sugar if needed. See Note
-OPTIONS
1/2 lb Italian Sausage  See Note
3/4 lb Ground Meat
3/4 lb Chicken Strips   See Note
1/2 lb Pork Cubed
1/4 c  Corn Oil
1 md Young Eggplant 1 1/2 lb
1 md Onion finely chopped
Red or Vidalia
2 cl Garlic smashed and chopped
2 tb Fresh Parsley
1 c  Italian Tomatoes cut up
2 1/2 cups - 28 oz can
1    Tomato Paste  6 oz.can
1/2 c  Red Wine
: NOTES: Onion, the type of onion will determine the sugar content of
the sauce, taste at 1/2 hour to adjust sugar. Eggplant, peel and cut
into 3/4 inch or so cubes. Wine, any dry wine will do, but Cabernet
Sauvignon is now inexpensive and bold- "Vendange 1992 is what I use."
: PRE-PREP: Mince onion, cube eggplant, smash and mince garlic, mince
parsley, open cans of tomato and tomato paste, pour some wine for
yourself.
: METHOD: Heat oil till v hot, add onions and eggplant and
stir often, the goal is to sweat nearly all of the fluid out of the
vegetables. Add garlic, stir well and give the garlic a minute to
blend. Add Tomatoes, stir well, add wine, and tomato paste, mix to
blend, add parsley, oregano, and basil. Stir to blend well and simmer
uncovered for about 15 minutes stirring often. Add option if desired,
simmer for another 15 minutes. Taste and decide if the sauce needs
some sugar, (sometimes the eggplant are a bit bitter and sugar is
required). Add sugar if required and simmer for another 20 minutes or
so. Add salt and stir well, taste the sauce and adjust seasoning at
this point. MSN=add a dash of cayenne or other chili powder at the
end and stir in to peak the flavors. : The total cooking time is 45
minutes to an hour, of course any sauce will be better the second day.
: OPTIONS: Sausage, Pierce and
steam the sausage to cook through and to exude some of the fat from
the sausage or brown it well and drain the fat. Ground Meat, brown
any lean ground meat in a skillet and drain. Chicken Strips, or
cubes, grill or brown skinned chicken strips, or use turkey or duck.
Pork cubes, grill or lightly brown lean pork chunks.
Some folks will not eat Possum or Beaver unless it is made into this
fine sauce.
~--

