Title: HAGGIS #3
Categories: Scot/irish, Meats
Yield: 6 servings
2 lb Dry oatmeal (the
-old-fashioned, slow-cooking
-kind)
2    Or 3 cups broth (in which
-the liver, heart and lights
-were
Cooked)
Utensils
4 qt Pot with lid
1    Sheep's stomach, thoroughly
-cleaned
The liver, heart, and lights
-(lungs) of the sheep
1 lb Beef suet
2 lg Onions
2 tb Salt
1 ts Freshly ground black pepper
1/2 ts Cayenne or red pepper
1/2 ts Allspice
What you need:
Canning kettle or a large spaghetti pot, 16- to 20 quart size with a
lid to fit it Meat grinder Cheesecloth
What to do:
If the butcher has not already cut apart and trimmed the heart, liver
and lungs, do that first.  It involves cutting the lungs off the
windpipe, cutting the heart off the large bloodvessels and cutting it
open to rinse it, so that it can cook more quickly. The liver, too,
has to be freed from the rest. Put them in a 4-quart pot with 2 to 3
cups water, bring to a boil, and simmer for about an hour and a half.
Let it all cool, and keep the broth.  Run the liver and heart through
the meat grinder. Take the lungs and cut out as much of the gristly
part as you easily can, then run them through the grinder, too. Next,
put the raw beef suet through the grinder.  As you finish grinding
each thing, put it in the big kettle. Peel, slice and chop the
onions, then add them to the meat in the kettle. Add the salt and
spices and mix.
The oatmeal comes next, and while it is customary to toast it or
brown it very lightly in the oven or in a heavy bottomed pan on top
of the stove, this is not absolutely necessary. When the oatmeal has
been thoroughly mixed with the rest of it, add the 2 cups of the
broth left from boiling the meat. See if when you take a handful, it
sticks together. If it does, do not add the third cup of broth. If it
is still crumbly and will not hold together very well, add the rest
of the broth and mix thoroughly. Have the stomach smooth side out and
stuff it with the mixture, about three-quarters full.  Sew up the
openings. Wrap it in cheesecloth,so that when it is cooked you can
handle it. Now, wash out the kettle and bring about 2 gallons of
water to a boil in it. Put in the haggis and prick it all over with a
skewer so that it does not burst. You will want to do this a couple
of times early in the cooking span. Boil the haggis gently for about
4 or 5 hours.
If you did not have any cheesecloth for wrapping the haggis, you can
use a large clean dishtowel.  Work it under with kitchen spoons to
make a sling with which you can lift out the haggis in one piece. You
will probably want to wear lined rubber gloves to protect your hands
from the hot water while you lift it out with the wet cloth. (You put
the dish cloth in the pot only after the haggis is done; you do not
cook the towel with the haggis as you would the cheesecloth.)
Note: Even if the butcher has cleaned the stomach, you will probably
want to go over it again. Turn the stomach shaggy side out and rinse.
Rub it in a sinkful of cold water. Change the water and repeat as
many times as necessary, until the water stays pretty clear and
handling it does not produce much sediment as the water drains out of
the sink.

