Title: HUNGARIAN SZEGED GOULASH
Categories: Main dish
Yield: 6 servings
1 tb Chopped fresh sweet marjoram
-OR- mild oregano
2 ts Chopped fresh thyme
1 ts Salt
1/2 ts Freshly ground black pepper
2 c  Apple juice or cider*
2 lb Sauerkraut; drained & rinsed
2    Tart apples (or more)
-- cored and sliced
1 c  Sour cream
Red potatoes or spaetzle
-or- egg noodles
4 oz Lean bacon
-- cut into 1/2-inch pieces
2 lb Boneless pork
-- trimmed of fat,
-- and cut into 1-inch cubes
1 lg Red onion; chopped coarsely
2 lg Garlic cloves; minced
2 tb Flour
2 tb Sweet Hungarian paprika
2 ts Caraway seed
1 tb Chopped fresh sage
2 ts Chopped fresh rosemary
MMMMM-------------------------TO GARNISH------------------------------
Chopped fresh dill & parsley
*NOTE: Frozen apple juice concentrate, diluted with 2 parts water
instead of 3, may be substituted for apple juice or cider
In a large, deep roasting pan or Dutch oven, saute bacon until crisp.
Remove with a slotted spoon and set aside.  Remove with a slotted
spoon and set aside, leaving 1 to 2 tablespoons of fat in the pan.
Add pork cubes gradually, stirring to brown on all sides.  Stir in
onion and garlic, and cook until onion softens.
Sprinkle flour, paprika, and seasonings over vegetables and meat and
stir to combine, letting mixture brown slightly.  Add apple juice and
sauerkraut; mix well.  Reduce heat, cover, and cook about 45 minutes,
or until meat is tender.  Stir occasionally and add additional apple
juice or water if needed.
During the last 10 minutes of cooking, stir in apples and simmer,
covered, until apples are just tender.  Do not overcook.  Dish can
easily be prepared ahead up to this point and then reheated.
When ready to serve, stir in sour cream, adding a small amount of
liquid if meat mixture is too dry.  There should be plenty of sauce.
Heat through but do not boil.  Serve with steamed (diced or sliced)
red potatoes, spaetzle or noodles (tossed in a small amount of melted
butter to moisten).  Garnish with dill, parsley, and reserved bacon,
broken into pieces.

