Title: MOM'S SPAGHETTI SAUCE
Categories: Salsa/sauce, Main dish
Yield: 10 servings
2 cn Tomato paste small (6 oz.)
4 cn Tomato sauce (15 oz.)
2 tb Sweet Basil
2 tb Italian Seasoning
3 tb Parsley
1 ts To 2 ts salt (to taste)
1 tb Ground black pepper
1 ea 4 Quart Pot
6 ea To 8 Italian Sausages
- And/or
1 lb To 2 lb meat, ground beef
- or ground turkey
1/4 c  Vegetable oil
2 ea Large onions
5 ea To 6 cloves of garlic
You may make this sauce with meat or with sausage or both if you
really want to. The way you do it depends on what you want to do with
it or what you like.

For SAUSAGE start like this;

In your pot, brown sausages very well and remove from pot. Add 1/4
cup of oil to pot, then the two large onions diced fine (not minced),
and then add five to six cloves of minced garlic (or to your taste)
to oil dripping and the onion. Very, very slowly brown onions
stirring often. Do not let it burn or the sauce will taste burned.

For MEAT start like this;

Add 1/4 cup of oil to pot, then the two large onions diced fine (not
minced), and then add five to six cloves of minced garlic (or to your
taste) to oil dripping and the onion. Very, very slowly brown onions
stirring often. Do not let it burn or the sauce will taste burned.

Add your meat and brown, breaking up the meat into the size you want
to eat.

Continue here;

Then to your pot add the two cans of tomato paste, and the four cans
of tomato sauce. Fill paste can (just one paste can) with water and
rinse out both paste cans. Add to pot. Fill sauce can (just one sauce
can) with water and rinse out all four sauce cans. Add to pot. STIR.
If you Cooked the sausages replace them into the sauce now. Add Sweet
Basil, Italian Seasoning and Parsley. STIR. Add black pepper and 1/2
to 1 tsp of salt. STIR and TASTE. Add more salt if you would like.

Bring to a boil (uncovered) then turn down the heat and simmer for
about four (4) hours or until you can't wait any longer. It's best to
cook the sauce for at least two (2) hours to get the flavors to start
to blend. STIR every 30 minutes or so.

ENJOY!!

Entered by Dave Bustin

