Title: New Salmon Coulibiac
Categories: French, Fish/seafoo
Yield: 6 servings
-taste
8    Sheets phyllo pastry 16 x 12
-inches thawed if frozen
8 tb Melted low-fat low-
-cholesterol butter
-substitute
1 lb Salmon fillets - skinned and
-boned cut into 8 pieces
8 lg Sprigs of dill - garnish
1/2 lb White mushrooms
2 tb Low fat cholesterol
-butter/substitute
2 tb Minced shallots
1 c  Cooked barley - cook just
-until tender - don't
-overcook
1/4 c  Chopped fresh dill
2 tb Light sour cream
Salt and black pepper to
Preheat oven to 375 degrees. Lightly butter a baking sheet. Trim the
mushroom stems and wipe caps clean with a damp paper towel. Chop
coarsely. Melt the butter substitute in a non-stick skillet over low
heat. Add shallots and cook, stirring, for 2 minutes. Raise heat to
medium, add the chopped mushrooms and cook, stirring, for 3 minutes.
Remove to a bowl and cool slightly. Fold in barley, chopped dill and
sour cream. Season with salt
and pepper. Unroll the phyllo and cover with a damp kitchen towel.
Working quickly - as phyllo dries easily - place one sheet on a
clean, flat surface,
with the long end facing you. Brush with melted butter substitute.
Fold right hand short side over to left side. Brush again with butter
substitute.
Place one eighth of the mushroom mixture along the new short end
facing you,
1 1/2 inches from the bottom side edges. Place piece of salmon atop
mushroom
mixture. Fold the bottom 1 1/2 inches of phyllo over the salmon and
fold in the sides 1 1/2 inches lengthwise. Continue to roll away from
you like an egg roll, brushing any uncoated surfaces of phyllo with
melted butter substitute. Place seam side down on baking sheet. Cover
with another damp towel. Repeat with remaining ingredients to make 7
more rolls. Bake for 15 minutes or until phyllo is golden. Serve
immediately, garnished with dill sprigs.

NOTE: Recipe can be made several hours ahead up to baking them. Cover
with a
damp towel and wrap well with plastic wrap. Refrigerate. Remove from
refrigerator 1/2 hour before baking.

