Title: PINEAPPLE-MINT SORBET
Categories: Desserts, Fruit
Yield: 6 servings
MMMMM-----------------------FOR THE SORBET----------------------------
Juice of 1 large lime
1    Ripe pineapple, peeled,
-cored, coarsely chopped
3 ts Chopped fresh mint leaves
1/4 c  Sugar
1 c  Water
2 c  Strained fresh orange juice,
-from about 2 lb oranges
MMMMM-------------------PINEAPPLE-MINT GARNISH------------------------
1/4 c  Cointreau (optional)
2 tb Chopped fresh mint leaves
1/2    Ripe pineapple, peeled,
-cored, finely chopped
To make the sorbet:  Combine the sugar and water ina large saucepan
and bring to a boil.  Reduce the heat and simmer for 10 minutes.
Remove from the heat and allow to cool. Meanwhile, combine the orange
and lime juices. Puree the pineapple in a food processor fitted with
a steel blade or blender along with the mint leaves.  Use some of the
orange juice to moisten.  Combine with the orange-lime juice. Stir
the pineapple mixture into the cooled syrup.  Either freeze in an ice
cream freezer or freeze in a covered bowl.  When frozen solid, remove
from the bowl and spoon into a food processor fitted with the steel
blade. Process until fluffy; this breaks up the ice crystals and
results in a smoother texture. To ensure this very smooth texture,
repeat the process one more time after a couple of hours (this step
is optional). Spoon into individual serving dishes, cover with
plastic and then foil, and freeze. Or oil a loaf pan or mold and line
with plastic wrap.  Pour in the sorbet mixture, cover tightly with
plastic wrap and then foil, and freeze. Work quickly so that the
sorbet doesn't melt, or ice crystals will form again when it freezes.
To make the garnish and serve:  Toss together the chopped pineapple
and the Cointreau if you using it.  Add the mint leaves.  Set aside
or refrigerate until ready to serve. Twenty minutes before serving,
place the sorbet in the refrigerator to soften. If you froze it in
the loaf pan, unmold on a platter.  Cut slices using sharp knife. IF
you froze it in individual molds, unmold into bowls. Serve, topping
each serving with the garnish. Advance preparation:  This sorbet will
hold for weeks, covered tightly, in the freezer.  The garnish can be
made several hours ahead of serving time and held in a covered bowl
in the refrigerator. Calories: 86. Fat: .40 g. Sodium 1 mg. Protein 1
g.  Carbohydrate 21 g. Cholesterol 0.

