Title: Pork Tamales
Categories: Main dish, Tex/mexican, Meats, Poultry
Yield: 1 batch
Your favorite red chile)
2 tb Flour
1 tb Baking powder
1 tb Cominos or cumin
1 tb Garlic powder
6 lb Pork meat or turkey
10 lb Fresh corn dough or make
Your own with masa harina*
1    Head of garlic
1 1/2 lb Dry corn husks (hojas)
1/2 lb Pacilla chile (powdered or
Cook the meat in enough water (covering about half of the meat) for
3-4 hours with a whole garlic head.  The juice of the meat is needed
for the dough, so be sure you have enough without adding more as you
cook it. When the meat is cooked, remove from juice and chop.  Put 2
cups of lard in skillet, add meat, flour, salt ( tbsp.), garlic
powder, and pepper, the cominos, pacilla chili and 1 cup of water.
Stir and let cook for 10 minutes or until the spices are blended.
Stir occasionally so that the meat does not stick to the pan.  Remove
from heat.  Put the corn husks (hojas) to soak in hot water.  Usually
in one side of the sink works real well.  When they are soaked about
15 minutes, separate them one by one. Do not tear them.  They come
right off.  If you purchase fresh dough rather than preparing your
own with masa harina, omit the directions in parentheses.  If using
Masa Harina mix according to directions on the bag, and continue with
the following directions.
* (Place corn dough in a large
mixing bowl and add 5 cups lard and 8 tbsp. salt and 1 cup chili
powder and blend until all is the same color.  Add salt if needed.
Then add meat juice and mix with hand until creamy soft, but not
runny.  Watch yourself, because too much liquid will ruin the
consistency of the dough.  Use about 5-6 cups and add more if needed.)

Then spread corn dough onto the corn
husks lengthwise (only half way) with a spoon or spatula.  Put 1
tbsp. of meat onto dough.  Roll and fold in half.  Put them in a big
pan with a good lid.  They cook mostly with vapor.  Line bottom of
pan with corn husks mostly little ones and torn ones.  Then place a
small pan or aluminum mixing bowl in the center, to stand the tamales
up on.  They cook with the fold down and are stacked all the way up
as in layers.  Cover with aluminum foil.  Add 8-10 cups of water with
2 tablespoons of salt, cover and cook for 1 hour, or until the corn
dough falls off the corn husks when you open them.  Be sure you cover
them good.  It is very important in the cooking.  To serve just
remove corn husks and serve with rice or refried beans.  They can be
frozen raw or cooked.
Submitted By DOT SHIELDS   On   12-31-95

