Title: Roast Turkey With Bread Stuffing And Giblet Gravy
Categories: Holiday, Poultry
Yield: 1 servings
-thawed
12 lb To 16 lb frozen turkey,
MMMMM-----------------------BREAD DRESSING----------------------------
1/2 ts Pepper
18 c  White bread cubes
3    Eggs -- slightly beaten
1 c  Broth from the turkey
Salad oil
1 c  Butter or margarine
2 c  Diced celery
1 1/2 c  Chopped onions
1/4 c  Minced parsley
2 1/4 ts Salt
3 ts Poultry seasoning
MMMMM------------------------GIBLET GRAVY-----------------------------
Water
Turkey pan drippings
6 tb All-purpose flour
2 ts Salt
Reserved giblets and neck
1    Celery stalk -- cut up
1/2 c  Chopped onion
1 ts Salt
Bread Stuffing:
In a 8 quart Dutch oven over medium heat in hot butter or margarine,
cook celery and onions until soft, about 10 minutes.  Add parsley,
salt, poultry seasoning and pepper; stir well until thoroughly
mixed. Stir in bread cubes, eggs and broth; mix together well.

Remove giblets and neck from inside turkey and reserve for gravy.
Rinse bird with running cold water; drain well.
Spoon some stuffing lightly into neck cavity (do not pack).  Fold
neck skin over and fasten with skewers.
With bird breast side up, lift wings up toward neck, then fold under
back of bird, so they stay flat and keep neck skin in place.
Spoon remaining stuffing lightly into body cavity.  Close by folding
skin lightly over opening; skewer closed.  Tie legs with string, or
push drumsticks under band of skin or use stuffing clamp.

On rack in open roasting pan, place bird breast side up.  Brush skin
lightly with salad oil.  Insert meat thermometer into meat between
breast and thigh, being careful not to touch bone.
Roast at 325F for 4 to 4 1/2 hours, covering with a tent of foil when
bird turns golden.  Check doneness during last 30 minutes.
Toward end of roasting, remove foil; baste bird with drippings.  Bird
is done when thermometer reads 180 to 185F.

Giblet Gravy:
While turkey is roasting, in saucepan over high heat, heat to boiling
giblets, necks, celery, onion, 1 teaspoon salt and water to cover.
Reduce heat to low; cover; simmer 1 hour until giblets are tender.
Drain, reserving broth; discard celery and onion.  Chop neck meat and
giblets. When turkey is done, remove rack from pan; pour pan
drippings into a 4 cup measure; let drippings stand until fat
separates from meat juice.  Skim 1/3 cup fat from drippings into 2
quart saucepan; skim off and discard any fat remaining on surface of
drippings.  Add reserved broth to roasting pan; stir until brown bits
are loosened.  Add liquid to meat juice in cup to make 4 cups (add
water if necessary). Into fat in saucepan over medium heat, stir
flour and 2 teaspoons salt. Gradually stir in meat juice mixture;
cook, stirring until thickened.  Add reserved chopped giblets and
neck meat; cook until heated through.

Stephanie da Silva  7 Nov 1994

:
Recipe By

Date: 12-10-95 (07:17)
From: Marjorie Scofield
(160) Fido: Recipes

