Title: Timbale Of Fresh Spinach
Categories: Vegetables, Puddings, Cheese/eggs
Yield: 1 servings
2/3 c  Lightly pressed down grated
-cheese (such as a mixture
-of Swiss and/or Cheddar or
-Mozzarella)
2/3 c  Heavy cream
6 dr Hot pepper sauce
-OR-
1/8 ts Cayenne Pepper
Freshly ground black pepper
Butter
2 lb Fresh spinach leaves
-(enough to make 3 cups
-chopped spinach)
6 ea Eggs
2 tb - 3 tb. grated onion
1 ts Salt
4 tb - 5 tb. fresh minced
-parsley
2/3 c  Lightly pressed down crumbs
-from crustless nonsweet
-white bread
1.  Wash spinach leaves and blanch by placing 1/2 of spinach in a
covered casserole and microwaving at full power for 1-1/2 minutes,
stir and microwave for another minute.  Remove spinach and squeeze
excess moisture from leaves, set aside.  Repeat procedure with
remaining spinach.
2.  Process spinach in food processor until finely chopped.  Remove
and toss with some butter, set aside.
3.  Beat the eggs in a mixing bowl to blend; then add all the rest of
the ingredients listed, including choppped spinach.
*Recipe may be completed even a day in advance to this point; cover
and refrigerate.
4.  About 2 hours before serving, butter a 8 cup baking dish or bundt
pan and line bottom with a round of buttered wax paper (not required
if using non-stick cookware).  Preheat oven to 350 F. degrees.  Stir
up the spinach mixture to blend thoroughly and pour into the dish.
Set spinach dish in a larger dish and pour boiling water around to
come two-thirds up the sides of the spinach-filled dish.  Bake in
lower-middle level of oven for half an hour, then turn thermostat
down to 325 F. degrees.  Baking time is around 1-1/4 to 1-1/2 hours,
and water surrounding timbale should almost but never quite bubble;
too high heat can make a custard (which this is) grainy.  Timbale is
done when it has risen almost to fill the mold, the top has cracked
open, and a skewer plunged down through the center comes out clean.
Let rest 10 minutes or more in a turned-off oven, door ajar, before
unmolding.
*May be baked an hour or so before serving; the timbale will sink
down as it cools, but who would ever know how high it might have
been, once it is unmolded?
Serving Suggestions:
Use a bundt pan to bake timbale in and when serving, fill center of
timbale with other vegetables (such as baby carrots, or cauliflower
florets).
Source:  Julia Child & Company
by:  Julia Child

Submitted By FRED TOWNER   On   12-29-95

