Title: VARENYKY (UKRAINIAN FILLED DUMPLINGS)
Categories: Vegetables, Russian
Yield: 8 servings
MMMMM------------------------NOODLE DOUGH-----------------------------
14 tb ;Water
4 lg Egg white; lightly beaten
8 tb Butter, sweet
4 c  Flour
Salt
4 lg Egg yolk
2 tb Oil
MMMMM-----------------------POTATO FILLING----------------------------
1/4 lb Farmer's cheese
2 oz Colby; grated
Salt & pepper; to taste
6 tb Butter, sweet
1 md Onion; finely chopped
3 lg Potato; peel/boil/mashed
MMMMM---------------------SAUERKRAUT FILLING--------------------------
1 1/2 tb Tomato paste
2 ts Sugar
1/3 c  Chicken broth
3 sl Bacon; diced
1 lg Onion; chopped
3 1/2 c  Sauerkraut, packaged*
*Rinse kraut and squeeze thoroughly dry.

Dumplings:  In a food processor, blend the flour and 1/2 teaspoon
salt. With the motor running, add the egg yolks and the oil through
the feed tube, then pour in the water, in a slow, steady stream,
until the dough forms a ball around the blade.  Transfer the dough to
a floured surface and knead until smooth, about two minutes.  Cover
with a linen or cotton (not terry) kitchen towel and let stand half
an hour.

Divide the dough in half and shape into two balls.  Keep one ball
covered with the towel.  On a floured surface with a floured rolling
pin, roll out the dough to a very thin sheet, about 1/16" thick,
making sure it doesn't tear.  With a round cookie cutter, cut out
circles about 3" in diameter. Gather the scraps together into a ball
and set aside, covered.

Have a bowl with the egg white by you.  Place a heaping teaspoon of
the desired filling in the middle of each circle.  Fold the dough
over the filling to form a semi-circle.  Brush the edges with the egg
white and press the edges firmly together with the tines of a fork to
seal.  Place the vareniki as they are made on a lightly floured large
baking sheet about 1" apart and keep covered with a damp tea towel.
When finished with the first batch, roll out the second ball of dough
and make a second batch.  Add the leftover scraps of dough to the
scraps left from the first batch, knead into a ball, and roll out for
a final batch of varenyky.

Meanwhile, in a large pot, bring 6 quarts of salted water to a boil.
Reduce the heat to medium so the water simmers and carefully lower
half the varenyky into the water.  Boil, stirring occasionally with a
wooden spoon to prevent sticking, until they rise to the surface and
are cooked through, six to seven minutes.  With a slotted spoon,
carefully remove the varenyky to a colander and drain thoroughly.
Transfer to a deep serving bowl and toss with half the butter.
Repeat for the second half of the varenyky.

Potato filling:  Melt the butter in a small skilled over medium heat.
Add the onion and saut#, stirring occasionally, until nicely browned,
about 15 minutes.  Remvoe from heat and cool slightly.  In a large
bowl, combine the potatoes and cheese.  Add the saut#ed onion along
with the melted butter and mix well.  Season with salt and pepper and
use for filling the varenyky.

Sauerkraut filling:  Saut# the bacon in a large skillet over medium
heat until it renders its fat.  Remove the bacon and reserve.  Drain
off all but two tablespoons fat.  Add the onion to the skillet and
saut#, stirring frequentlly over medium heat until nicely browned,
almost 15 minutes. Turn the heat up to medium-high, add the kraut,
and saut#, stirring, until softened and cooked throughout, 10 to 15
minutes.  Stir in the tomato paste, sugar, and broth.  Reduce the
heat to low, then cover and simmer for 20 minutes.  Remove from the
heat and cool to room temperature before using to fill the varenyky.
Use the reserved bacon as topping.

