Title: Barley Broth with Chicken
Categories: Soups, Poultry
Yield: 4 servings
1/4 lb Mushrooms
2    Chicken livers, if available
Cold cooked chicken meat *
5 tb Coarsley chopped parsley
1 sm Knob butter
2 oz Pot barley
2 1/2 pt Good quality chicken stock
1    Lemon
1    Fat garlic clove
2    Leeks
*Note: The recipe calls for 1-2 chicken livers, if available, and "shreds
of cold cooked chicken meat, if available".

Grate the zest of the lemon very finely and reserve it.  Put the barley
into a soup pan, add 1 tablespoon lemon juice and cold chicken stock. Bring
to the boil, cover and simmer for about 40 minutes until the barley is
tender with just a hint of bite to the centre of the grain.  Add the
chicken meat, if used, to the pan towards the end of this time to heat it
through gently but thoroughly.

When the barley is nearly ready, slice the mushrooms thickly, and slice the
leeks (tender green parts as well as the white) very thinly indeed so that
the leaves fall into ribbony shreds.  Cut the chicken livers, if available,
into 2 to 3 pieces and saute them briefly in the butter until crusty on the
outside but still pink within.  Fry the mushrooms in the fat remaining in
the pan then reduce the heat and cook the leeks gently for 2 to 3 minutes,
just shaking occasionally.  Then add contents of the frying pan to the soup
pan.  Add the mushrooms and check seasoning.

Put the chicken livers into a warmed soup tureen and crush with a fork to
make a coarse paste.  Add the finely chopped garlic, the lemon zest and
most of the parsley.  Pour on the piping hot soup, stir to mix well,
sprinkle the rest of the parsley on top and serve.

Note: If the soup is not served straight away, but allowed to get cold, the
barley will go on swelling and softening; when reaheated the dish then
seems more like a stew than a soup.  I like it this way but you may prefer
to lift out the grain and cool it down separately from the rest of the
soup.

Source: Philippa Davenport in "Country Living" (British), February 1988.
Typed for you by Karen Mintzias

