Title: Hearty Brisket From "The Only Texas Cookbook"
Categories: Brisket, Beef, Meats, Main dish
Yield: 20 servings
1 tb Salt
5    Cloves garlic, minced
2    Onions, minced fine
2    Stalks celery, minced fine
Pepper, coarsely ground
8 lb Brisket (8 to 10 lb)
1/4 c  Dry red wine
1 tb Molasses
1/4 c  Soy sauce
1 ts Peppercorns
Make a marinade of wine, molasses, soy sauce, peppercorns, salt garlic,
onions, and celery. (You can put onions and celery in processor until
almost pureed.) Lay the boned and trimmed brisket on a large piece of
heavy- duty foil and spread the marinade over all surfaces. Wrap the
brisket tightly. Place in refrigerator and marinate for 24 hours. Open foil
and sprinkle the brisket generously with freshly milled pepper. Reseal,
place in a large open roasting pan (or jelly roll pan). Place in a 200-deg
oven and cook for 8 hours. Remove from oven. Rewrap the meat in a clean
sheet of foil. Reserve pan juices and serve with warm meat. Good hot or
cold on sandwiches. Serves 20
...............................................
Cooking a brisket recalls an elementary law of physics. What happens to
water at 212-deg? It boils away. By cooking a brisket at 200-deg. all the
inherent juices are saved and the meat is made more tender than you ever
imagined. It is important that the cooking sack be completely sealed--a
good method is to use what is called a drugstore wrap. Here's what you do.
You'll probably notice that a brisket is too wide to seal in one width of
foil, so you will need to seal 4 sides. Here's how: Tear off 2 large equal
lengths of foil. Lay 1 on top of the other. Now fold 1 side over twice,
making a narrow 1/2-inch double fold. Open out the 2 sheets, and you'll
have a good seal on the bottom. Lay the meat on top of the seam. Coat all
surfaces with the marinade. Now life the 2 remaining sides of foil up and,
holding them even with each other, fold over and over in 1/2-inch folds
until you have a tight package. Press fold flat against the meat. This is
what should be touching all surfaces of the meat snugly. You just have to
be careful not to puncture it during the cooking and handling process.
When I cook this brisket, I do the whole thin after supper. The first
night I make the marinade and place meat in the refrigerator; the next
night I put it in the oven just before going to bed. By morning it is
cooked to a turn.  A good working woman's scheme. You can eat this for
several days without screaming.

