Title: Rich Venison & Mushroom Stew
Categories: Meats, Main dish
Yield: 6 servings
3/4 pt (scant) beef or game stock
Butter
Oil
Flour
Sugar
Bay leaves
2 lb Good stewing venison
-- (trimmed weight)
1    Onion
3/4 lb Small flat mushrooms
2 1/2 fl Red wine vinegar
2 1/2 fl Water
--------------------------FOR THE FORCEMEAT BALLS--------------------------
1 1/2 tb Lemon juice
1 lg Egg
3 tb Fresh chopped parsley
8 oz Fresh breadcrumbs
8 oz Grated suet
2    Lemons (grated zest only)
Cut the venison into large chunks and marinate for about 24 hours in the
water and vinegar with 2 bay leaves and plenty of pepper.

Make the forcemeat mixture, seasoning it well and binding it with the
lightly beaten egg.  Shape into 24 small balls, fry briskly until golden-
brown and crisp and reserve.  Then fry the mushrooms hard in a very little
hot fat.  Remove and reserve separately.

Drain and dry the meat well, reserving the marinade.  Dust the venison with
well-seasoned flour and brown and seal in batches.  Transfer it to a 4 pint
flameproof casserole; ideally this should be no more than 8 inches in
diameter across the top.  Chop the onion finely and fry gently. Sprinkle on
2 tablespoons flour, pour on the marinade liquid and the stock over the
meat and season with salt, pepper, 1/2 teaspoon sugar and 2 bay leaves.

Bring to a bare simmer, cover tightly and cook over the lowest possible
flame (or in a low oven if you prefer) until the meat is deliciously tender
and the gravy is dark and rich.  Shoulder meat may need as little as 1 1/2
hours, lesser cuts of meat will need considerably more.  Stir occasionally
to prevent sticking.  When ready, remove the bay and check seasoning. Cool
and refrigerate overnight if not to be served on the same day.

To finish the dish, bring everything back to room temperature.  Add the
prepared mushrooms to the stew, pushing them well down into the gravy, then
cover the surface with the forcemeat balls and bake - without a lid to keep
the forcemeat balls really crisp - at 400 F (200 C) gas mark 6 for about 25
minutes.

Source: Philippa Davenport in "Country Living" (British), November 1988.
Typed for you by Karen Mintzias

