Title: Rigatoni with Creamy Artichoke Sauce
Categories: Sauces, Pasta
Yield: 4 servings
1 1/2 c  Whipping cream
Salt and pepper, to taste
1 lb Rigatoni, or other medium
-large tubular pasta
Freshly grated Parmesan,
-to taste
4 md To large artichokes
1 tb Flour
1    Lemon, cut in half
1/2 md Onion, chopped
1    Garlic clove, chopped
2 tb Butter
3/4 c  Broth chicken
Prepare artichokes by bending back the outer leaves until they snap off.
The edible bit at the end should remain on the heart, which you will cook
for the sauce, When all the tough leaves have been snapped off, and only
the tenderest ones remain, trim them with a knife: First strip the stem of
its tough skin, trim the base, and cut off the sharp top of the tender
inner leaves. You now have artichoke hearts. Cut each heart into quarters
and trim the inner choke away, then place the quarters in a saucepan with
water to cover. Mix in the flour and add the lemon halves. Bring to a boil,
reduce heat and cook a few minutes until artichoke quarters are al dente.
Remove from heat, drain, discard the lemon and let artichokes cool. (This
may be done up to 3 days ahead.) Dice artichoke quarters and set aside.
Lightly saute the onion and garlic in the butter. When softened, add the
diced artichokes and cook for a few minutes. Add broth and bring to a boil;
reduce heat and simmer several minutes until artichokes are quite tender.
Add cream and cook through, until sauce is thickened. Season with pepper.
Salt is unlikely to be needed because both broth and Parmesan are salty.
Cook pasta until al dente. Drain and toss with sauce. Sprinkle with
Parmesan and serve immediately. Variation: For a lemony, olivey sauce
rather than a creamy one, omit cream and add 2 to 3 tablespoons chopped
parsley, 5 to 10 pitted and halved Kalamata olives, and a teaspoon or 2 of
capers to the broth, along with artichokes. Cook down until reduced by
about half, then add a squeeze of lemon. Serve on a thin pasta such as
spaghetti. Serves 4 to 6.

