Title: APPLESAUCED MEAT LOAF
Categories: Archives of, Dinner, Fruits, Sauces
1 Lb Lean Ground Beef
Yield: 6 Servings
1 Lb Ground Pork
1/2 c  Dry Bread Crumbs
3/4 c  Minced Onions
1 TB Minced Garlic
2 Lg Eggs
1/2 c  Cold Milk
1/2 c  Ketchup
1 1/2 ts Salt
1 1/2 ts Fresh Ground Black Pepper
1 1/2 ts Ground Allspice
1 1/2 ts Dried Thyme -- Crumbled
1 c  Gingered Applesauce Or
-Store-Bought -- See Recipe
:
3 TB Apple Cider Or Apple Juice
2 TB Light Brown Sugar -- Firmly
-Packed
:
1 TB Dijon Mustard
-Gingered Applesauce-----
:
2 TB Fresh Lemon Juice
4    Sweet-Tart
-Newtown Pippin
:
3 TB Sugar -- Or More If Needed
1 1/2 ts Peeled Fresh Ginger --
-Finely Grated
-Apples, Mcintosh, Cortland,
:
:

1. Preheat the oven to 375 F. Lightly butter a roasting pan. 2.
Combine the beef, pork, bread crumbs, onion, and garlic in a large
mixing bowl. In a separate bowl, lightly beat the eggs. Beat in the
milk, ketchup, and seasonings and add to the meat. Mix with your
hands just until well combined. (A wooden spoon won't do the job as
well as your hands.) 3. Shape the meat into an oval loaf in the
buttered roasting pan and bake until evenly browned, 50 minutes. 4.
Combine the applesauce, apple cider, brown sugar, and heat over
medium heat until the sugar is dissolved, about 2 minutes. 5. Pour
the applesauce mixture over the meat loaf, covering it well, and
continue baking until the top is golden brown, 20 to 25 minutes
longer. Remove the meat loaf from the oven and let it rest for 5
minutes before serving. Makes 6 to 8 entree servings.

GINGERED APPLESAUCE 1. Place the lemon juice in a large saucepan.
Peel, core, and cut each apple into eighths. As you add the apples to
the pot, toss them to coat with the lemon juice to prevent
discoloration. 2. Add 1/3 cup water, the sugar, and grated ginger and
bring to a boil. Reduce the heat to medium-low, cover, and cook until
the apples are tender, 4 to 5 minutes. Remove from the heat and mash
coarsely with a fork. Taste and add more sugar if necessary. The
applesauce should be be a bit chunky.

VARIATIONS: APPLE-HORSERADISH SAUCE: Substitute 1/2 cup of freshly
grated peeled horseradish for the ginger. If desired, add 2 cups
mayonnaise. Great with roast beef.

APPLESAUCE WITH FRESH FRUIT: Substitute 1/2 cup fresh or thawed frozen
raspberries, peaches , or blueberries for the ginger, and stir in 2
Tbs brandy or sake. This is great with game or fowl.

PASSION-APPLESAUCE: Omit the ginger. Just after you remove the pan
from the heat, stir the pulp (seeds and all) of 2 passion fruits into
the applesauce. This goes well with almost anything, especially
grilled sausages, smoked pork chops, and venison.

DESSERT APPLESAUCE: Puree the Gingered Applesauce then thin it with
fresh apple cider to the desired consistency. Use it as a topping for
ice cream, angel-food cake, or pound cake.

: Nicole Routhier's Fruit Cookbook - ISBN 1-56305-565-1
Recipe By

