Title: APRICOT & RAISIN CHUTNEY
Categories: Chutneys
Yield: 1 Servings
1 1/2 lb Dried apricots
1 qt Hot water
10 lg Garlic cloves
1 lg Onion -- chopped fine
1    3" piece of fresh ginger
1 1/4 c  Vinegar -- (see Note at
Bottom)
1 lb Sugar -- (see Note at
Bottom)
1/4 ts Salt -- I use at least 1
Tsp
1/4 ts Cayenne
1 c  Raisins
Makes 5 lbs. Rinse and put the apricots in a bowl with the hot water
(I add the juice of 1 lemon and the cut up lemon peel) Leave to soak
for 4 hours. Chop the garlic. Peel and chop the ginger. Blend the
garlic and ginger with a little of the vinegar  until smooth. Put the
apricots with their soakings water, the onions, the ginger and garlic
mixture into an preserving kettle with the rest of the vinegar. Add
the sugar, salt and cayenne. Bring to a boil and simmer gently for 45
minutes, stirring occasionally to prevent burning.  Add the raisins
and continue cooking until the chutney thickens and begins to turn
shiny. Pack into hot clean jars, cover, process and cool. ~-Note
: I use brown sugar and regular raisins for a dark chutney - I use
white sugar and golden raisins for a golden chutney. I don't blend
the garlic and ginger mixture - I simply mince very small or put
through a garlic press. You can substitute dried ginger for fresh
ginger. Chutney is not supposed to require a hot water bath, because
of the acid level from the vinegar - but I give it a hot water bath
anyway. You can use apple cider vinegar in this recipe. I use a gas
cooktop - and I cook the simmer the mixture with a simmer plate
between the pot and the burners. Be sure you use a heavy bottomed pan
~ to prevent scorching or burning. PS: I always refrigerate the
Chutney after opening the jar. "Sweet chutneys provide a delicious
finishing touch to cold cuts, cheese and salads. This slightly hot,
spicy way of dealing with dried apricots and raisins is an original
and ever popular addition to cold, simple fare? Note - I think the
author meant "traditional" -

: Harrods book of Jams, Jellies and Chutneys
Recipe By

From: Ladies Home Journal- August 1991

