Title: APRICOT EARL GREY TEA ICE CREAM
Categories: Dairy, Fruits
Yield: 1 Batch
1 c  Dried apricots
-(about 6 oz.)
1/3 c  Granulated sugar
2 tb Granulated sugar
1 1/2 c  Whole milk
2 tb Earl Grey tea leaves
1 1/2 c  Heavy cream
1 pn Salt
4 lg Egg yolks
1 tb Apricot brandy or
-Cointreau
In a small heavy saucepan, combine the apricots, 2 tb. of the sugar
and 2/3 c. water.  Bring to a boil over moderate heat. Reduce heat to
moderately low and simmer, uncovered, until apricots are tender, 10
to 12 minutes.

Transfer apricots and any remaining liquid to a food processor and
puree until smooth, scraping down the sides of the bowl once or
twice. Set aside.

In a heavy medium saucepan, combine milk and tea leaves. Warm over
low heat until milk is hot.  Remove from the heat; let steep for 5
minutes. Strain the milk through a fine-meshed strainer.

Return milk to the saucepan and add the heavy cream, remaining 1/3 c.
sugar and salt.  Cook over moderate heat, stirring frequently with a
wooden spoon, until sugar is completely dissolved and the mixture is
hot, 5 to 6 minutes. Remove from the heat.

In a medium bowl, whisk egg yolks until blended. Gradually whisk in
one- third of the hot cream in a thin stream, then whisk the mixture
back into the remaining cream in the saucepan. Cook over moderately
low heat, stirring constantly, until the custard lightly coats the
back of the spoon, 5 to 7 minutes; do not let boil. Immediately
remove from the heat and strain the custard into a medium bowl. Set
the bowl in a larger bowl of ice and water. Let custard cool to room
temperature, stirring occasionally. Whisk in the reserved apricot
puree and the brandy until blended.

Cover and refrigerate until cold, at least 6 hours or overnight. Pour
custard into an ice cream maker and freeze according to the
manufacturer's instructions.

From: linda.magee@salata.com in rec.food.cooking Formatted by Cathy
Harned Submitted By SAM WARING
<SAM.WARING@382-91-12.IMA.INFOMAIL.COM> On WED, 01 NOV 1995 111946 GMT

