Title: ARACINE WITH SARDINES & SAFFRON
Categories: New, Text, Import
2 TB olive oil -- plus 2
tablespoons
Yield: 4 Servings
:
1    red onion, chopped -- into
1/8    -inch dice
1 pn saffron
2 c  Arborio rice
3 c  chicken stock
1 c  grated Pecorino
2    eggs plus -- 2 eggs
separated
:
1 c  basic tomato sauce
8 oz salted sardines, rinsed,
heads removed -- and roughly
ch
:
:
2    sprigs mint
1/4 c  flour for dusting
1/2 c  bread crumbs for coating
Olive oil for frying
:

FOR RICE: In a 4 to 6-quart saucepan, heat 2 tablespoons olive oil
until just smoking. Add half the chopped red onion and saffron and
cook until softened, about 7 to 9 minutes. Add rice and chicken stock
and bring to boil, uncovered. Cook until liquid is absorbed and rice
is tender, about 25 minutes. Spread rice out to cool on a large
cookie sheet, about 1/4-inch to 1/2-inch thick. When rice is cool,
mix with Pecorino, 2 eggs and 2 egg yolks and set aside

FOR STUFFING: In a 10- to 12-inch saute pan, cook remaining chopped
onion in 2 tablespoons olive oil until light golden brown, about 10
minutes. Add tomato sauce, chopped sardines and mint and cook 5 to 7
minutes until reduced by one third and quite thick. Set aside and
allow to cool.

TO ASSEMBLE: Place dusting flour, egg whites and bread crumbs in
separate shallow bowls and lightly beat egg whites. To form aracine,
place 3 tablespoons rice mixture in palm of hand and make an
indentation with the back of a spoon. Spoon 2 tablespoons sardine
mixture into indentation and form an open bowl out of the rice in
your hand. Cover filled portion with another tablespoon of rice
mixture and using both hands, shape the rice into a ball. Continue
with remaining rice mixture and stuffing until done.

Roll each ball in flour, then egg whites, then bread crumbs and
refrigerate 1 hour, uncovered.

Heat 4 inches of cooking oil in fryer or deep frying pan to 375
degrees. Carefully place 3 balls at a time into pan and fry until
golden brown, about 3 to 4 minutes, stirring with tongs or kitchen
spoon to keep them moving. Drained cooked balls on paper towels and
place on large platter and serve either warm or at room temperature.

Yield: 4 servings

:MOLTO MARIO SHOW #MB5688
Recipe By

Date: Fri, 1 Nov 1996 22:32:48
~0500

