Title: ASPARAGUS LASAGNE
Categories: Vegetables, Pastas
Yield: 8 Servings
4 lb Asparagus, trimmed
3 tb Extra-virgin olive oil
6    7 by 6 1/4 inch sheets
No boil lasagne noodles
1/8 lb Unsalted butter
1/4 c  All-purpose flour
1 1/2 c  Chicken broth
1/2 c  Water
7 oz Mild goat cheese
Such as Montrachet
1 ts Freshly grated lemon
Zest, or to taste
1 2/3 c  Freshly grated
Parmesan cheese
1 c  Heavy cream
Cut the tips off each asparagus spear and reserve them. In each of 2
large shallow baking pans toss half the asparagus stalks with half
the oil, coating them well, and roast them in a preheated 500 F oven,
shaking the pans every few minutes, for 5 to 10 minutes, or until
they are crisp-tender.  Sprinkle the asparagus with salt to taste and
let it cool. Cut the roasted asparagus into 1/2 inch lengths and
reserve it.

In a large bowl of cold water let the sheets of lasagne soak for 15
minutes, or until they are softened. In a saucepan melt the butter,
add the flour, and cook the roux over moderately low heat, stirring,
for 3 minutes. Add the broth and the water in a stream, whisking,
simmer the mixture for 5 minutes, and whisk in the goat cheese, the
zest, and salt to taste, whisking until the sauce is smooth.

Drain the pasta well, arrange 1 sheet of it in each of 2 buttered 8
inch baking dishes, and spread each sheet with one fourth of the
sauce. Top the sauce in each dish with one fourth of the reserved
roasted asparagus and sprinkle the asparagus with 1/3 cup of the
Parmesan. Continue to layer the pasta, the sauce, the asparagus, and
the Parmesan in the same manner, ending with a sheet of pasta. In a
bowl beat the cream with a pinch of salt until it holds soft peaks.
Arrange the reserved asparagus tips decoratively on the pasta, spoon
the cream over the pasta and the asparagus tips, spreading it with
the back of the spoon, and sprinkle the remaining 1/3 cup Parmesan on
top.  Bake the lasagne in the middle of a pre- heated 400 F oven for
20 to 30 minutes, or until it is golden and bubbling, and let it
stand for 10 minutes before serving. Serves 8.

