Title: AUGE VALLEY CHICKEN STEW
Categories: France, Poultry, Soups/stews
Yield: 1 Servings
1 lg Chicken, quartered
2    Carrots, peeled and diced
1    Shallot, sliced
4    Pippin apples**
1 lb White mushrooms, washed and
-minced
1/2 c  Butter
1/4 c  Oil
2    Onions - one sliced, one
-studded with cloves
1 c  Dry white wine
1    Clove garlic
Thyme leaves
Bay leaves
Salt and fresh ground black
-pepper
1 c  Creme fraiche or whipping
-cream**
1    Shot glass (1 Tablespoon)
-Calvados**
3    Egg yolks
**For the apples I used Granny Smith's. For the creme fraiche or
whipping cream, I used the whipping cream. For the Calvados - which
would have been too expensive to use, even if I had located it over
here, I substituted an apple flavored liqueur and just added a little
brandy. (Calvados is a dry apple brandy from Calvados in Northern
France - very good, but I couldn't find it locally) In a cast iron
casserole, lightly brown the chicken in half the butter and 2
Tablespoons oil. When all the pieces are nice and golden. add the
carrots, shallots and the sliced onion and cook for a few minutes.
Pour the white wine and 1 cup of water over the chicken, then add the
clove studded onion and the garlic. Add some thyme leaves and bay
leaves and season with salt and pepper. Cover and simmer over low
heat for 40 minutes. (While this was cooking the 40 minutes, I peeled
and minced the mushrooms - I know everyone tells me there is no need
to peel the mushrooms, but I always do <g>) Remove the chicken from
the heat, arrange the pieces of chicken in an ovenproof serving dish
and keep warm. Pass the cooking liquid through a sieve. Set the
vegetables aside and keep warm. Meanwhile melt the remaining butter
in a skillet with the oil, add the apples and cook until just lightly
brown on all sides. Remove the apples from the skillet and arrange
them around the chicken. Keep the dish warm in the oven. Saute the
mushrooms until they have lost all their juices. Set aside to add to
the sauce. To make the sauce: Pour the strained cooking liquid into a
saucepan and set over medium heat. With a whisk, beat in the cream,
the calvados and the egg yolks in that order. Simmer in a double
boiler until it has thickened to a light cream. Stir in the mushrooms
and the vegetables, discarding the clove-studded onion. Adjust
seasoning. Remove the dish from the oven, spoon some of the sauce
over the chicken and pour the remaining sauce into a sauceboat and
serve. From The Cookie Lady's Files

Submitted By   O'LEARY'S

