Title: FRENCH BREAD PUDDING WITH CLEAR RUM SAUCE - COMMANDER'S P
Categories: Desserts, Cajun
Yield: 1 Servings
1 c  Sugar
8 tb (1 stick) butter, softened
5    Eggs, beaten
1 pt (2 cups) heavy cream
-Dash of cinnamon
1 tb Vanilla extract
1/4 c  Raisins
12    Slices, each 1 inch thick,
-fresh or stale French
-bread
-Clear Rum Sauce
1 c  Sugar
2 1/4 c  Water
1    Cinnamon stick or
1 ts Ground cinnamon
1 tb Unsalted butter
1/2 ts Cornstarch
1 tb Light or dark rum
Originally devised as a way to use leftover stale French bread, bread
pudding has become one of the most popular classic New Orleans
desserts. Every cook has his own secret recipe. Commander's version
is served hot from the oven with a thin rum sauce. If you have any
left over, try the recipe for bread pudding souffle that follows.

1. Preheat oven to 350 degrees.

2. In a large bowl cream together the sugar and butter. Add eggs,
cream, cinnamon, vanilla, and raisins, mixing well. Pour into a
9-inch- square pan l 3/4 inches deep.

3. Arrange bread slices flat in the egg mixture and let stand for 5
minutes to soak up some of the liquid. Turn bread over and let stand
for 10 minutes longer. Then push bread down so that most of it is
covered by the egg mixture. Do not break the bread.

4. Set pan in a larger pan filled with water to 1/2 inch from top.
Cover with aluminum foil. Bake for 45 to 50 minutes. uncovering
pudding for the last 10 minutes to brown the top. When done. the
custard should still be soft, not firm.

5. To make the sauce: In a medium-size saucepan combine sugar, 2 cups
water, cinnamon, and butter and bring to a boil. Stir in cornstarch
blended with remaining 1/4 cup water and simmer. stirring, until
sauce is clear. Remove from heat and add rum. Sauce will be thin.

6. To serve: Spoon the pudding onto dessert plates and pass the sauce
separately.

Note: The rum sauce is also good with fresh pineapple. Heat pineapple
"wheels" in it (do not cook. however), then serve on a plate lightly
covered with the sauce.

Date: 18 Feb 94
From: Bill Birner

From: Recipes

