(MEAT)
Title: FRIDAY NIGHT POT ROAST
Categories: Passover, Meats, Main dish
Yield: 8 Servings
4 lb Top or bottom rnd. 2" thick
1 lg Onion, coarse chop
2 lg Carrots, coarse chop
1 ea Bell pepper, seeded,chopped
6 cl Garlic, coarse chop
6 ea Sprigs parsley & dill, 1 bay
Leaf and 1/2 ts. thyme put
Into spice bag.
6 ea Whole cloves
1/2 ts Ea. allspice & curry pwdr.
3/4 c  Apple juice
1 c  Water
1 c  Kosher dry red wine
1 1/2 tb Plain or seasoned olive oil
1 c  Tomato puree (unsalted)
1/4 ts Salt
Watercress for garnish
Put meat into lge. narrow pot or bowl that will just hold it,
leaving room for liquid (cut meat in 1/2 to fit if necessary). In
med. saucepan combine onion, carrots, pepper, garlic, shallots, spice
bag, cloves, spices, apple juice and water.  Bring to boil.  Reduce
heat to simmering & cook for 3 min.  Stir in wine. Pour over meat.
Cover and refrigerate overnight.

Preheat oven to 300 F.  Drain meat, pushing off vegs. Remove and
reserve spice bag.  Strain marinade into bowl, reserving solids. Heat
oil in hvy. Dutch oven over med-hi heat. Brn. meat all over; add
drained vegs. Stir & cook with meat until they begin to soften.

Add reserved marinade, spice bag and tomato puree, turning meat and
spooning several times with sauce. Cover and cook over moderate heat
for 5 min.

Position oven rack to lower third of oven.  Bake 1 hr. Turn meat
and baste.  Repeat turning and basting 3 more times until meat is
tender (3 1/2 to 4 hrs.). Remove pot from oven and let stand 30 min.
Discard spice bag.

Transfer meat to bowl with cover.  Place pot over med. high heat
and bring sauce to boil.  Cook, uncovered, until reduced by 1/4. Let
cool; then pour into another container with tight lid. Refrigerate
meat and sauce until well chilled.

Cut away any congealed fat from sauce.  Pour sauce into wide
heavy-bottom saucepan.  Heat until bubbling. Sprinkle with salt. Cut
meat against grain into 1/4" slices. Immerse in sauce and heat
through. Arrange meat on warmed serving platter in a neat pattern.
Spoon with some of gravy; serve remainder in gravy boat. Garnish
platter with watercress. Frances Prince's New Jewish Cuisine

