Title: FRIED ONION MUMS OR POM POMS
Categories: Onions, Appetizers
Yield: 5 Servings
5    Onion, small to med
4 c  Flour
5 ts Baking powder
2 tb Paprika
1 ts Garlic powder
2 ts Greek seasoning
1 ts Salt; or to taste
Pepper, black; to taste
3    Egg
1 1/2 c  Milk
Oil; for deep frying
Cut off and discard the top half-inch of the onions. Peel them
but do not cut off the root end. Place each onion, root end up, on a
cutting board. With a sharp, pointed knife, make vertical cuts all
around the onion about a quarter inch apart.

Start the cut a quarter-inch from the root for small onions or a
half-inch from the root for very large ones. Make sure the knife goes
into the center of the onion.

Place all the onions in a large bowl of cold water, add ice cubes,
cover and refrigerate several hours or overnight. The onions will
open up like mums. Drain upside-down when ready to proceed. In a
large bowl, mix together thoroughly the flour, baking powder and
spices. In another bowl, beat together the eggs and milk.

Dip the onions one by one into the egg mixture, opening the
petals with your fingers; let the excess drip off, and place in flour.
Work the flour mixture into the center gently with fingertips. Shake
off excess flour and repeat egg dip and flouring, shaking off the
excess thoroughly.

Half-fill a deep fryer or large, deep, heavy pot with oil. (The
author of this recipe used the bottom of her pressure cooker -- a
small electric fryer will NOT do.)

Heat the oil to 360F or until a small piece of dry bread turns
deep gold in 15 seconds.  Fry the onions without crowding them -- one
at a time for large ones ~- keeping them submerged with a spatula or
by placing the frying basket on top of them.  Plunge them in root end
up and turn them over once.

To serve at once, fry large onions for about six or seven minutes,
small ones for five minutes, or until deep gold. Drain upside-down on
paper towels; then invert on a serving plate. Keep warm in a low oven
while frying the others.  Remove the centers of large onions with a
very sharp knife.  Small onions may be left whole or the center can
be scooped out with a melon-ball cutter.  If serving the next day,
fry the onions until pale gold; do not fry completely. Let cool. When
ready to serve, reheat the oil to 380F and fry the onions just long
enough to heat and brown, about 15 seconds.  Drain and serve. To get
the same taste without making mums, simply cut onions ver- tically to
make "petals" or crosswise and separate into rings. This can be done
ahead and the petals or rings kept in ice water. Egg, flour and fry
as above.

