Title: FROSTED APPLE PIE
Categories: Pies
Yield: 8 Servings
1 c  Granulated sugar
2 tb Flour
1 ts Cinnamon
1/8 ts Nutmeg
1/4 ts Salt
7 c  Thinkly sliced, pared tart
Cooking apples (2.5 lbs)
2 tb Lemon juice
2 tb Butter or regular margarine
1    Egg yolk, slightly beaten
MMMMM--------------------------FROSTING-------------------------------
1 c  Confectioner's sugar
1 tb Light corn syrup
1/2 ts Vanilla extract
1/2 c  Chopped walnuts
Prepare crust; shape into a ball.  Divide in half; form each half
into a round, then flatten each with the palm of the hand. On a
lightly floured pastry cloth, roll out half of the pastry into a 12
inch circle. Fold rolled pastry in half; carefully transfer to a 9
inch pie plate, making sure fold is in the center of the pie plate.
Unfold pastry; fit carefully into pie plate.  Refrigerate until ready
to use. Preheat oven to 425F. In small bowl, mix granulated sugar,
flour, cinnamon, nutmet and salt. In a large bowl, toss the apples
with lemon juice. Add sugar mixture to sliced apples; toss lightly to
combine. Roll out remaining pastry into a 12 inch circle.  Fold over
in quarters; cut slits for steam vents. Turn apple mixture into
pastry-lined plate, mounding up high in center. Dot apples with
butter cut in small pieces. Using scissors, trim overhanging edge of
pastry so it measures 1/2" from rim of pie plate. Carefully place
folded pastry so that point is at the center of filling and unfold.
Using scissors, trim overhanging edge of pastry (for top crust) so it
measures 1 inch from edge all around. Moisten edge of bottom pastry
with a little water.  Fold top pastry under edge of bottom pastry.
With figners, press edge together to seal, so juices won't run out.
Press upright to form a standing rim.  Crimp edge. Brust with egg
yolk mixed with 1 tablespoon water.  Bake 45 to 50 minutes, or until
apples are fork-tender and crust is golden.  Remove to rack; cool 30
minutes. Make frosting: In small bowl, combine confectioners' sugar,
corn syrup, 1 tablespoon water and the vanilla; mix until smooth.
Spread over pie; sprinkle with nuts.

