Title: FROZEN ORANGE TRUFFLE SOUFFLES
Categories: Desserts
Yield: 6 Servings
1    Unflavored gelatin envelope
1/2 c  Orange juice, fresh
5    Eggs; separated, room temp.
1/2 c  Superfine sugar
1 ts Grated orange zest
3 tb Orange liqueur (see note)
1 c  Heavy cream; chilled
6    Chocolate Truffles
Strips of orange zest (opt.)
Whipped cream (for garnish)
Note: Grand Marnier or Orange Curacao are suggested orange liqueurs.
Wrap parchement paper or aluminum foil collars around six 2/3-cup
souffle dishes and fasten with tape or string. In a small bowl,
sprinkle the gelatin over the orange juice and set aside until
softened. Place the bowl in a pan of hot water and stir occasionally
until the gelatin dissolves, about 3 minutes.  Set aside in the hot
water. In a double boiler, beat the egg yolks and sugar over barely
simmering water until the mixture is light-colored, creamy and warm
to the touch, about 5 minutes. Remove from the heat and continue to
beat until the mixture cools, thickens and forms a ribbon when the
beater is lifted, about 3 minutes. Stir in the orange zest and
liqueur.  Scrape into a large bowl and set aside. Beat the cream
until it is doubled in volume and forms soft peaks. Beat the egg
whites until they form soft peaks. Stir the gelatin mixture into the
beaten egg yolks. Place the bowl in a larger bowl half-filled with
ice and water and stir with a rubber spatula until the mixture begins
to thicken and mound, 2 to 4 minutes, depending on the type of bowl
used (metal chills faster than glass or ceramic). Immediately remove
from the ice water and fold in the whipped cream. About one-third at
a time, fold in the egg whites until no streaks of white remain; do
not overmix. Spoon 1/2 cup of the mousse mixture into each souffle
dish and place a truffle in the center. Divide the remaining mousse
amoung the dishes to bury the truffles. Smooth the tops, cover
loosely with waxed paper and place on a tray in the refrigerator
until set and chilled, about 2 1/2 hours.  Before serving, remove the
paper collars. Decorate the tops with whipped cream and strips of
orange zest, if desired. Serve chilled.

