Title: FILETS OF SOLE RIVIERA
Categories: Fish
Yield: 6 Servings
3 lg Tomatoes
Salt
12    4" filets of sole
Milk
1/2 c  Flour
Freshly ground white pepper
3    Eggs, lightly beaten
2 c  White bread crumbs
6 tb Oil
3 lg Green peppers, roasted,
-seeded & cut into strips
3 lg Red peppers, roasted,
-seeded & cut into strips
Freshly ground black pepper
4 tb Sweet butter
MMMMM-----------------------ACHOVY BUTTER----------------------------
8 tb Sweet butter, softened
2 ts Anchovy paste
1 tb Lemon juice
MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
6    Rolled anchovy filets
Quartered lemons
Finely minced parsley
Do not peel the tomatoes; cut them into thick slices and sprinkle
them with salt.  Let them drain on a large plate for 30 minutes. Dip
the filets in milk. Dry them lightly with paper towels. Season the
flour with salt and white pepper; dip the filets in the seasoned
flour; transfer them to the beaten eggs and cover them well, then
coat them thoroughly with bread crumbs.  Place the filets on a large
platter and refrigerate for 1 hour. Twenty minutes before you plan to
serve, heat 3 T of olive oil in a large skillet; add the roasted
pepper strips. Cook for 2 or 3 minutes over high heat.  Season them
with salt and black pepper. Transfer them to a serving platter and
keep them warm. Set the pan aside. In another skillet heat the 4 T of
butter with 2 T of oil. Add the filets, two at a time, and saute them
over medium heat for 3 minutes. Turn them over carefully without
breaking through the coating and saute for 3 to 4 minutes more.
Regulate the heat so as not to burn the fat. While the sole is
sauteeing, add a little more olive oil to the pan in which you
sauteed the peppers. Add the tomato slices and cook them quickly
until they are heated through (about 2 minutes).  Remove the pan from
the heat. As soon as the filets are done, place them on the bed of
peppers. Top the filets with the tomato slices, decorated with the
anchovy filets. Surround the platter with quartered lemons and
sprinkle with parsley. In a small saucepan melt the softened butter
over very low heat; add the anchovy paste and lemon juice. Pour the
anchovy butter over the sole and tomatoes and serve immediately.

