Title: FILIPINO CUISINE TIPS~ 1 OF 2
Categories: Info/tips, Sauces
Yield: 1 Servings
E-mail dialogue between
Manny Rothstein
Dennis Santiago and
MR> Got your recipes and most of them look great (though I think I
may MR> on the Pork Livers in Pigs Blood, I'm trying to cut down, but
I am MR> that it is there), a great blend of exotic and easy to
prepare. Th MR> for sharing them with me.

Most people pass on the pigs blood.  Try it sometime though. If your
palate is onto the more exotic forms of cuisine, I think you'll be
pleasantly surprised.

MR> I have already formatted your recipes into Meal-Master format,
but MR> before I post them onto the Cooking Echo, I would like to
impose o MR> a little bit more for some clarification about
ingredients and som MR> background on Filipino cuisine. I also intend
to post the entire MR> collection as a file on your board and the
Salata board. After I d MR> that, it should take on a life of its own
and propagate itself MR> throughout cyber space.

Great.  I'll try to clarify as much as I can.

MR> What is bagoong, and how is it prepared?

Bagoong is a salty mixture made from shrimp.  It's packaged in 1/2
pin jars and sold in the refrigerated foods section in oriental
stores. It also an easily available import from the Philippines item
these days. Unfortunately, I do not know of any substitutes.

MR> What is patis (fish sauce?  Is it like Vietnamese fish sauce?

Patis and Vietnamese fish sauce are one and the same. It's a brine ma
with fish ingredients.  If unavailable, salt can be used as a
substitu for the brine component.

MR> Is rice or bagoong the traditional side dishes for all of the
reci MR> or are there other side dishes that you recommend.

Some tidbits about the Filipino table:

1.  Rice is always served with the meal.  One of the healthy aspects o
Filipino diet is that rice makes up the bulk of the meal while the
mea dish is used as a flavor enhancement. You can see how this
combinatio naturally fulfills the heart and cholesterol meal plans.

2. One of my favorite side dishes to go along with a Filipino meal is
actually the simplest of fare.  The ingredients are:

2-3 Medium, sliced or diced
1/2 Medium, chopped
a little for flavor and color
3-4 Tablespoons
2-3 Tablespoons
Tomatoes
Onion
Cilantro
Patis
Vinegar

Mix the whole mess in a bowl and serve alongside rice and the main dis

3.  It's not unusual for a typical Filipino meal to have several main
dishes served together at one sitting. That's much the same as a Chin
table where a variety of courses help to spread the palate around.

MR> In Pasiw Na Isda you recommend in dir. #1 "...add all other MR>
ingredients", should it be "...add all other ingredients except bi MR>
melon and eggplant".

You are correct.

(continued in part 2)

