Title: FISH BROWN SAUCE
Categories: Cajun, Sauces, Fish
Yield: 6 Servings
MMMMM-----------------------SEASONING MIX----------------------------
1    Whole bay leaf
1/2 ts Salt
1/2 ts Garlic powder
1/4 ts White pepper
1/4 ts Dried oregano leaves
1/4 ts Dried thyme leaves
1/8 ts Ground cayenne pepper
MMMMM----------------------MAIN INGREDIENTS---------------------------
2 tb Vegetable oil
3 tb All-purpose flour
1/4 c  Finely chopped onions
4 ts Canned tomatoe sauce
1 ts Worcestershire sauce
2 c  Hot basic seafood stock
2 tb Burgundy wine
2 tb Unsalted butter, softened
Serve this delicious sauce over broiled, fried or baked fish fillets
or broiled, fried or baked oysters.
Combine the seasoning mix ingredients in a small bowl and set
aside. Heat the oil in a heavy 1-quart saucepan over high heat just
until the oil starts to smoke, about 1 to 2 minutes. With a metal
whisk, mix in 2 tablespoons of the flour, whisking constantly and
scraping pan bottom well, until the roux is dark red-brown to black,
about 2 minutes, being careful not to let it scorch or splash on your
skin. (Remove from heat momentarily if it is browing too fast for you
to control, continuing to stir constantly.)  Immediately whisk in the
onions; reduce heat to low and continue stirring and cooking about 1
minute. Add the tomato sauce and stir and cook 1 minute.  Then stir
in the seasoning mix and the Worcestershire (the mixture should now
be thick and dark red-brown); cook 2 to 3 minutes, stirring
constantly.  Add the stock; turn heat to high and bring to a boil,
stirring often.
Reduce heat to maintain a simmer and cook about 6 to 8 minutes,
stirring often.  Stir in 1 tablespoon of the burgundy and remove from
heat. In a small bowl mix the butter and remaining 1 tablespoon flour
until creamy. Return sauce to low heat; gradually add the butter
mixture to the sauce, whisking until well blended each time. Return
sauce to a simmer and simmer 10 minutes, stirring often.  Add the
remaining 1 tablespoon burgundy. Remove from heat and discard bay
leaf. Serve immediately. From Paul Prudhomme's "Louisiana Kitchen"

