Title: FISH CARIBBEAN WITH HERBED WINE SAUCE
Categories: Seafood
Yield: 1 Servings
1 c  Rice or couscous -- cooked
4    Sheets parchment paper,foil
Or -- banana leaves
2 sm Zucchini -- matchstick
Strips-2c
1    Chile poblano or chile
Pasillo -- in thin strips
Roasted, peeled -- and
Seeded
1 lb Boneless firm white fish --
In 4 pieces
4 md Tomatoes -- peeled/diced-1
Cup
10    Black olives -- finely
Chopd
1 ts Each chopped fresh basil,
Thyme -- tarragon
Parsley, and green onion
Tops
1    Egg -- If using Parchment
Paper, to seal edges
Place on a baking sheet and cook for 12 minutes or until fish is done!
(Depends on the fish) Wing it. 3/4 cup herbed wine sauce (recipe
follows) 1. Preheat an oven to 350 degrees 2. Cut parchment paper
into 4 pieces about 10 to 12" square, same with foil, and I'm not
sure about the banana leaves. Any of these would surely work. 3.
Place 1/2 cup of the cooked rice in the middle of any of the above.
Top each serving with 1/2 cup of zucchini strips, a piece of the
fish, 1/4 cup diced tomato and 3 thin strips of the chile. 4.
Sprinkle a fourth of the chopped olives on each serving, and top with
1/4 each of the fresh herbs. 5. Seal any of the above wrappings the
best you can. String, holding the parchment together with egg, etc.
Now........ HERBED WINE SAUCE 1 1/2 cups coarsely chopped onions 3
cloves garlic very finely chopped 1 tablespoon fresh thyme 1/4 cup
fresh chopped tarragon 1 cup dry white wine 3 tablespoon light virgin
olive oil 2 thin strip of the chile 1. Combine all the ingredients
except the oil and the chile in a blender and puree. Pour into a
small saucepan and bring to boil over medium heat. Reduce heat to low
and simmer until the sauce is reduced by half. 2. Strain the reduced
sauce, pressing all the liquid out. Slowly whisk in the olive oil
until smooth. 3. Chop the strip of chile very tiny and add to the
sauce. (Sauce could be made ahead and reheated just before serving)
To serve, place each packet on a plate, open the packet and put 3
tablspoons of the sauce over the top.

: RUBYdakoda
Recipe By

Date:
From:

