Title: FISH CLAMS & CORN CHOWDER
Categories: None
Yield: 1 Servings
4    Idaho potatoes, peeled and
-cut into 1/2 inch cubes
6 oz Pork fat cut into 1/2 inch
-cubes.
2 tb Unsalted butter
4    Garlic cloves, finely
-chopped
1 lg Onion, coarsely chopped
-(1/4 inch pieces)
3    Celery stalks, coarsely
-chopped
2 c  Clam juice, fresh, canned
-or bottled
1 tb Fresh ground black pepper
1 tb Marjoram
1 tb Thyme
1 tb Sage
1/2 tb Rosemary, chopped fine.
1 c  Dry white wine
1 c  Fresh sweet corn or
16 oz Unsalted canned corn,
-strained
1 lb Fresh fish, cut into 1
-inch square pieces
24    Fresh shelled chowder clams
-or
1 c  Strained canned clams
-chopped up
2 c  Light cream
Use an enamel pot that holds about one gallon, add 2-3 ears sweet
corn to boiling water. Cook until almost tender then cut corn off the
cob. Add the potatoes to the same water and boil them until half
done, about 5 minutes, strain and set aside.  On a medium heat, brown
the pork fat until it's nearly crisp, remove the fattiest bits. Add
the onion and when it's caramelized, add the garlic, celery and
potatoes. Let each brown a little before the next is put in.  Add the
butter if needed. On a low heat add 1 cup of clam juice, white wine,
corn and all the spices. Simmer a few minutes to reduce slightly. Add
the remaining clam juice, clams and fish, simmer another 5 minutes
max. Salt lightly if necessary with course salt. Add light cream,
when its starts to simmer its chow time! Serves 4

If you want to make chowder without the clams then make a fish stock
to substitute for the clam juice. Into one quart cold water add a 1/2
cup of white wine, a small celery stalk, a few sprigs' parsley, a bay
leaf, a pinch of thyme, 1/2 a small onion, a pinch of coarse salt, a
few peppercorns and the head, tail and bones of any fish. Reduce it
until you have about 2 cups (about 20 minutes) of stock. Strain
liquid into a few bowls temporarily.

Posted By jbphoto@pipeline.com (James Brill) On rec.food.recipes or
rec.food.cooking Submitted By MARK ALEXANDER <MARK@ALEXR.DEMON.CO.UK>
On 11 MAR 1995 2044 GMT

