Title: FLAKY MUSHROOM SWIRLS
Categories: Appetizers, Vegetables
Yield: 94 Servings
2 tb Olive or vegetable oil
1 1/4 c  Frozen chopped onions
2 tb Olive or vegetable oil
1 lb White mushrooms; trimmed,
- wiped, & finely chopped
- (See NOTE)
2/3 c  Grated Parmesan cheese
2 ts Dried chervil leaves
- crumbled
Salt
Freshly ground black pepper
1 lb All-butter puff pastry
- defrosted according to
- package directions
IN A LARGE HEAVY SKILLET, heat 2 tablespoons of oil over medium-high
heat until hot but not smoking. Add the onions and saute them until
just limp, about 3 to 4 minutes. Add the remaining oil, then stir in
the mushrooms. Adjust the heat to high and cook the mushrooms until
the moisture has almost completely evaporated, 7 minutes, stirring
often. Remove the pan from the heat, stir in the cheese, chervil and
pepper, and set the filling aside while rolling out the pastry.
Lightly flour a clean workspace. Unfold the pastry and dust lightly
with flour. Using a floured rolling pin, roll the pastry into a
rectangle about 12-by-18 inches. Cut the rectangle into 2 long
rectangles measuring 6-by-18 inches each. Brush off the excess flour,
and spread half of the mushroom mixture over each rectangle, leaving
a 1-inch border at the uppermost edges. Starting with the bottom long
edge, roll up each rectangle jelly roll fashion gently pressing the
top edge to seal the pastry. Carefully wrap the rolls tightly in
plastic wrap or foil. Flatten each roll slightly by pushing gently on
the sides so the spirals will be oval-shaped, and refrigerate until
the pastry is firm, at least 2 hours. This may be done up to 4 days
ahead of time. Preheat oven to 375F, and line a cookie sheet (or 2 if
you have them) with baking parchment. Remove the rolls from the
refrigerator as you are ready to cut them. With a sharp knife, cut
the rolls crosswise into 3/8-inch slices. Place each oval onto the
parchment, leaving 1 1/2 inches of space between them. Transfer the
pan(s) to the middle of the oven, and bake until the tops are lightly
browned. With a spatula, turn the spirals over and continue cooking
until the second side is lightly browned and the centers are cooked
through. If using 2 pans, rotate the pans during baking for even
baking. Remove the pans, slide the swirls onto a rack to cool, and
continue in the same fashion until all the swirls are baked. Serve
warm. NOTE: If using your food processor to chop mushrooms, you will
be far more successful if you pulse them several times to reach the
desired consistency rather than let the machine run. Over-processed
mushrooms are often watery and will not brown.

