Title: FLO'S WHITE CHOCOLATE RASPBERRY BROWNIE PETIT
Categories: Brownies, Chocolate
Yield: 16 Servings
Raspberry Brownies-----
3/4 c  All-Purpose Flour
1/4 ts Baking Soda
1/8 ts Salt
3 oz Unsalted Butter -- cut into
Pieces
3 oz Unsweetened Chocolate --
Finely chopped
1/2 c  Granulated Sugar
1/2 c  Light Brown Sugar -- packed
1 tb Light Corn Syrup
2 lg Eggs -- at room temperature
2 ts Vanilla Extract
1/2 c  Fresh Raspberries -- at room
Temperature
White Chocolate Raspberry
Topping---
2 oz Unsalted Butter -- cut into
Pieces
6 oz White Chocolate -- chopped
Fine
1/2 c  Fresh Red Raspberries -- at
Room temperature
1. Brownie:  Position a rack in the lower third of the oven and
preheat to 325 F.  Line an 8-inch square baking pan with a double
thickness of aluminum foil so that the foil extends 2 inches beyond
two of the opposite ends of the pan.  Fold the overhang down to form
"handles. " Butter the bottom of the foil-lined pan. Sift flour,
baking soda, and salt through a wire strainer onto a sheet of wax
paper.

2. In a medium saucepan over low heat, melt butter. Off heat, add
chocolate and let stand 1 minute; whisk until smooth. Pour into a
large bowl, and let stand 5 minutes, until tepid. Whisk in sugars and
corn syrup. Whisk in eggs, then vanilla.  Using a wooden spoon, stir
in flour mixture, just until blended.  Using a rubber spatula,
carefully fold in raspberries.

3. Spread batter evenly into prepared pan and bake 25 to 30 minutes,
until a toothpick inserted 1 inch from the edge of the brownie comes
out with a moist crumb. Cool on a wire cake rack for 10 minutes.
Invert onto the wire cake rack, carefully peel off aluminum foil, and
cool completely.

4. White Chocolate Raspberry Topping:  In the top part of a double
boiler, over hot, not simmering, water, melt butter. (Water should be
no warmer than 125 F. ) Add white chocolate and melt, stirring often
until smooth. Transfer to a small bowl, and let stand 10 minutes,
until tepid and slightly thickened.  Using a metal cake spatula,
spread half of the topping onto the top of the brownie. Freeze
brownie for 5 minutes, just until topping is partially set. Using a
sharp knife, mark topping of brownie into 16 squares.  Using a rubber
spatula, carefully fold remaining 1/2 cup raspberries into remaining
topping.  Divide white chocolate-coated raspberries evenly among
brownies, arranging them attractively on top of each square. Loosely
cover brownies with plastic wrap, and refrigerate for 30 minutes to
set topping completely. Using a sharp knife, cut through markings
into 16 squares. Transfer brownies to a serving plate and cover
tightly with plastic wrap.  Brownies can be made up to 1 day ahead,
refrigerated, and covered with plastic wrap. Bring to room
temperature before serving

: Felicia Pickering <MNHAN063@SIVM.  SI. EDU>
Recipe By

