Title: FLOURLESS CHOCOLATE ROULADE WITH WHIPPED APRI
Categories: Cakes, Fruits/nuts, Desserts
Yield: 12 Servings
MMMMM----------------------------CAKE---------------------------------
6 lg Egg yolks
2/3 c  Superfine or strained sugar
1/4 c  Superfine or strained sugar
1 ts Vanilla extract
1 ts Grated navel orange rind
2 tb Fresh orange juice
1/2 c  Strained Dutch-process cocoa
6 lg Egg whites
1 tb Water
1/4 ts Cream of tartar
MMMMM------------------WHIPPED APRICOT SOUFFLE-----------------------
3 oz Dried apricots
1 c  Water; plus
1 tb Water
3/4 c  Confectioner's sugar
1/2 ts Unflavored gelatin
1 c  Heavy cream; well-chilled
1 tb Grand Marnier
Position rack in lower third of oen and preheat to 350 degrees.
Butter a 10 1/2 by 15 1/2 by 1 inch jellyroll pan and line the bottom
with baking parchment. Lightly butter the parchment. Place the yolks
in the small bowl of an electric mixer fitted with beaters or the
whip attachment. Beat on medium speed until they are thickened and
light yellow in color, about 2 minutes.  Add 2/3 c sugar, 1 Tbsp at a
time, taking about 2 to 3 minutes to blend it in well. Reduce mixer
speed to medium-low. Blend in the vanilla, orange rind, and orange
juice, and mix for 15 seconds. Reduce speed to low, add the cocoa,
and blend until just incorporated. Remove from the mixer and transfer
to a larger mixing bowl. Set aside. Wash and dry beaters. In the
large bowl of the mixer, whip the egg whites and water at medium
speed until frothy. Add the cream of tartar, increase the speed to
medium-high, and continue beating until the whites form soft peaks.
Add 1/4 c sugar, 1 Tbsp at a time, taking about 30 seconds. Whip for
15 seconds longer. Do not overbeat.  Remove the bowl from the mixer.
With a 2 3/4 inch wide rubber spatula, fold one quarter of the beaten
egg whites into the yolk mixture, taking about 20 turns to lighten.
Then fold in the remaining whites, taking an additional 30 to 40
turns. Pour batter into the prepared pan and gently smooth the top
with the back of a spoon, spreading it evenly into the corners.  Tap
the pan gently on the counter to even out the batter. Bake in the
preheated oben for 20 to 25 minutes, until the top feels set and is
springy to the touch. While the cake is baking, prepare a 20-inch
piece of baking parchment. Place on a flat work space and sprinkle
lightly with 1/2 tsp granulated sugar. Remove cake from the oven and
immediately invert onto the parchment. Protecting your hands with
potholders, remove the pan and gently peel off the paper pan liner.
Tightly roll together the cake and the sugared parchment paper away
from you, starting on a long side. Place the cake seam side down on a
cake rack to cool while you prepare the filling. To make the whipped
apricot souffle: Put the apricots and 1 cup of water in a small heavy
saucepan, cover, and bring to a boil. Simmer 20-25 minutes or until
the apricots are very soft and all but 1 or 2 Tbsp of the water has
been absorbed. Remove from the heat and add 1/2 c confectioners
sugar. Whip with a fork until the apricots are very smooth. You
should have approximately 1/2 c of puree. Put 1 Tbsp cold water in a
small heat-proof glass dish and sprinkle the gelatin over the top.
Let stand for 5 minutes without stirring. Place the dish in a skillet
filled with 1/2 inch of boiling water.  Stir the mixture until the
gelatin is dissolved and the mixture is clear.  Stir it into the
apricot puree. Set aside to cool to tepid. Beat the cream in a small
chilled bowl of an electric mixer. As it begins to thicken, add 1/4 c
confectioner's sugar gradually. Beat until soft peaks form. Remove
from the mixer and fold in the tepid puree and the Grand Marnier by
hand. To assemble: Carefully unroll the cake, but not completely
flat; the edge closest to you should remain curled. Spoon the filling
under the curled edge first, then spread it over the rest of the cake
evenly with a metal spatula, leaving a 1-inch border on the far side.
To roll the cake, tuck the curled edge under and continue rolling.
Place seam side down on a wooden breadboard or oblong platter. Cover
loosely with foil and refrigerate until hald-hour before serving.
Dust the top with confectioner's sugar just before serving. Store
leftover roulade in the refrigerator loosely covered with foil for up
to three days.

