Title: FOCCACIA WITH FRUIT & NUTS
Categories: Mc, Pizzas
Yield: 1 Servings
5 tb Olive oil
1/2 c  Currants or chopped raisins
3 c  Bread flour
1 ts Salt
1 ts Sugar
1 pk 50% faster or RapidRise
-yeast
3/4 c  Hot water
1/2 c  Chopped pecans,, toasted
2 tb Chopped fresh rosemary
1/2 c  Grated imported Parmesan
-cheese
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F. Lightly grease a baking sheet.
Pour 3 tablespoons of the olive oil into a small glass bowl and heat
at full power in the microwave until very hot, 30 to 45 seconds.
Stir in the currants and heat an additional 20 seconds then set them
aside to plump. In a mixer or processor bowl fitted with the steel
blade, combine 2 1/2 cups flour, the salt, sugar, and yeast. Mix. Add
the hot water. Knead until soft, adding additional flour as needed to
eliminate stickiness. Add the oil and the raisins (if using a food
processor reserve half), the pecans, and rosemary and knead the dough
sufficiently to mix in the fruit, nuts, and herb. (Knead in the rest
of the raisins by hand if the rest was done with a food processor.)
Form the dough into a ball. With your thumbs, punch a hole to form a
doughnut shape and place in an oiled plastic bag or the processor
bowl. If in a bowl, cover loosely with a damp tea towel or plastic
wrap. Place in the microwave. Place an 8-ounce glass of water in the
back of the microwave. Lower the microwave power to 10% or the next
to the lowest power setting. Heat for 3 minutes. Rest for 3 minutes.
Repeat heating for 3 minutes and resting for 3 minutes. Heat for the
third time 3 minutes but rest 6 minutes until the dough has doubled
in bulk. Remove the dough from the processor bowl, punch down, and
knead by hand a few seconds. Roll the dough into a 9 x 13-inch
rectangle and place on the prepared baking sheet. Brush with the
remaining 2 tablespoons olive oil and sprinkle with the Parmesan.
Allow the dough to rise again, about 20 minutes or until nearly
doubled. Bake until the foccacia is puffy and golden brown, about 25
minutes. Cool on a wire rack and cut into squares to serve. Serves 6
to Posted to MC-Recipe Digest V1 #

Recipe by: WELL-STOCKED PANTRY SHOW#ND7046

From: kmeade@IDS2.IDSONLINE.COM (The Meades)

Date: Thu, 5 Dec 1996 20:27:54 -0500

