Title: FONDUE INDIENNE
Categories: Fondue, Entrees, Parties
Yield: 4 Servings
1    Garlic clove, crushed
1 md Onion, grated
1 1/4 c  Dry white wine
2 ts Curry powder (more or
-less, to taste)
2 tb Flour
2 1/2 c  Cheddar cheese
-(matured), grated
1/4 c  Fruit relish, spicy
1/2 ts Salt
Pepper, freshly ground,
-to taste
Rub the bottom and sides of the fondue pot with the clove of garlic
before crushing it and using it in the next step.

Bring the garlic, onion, wine and curry powder to simmering point in
the fondue pot.  If you want to speed things along a little then you
can do this on the stove and then transfer the mixture to the fondue
pot.

Combine the grated cheese and flour by tossing in a plastic bag.
Gradually stir in the cheese, a handful at a time. Allow it to melt
completely between each addition. When all the cheese has been added
the mixture should be bubbling and smooth.

Stir in the relish.  Season with salt and freshly ground pepper. Keep
the mixture warm over a burner, seat your guests down, fill their
wine glasses and enjoy your meal.

I often add more cheese than the recipe calls for. You can use any of
the following as dippers with the fondue:

:  o  Mushroom caps, sauteed quickly in butter, tossed in chopped
parsley :  o  Whole, peeled and deveined prawns
:  o  Fresh pineapple chunks
:  o  Canned artichoke hearts, well drained and halved
:  o  Unpeeled apple wedges, thick banana slices or peeled pear
quarters :  o  Thick cucumber slices or chunks
:  o  Small whole radishes
:  o  Cauliflower
:  o  A small French loaf per person
:  o  Anything else that tickles your fancy

NOTES:

*  Cheese fondue with curry flavor -- This is a very tasty meal and a
lot of fun as well. You will need to have a crockery fondue pot and a
burner, as all the cooking happens on your dinner table with your
guests doing all their own cooking! My wife and I enjoy a fondue with
dinner guests or simply by ourselves, and this is one of our
favourites. This recipe is adopted from one published by the
Australian Dairy Corporation many years ago.

*  Toss fruit in lemon juice to prevent browning.

: Difficulty:  easy.
: Time:  40 minutes preparation, cooking takes as long as it takes
you to eat it.
: Precision:  approximate measurement OK

: Michael Oudshoorn
: Computer Science Dept., University of Adelaide, South Australia
: mjo@uacomsci.ua.oz

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

