Title: FONDANT~ COOKED~ & CANDY RECIPES
Categories: Candies
Yield: 2 Servings
3 c  Sugar
1 1/3 c  Water
1/4 ts Salt
1/3 c  Light corn syrup
1 ts Vanilla extract
DIRECTIONS: Mix first 4 ingredients in large saucepan. Bring to boil,
stirring. Cover, boil 3 minutes. Remove cover, and cook until a small
amount of mixture forms a soft ball when dropped in cold water
(238-F). Wash down sides of pan several times with a pastry brush
dipped in cold water, using up and down motion. Pour out on ungreased
platter. Cool to lukewarm (110-F). Add vanilla, and beat until
mixture turns cloudy. Gather into a ball, and knead with lightly
buttered hands until smooth and creamy. Put in bowl, cover with damp
cloth, and store in cool place until needed.

FONDANT DIPPED ALMONDS: Tint fondant with red and green food
coloring. If desired, flavor green with wintergreen and red with
peppermint. Melt each color in top part of double boiler over hot
water. Dip rounded end of toasted almonds in candy; harden on waxed
paper.

FONDANT STUFFED DATES: Color fondant with red and green food
coloring, as desired. Shape in small rolls, and fill pitted dates.

BONBONS: Using 2/3 of fondant recipe for any one flavor of bonbon,
work in desired flavoring and coloring a little at a time. Shape in
3/4" balls for centers. Bits of nuts, candied or dried fruits, or
coconut can be added to these centers. Let stand on waxed paper,
covered, overnight.

Next day, melt remaining 1/3 of the fondant set aside for this batch
in top part of metal double boiler over boiling water, adding
flavoring and coloring to match fondant centers. Remove from heat.
Set pan in cold water for a moment, and then put over hot (not
boiling) water to keep fondant warm and soft. With dipping fork, or
other fork, dip bonbon centers, one at a time, in melted fondant to
cover. (Stir after each bonbon is dipped to keep crust from forming
on top. If this fondant becomes too thick, reheat or add a few drops
of hot water.) Tip bonbon over onto waxed paper covered tray.
Decorative circles can be made by holding dipping fork on top of
bonbon for a moment. Decorate at once with bits of nuts, candied
fruits, silver shot or colored sugar, as desired. Leftover dipping
fondant can be dropped on waxed paper to make patties. Store,
covered, in cool, dry place.

Source: Mom's old magazine clippings- 1940's to 1970's

From: Sallie Austin

