Title: FONTINA~ MUSHROOM & PANCETTA LASAGNA
Categories: Pasta
Yield: 8 Servings
Filling:
30 oz Ricotta; 2 15-oz. container
1 pk Spinach; chopped, frozen, c
Package directions, drained,
1/2 c  Parmesan; freshly grated (a
2    Eggs
Mushrooms:
1 tb Olive oil
2 oz Pancetta; *, or bacon, chop
2 ts Rosemary; fresh, minced or
Crumbled
12 oz Mushrooms; button, sliced
Assembly:
12    Lasanga noodles; about
Tomato, porcini & pancetta s
1 lb Fontina cheese; grated
3/4 c  Parmesan; freshly grated (a
1    Tomato; seeded, chopped
2 ts Rosemary; fresh, minced or
Crumbled
* Pancetta is Italian unsmoked bacon cured in salt and is available
at most Italian markets and some specialty food stores. FOR FILLING:
Combine first 3 ingredients (30 oz. ricotta, 10 oz. spinach,
prepared as instructed, and 1/2 cup Parmesan) in large bowl. Season
with salt and pepper. Add eggs and mix well. (Can be prepared 1 day
ahead. Cover and chill.) always find a deeper dish easier toh (I
always find a deeper dish easier (I always find a deeper dish easier
to with salt and pepper, and cook l juices evaporate, stirring,
frequently, about
12    minutes. ASSEMBLY:
Cook noodles in large pot of boiling salted water until just
tender but still firm to bite, stirring occasionally. Drain. Rinse
under cold water to cool; drain.
Oil 13x9x2-inch baking dish (I always find a deeper dish easier
to deal with when making lasagna; 3-inches deep is MUCH better).
Spread 1 cup Tomato, Porcini and Pancetta Sauce over bottom of dish.
Arrange 3 to 4 noodles over, trimming to fit as necessary. Spread
half of ricotta filling over. Spoon 1 cup sauce over. Sprinkle with 1
cup Fontina and 1/4 cup Parmesan cheese.  Top with 3 to 4 noodles,
trimming to fit. Spread remaining ricotta filling over noodles. Spoon
1 cup sauce over. Sprinkle with 1 cup Fontina and 1/4 cup Parmesan.
Reserve 1/2 cup sauteed mushrooms for garnish.  Spread remaining
mushrooms over cheese. Arrange remaining noodles over. Spread
remaining sauce over noodles. Sprinkle remaining Fontina and 1/4 cup
Parmesan over.  Cover with foil. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead.
Refrigerate lasagna and reserved 1/2 cup mushrooms separately. Let
lasagna stand 2 hours at room temperature before continuing.)
Preheat oven to 350F.  Bake covered lasagna 30 minutes. Uncover
and continue baking until bubbling and cheese melts, about 20 minutes.
Arrange reserved 1 cup mushrooms, tomato and 2 teaspoons rosemary
over. Let stand 10 minutes.  Cut into squares.

