Title: FRANK'S CLASSIC CHICKEN CACCIATORE
Categories: Main dish, Poultry
Yield: 4 Servings
1 ea Chicken, skinned & cut into
Pieces
4 tb Extra virgin olive oil
6 ea Garlic cloves, peeled
2 c  Chicken stock
1 lg Onion, diced
1/2 md Bell pepper, diced
1/2 lb Mushroom buttons, quartered
10 ea Anchovy fillets, chopped
1 1/2 c  Dry red wine or dry sherry
4 tb Red wine vinegar
2 ts Rosemary
6 ea Sprigs fresh basil -or-
1 ts Dry basil
1/2 ts Italian seasoning
1 cn Tomato paste
Salt & pepper to taste
First, in a heavy Dutch oven (preferably cast-iron) heat the olive
oil and saute the chicken and garlic until lightly browned...(but
remember to stir everything constantly so that the garlic doesn't
burn!). Then remove the chicken from the pot and set it aside
momentarily.
Next, take half of the chicken stock, add it to the Dutch oven
over high heat, and de-glaze the pot. When all the residue is scraped
off the bottom and the stock is reduced by one-half its volume, stir
in the onions, bell pepper, and mushrooms and cook them until wilted
(about 5 minutes).
Now place the chicken back in the pot, add the chopped anchovies,
wine, wine vinegar, rosemary, basil, and Italian seasonings, and stir
everything together gently.
At this point, dissolve the tomato paste in the chicken stock you
have left and pour it evenly over the ingredients in the pot. Then
cover the Dutch oven tightly, reduce the heat to low, and simmer
gently for about 15 minutes.
Finally, taste the sauce, add the amount of salt and pepper you
desire, cover the pot again and continue simmering on low for another
45 minutes to 1 hour (or until the chicken is tender).

HINTS: 1 - Do not leave out the anchovies! Even if you don't like
anchovies put 'em in! I promise you won't taste them, but you lose
the unique flavor the dish if you eliminate them.
2 - I suggest you serve the cacciatore piping hot over fettucine
noodles topped with grated Romano cheese, garlic bread, and a chilled
glass of wine.
3 - Once the chicken begins to cook, be sure to stir the pot gently
or you'll break the meat off the bone.
4 - You can make a variety of other cacciatores using this recipe by
simply substituting other meats for the chicken - for example, turkey,
veal, beef, pork, venison, squirrel, and rabbit all work well.
Remember cacciatore means "hunter's stew."

