Title: OLD-FASHIONED POT ROAST WITH HERB DUMPLINGS
Categories: Meats
Yield: 4 Servings
Stephen Ceideburg
2 lb Boneless chuck. roast
2 tb Flour
Kosher salt, black pepper
2 tb Cooking oil
1 md Carrot, diced
1 md Onion, diced
1 qt Beef stock
1 c  Red wine
4    Sprigs fresh thyme
1    Bay leaf
3    Carrots, peeled, cut into
-quarters
3    Parsnips, peeled, cut into
-quarters
1 md Rutabaga or
2 md Turnips, peeled, cut into
-1-inch wedges
16    Boiling onions, peeled
4 md Red potatoes (skins on), cut
-into 1-inch cubes
3 tb Olive oil
Herb Dumplings (see recipe)
Bradley Ogden runs the Lark Creek Inn in Larkspur California, has
written "Bradley Ogden's Breakfast, Lunch and Dinner, and was deemed
"Best California Chef" of '93 by the James Beard Foundation.

From "Bradley Ogden's Breakfast, Lunch & Dinner" cookbook.

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Trim excess fat from the chuck roast.
Dredge the roast with flour and season with salt and pepper. Place a
heavy-bottomed casserole over medium heat and add the oil. When hot,
add the meat and brown well on all sides. Remove the meat; add the
carrots and onions and cook until browned. Return the meat to the
pot; add the stock, wine, thyme and bay leaf. When the liquid comes
to a simmer, cover the pot and place on the lower shelf of the
preheated oven. Bake for about 2 hours, turning the meat once or
twice during cooking. Toss the prepared vegetables with the olive oil
or fat and season with salt and pepper. About 40 minutes before
serving, place the vegetables in a roasting pan, put in the oven and
roast until they are tender and lightly browned.

When the meat is tender, remove to a platter and keep warm.

Strain the juices from the pot and skim off the fat. Return the
juices to the pot and cook over high heat until reduced to about half.

Reduce heat to a simmer; drop dumpling dough by the teaspoonful into
the simmering juices. Cover and simmer about 10 minutes, or until a
toothpick inserted into a dumpling comes out clean.

Surround the roast with the vegetables and the dumplings. Pour the
remaining juices from the pot into a sauce boat, Spoon a little over
the meat before serving.

PER SERVING (not counting dumplings): 675 calories, 48 g protein, 64 g
carbohydrate, 24 g fat (5 g saturated), 108 mg cholesterol, 779 mg
sodium, 10 g fiber.

Tom Sietsema writing in the San Francisco Chronicle, 10/6/93.

Posted by Stephen Ceideburg

