Title: OLIVE GARDEN LASAGNA
Categories: Pasta, Sauces and, Copycat
Yield: 8 Servings
-WALDINE VAN GEFFEN
-VGHC42A-----
ALFREDO SAUCE
1/2 lb Sweet or salted butter
12 oz Heavy cream
Fresh ground white pepper
1 1/2 c  Fresh Parmesan -- grated
18 sl Mozzarella cheese -- 1/2oz
Ea
RICOTTA CHEESE MIX
1 pt Ricotta cheese
2 oz Romano -- grated
3 oz Mozzarella -- shredded
2 tb Green onions -- sliced
2 ts Fresh parsley -- chopped
1/2 ts Salt
1/8 ts Black pepper
1/4 ts Dried basil
1/4 ts Dried oregano
1 1/4 c  Alfredo sauce -- cooled
VEGETABLE MIX
4 c  Broccoli florets
2 c  Carrots; sliced 1/4" --
-chopped
4 c  Mushrooms  -- sliced 1/4"
2 c  Red bell peppers  -- diced
1 c  Green bell pepper  -- diced
1 c  Yellow onion  -- diced
2 c  Zucchini  -- sliced
Lasagna strips
Lay out enough dry lasagna strips in a 9x13 pan to ensure you have
enough to make 3 full layers, with very little overlap on each layer.
Remove the dry

strips and cook according to package instructions until barely "al
dente" and drain. ALFREDO SAUCE-Heat water to a boil in the bottom of
a double boiler. Add butter, cream and pepper to the top pot and heat
until butter is completely melted, then stir in Parmesan until melted
and blended. Remove top pot and set aside to cool. Divide the sauce
into 2 equal portions. Refrigerate 1 portion for use later. RICOTTA
CHEESE MIX- Combine all ingredients in a bowl and blend thoroughly
with a rubber spatula. Set asside at room temp. VEGETABLES-Combine
all veggies and mix well. ASSEMBLY-Coat the bottom and sides of a
9x13 baking dish with vegetable spray. Lay out cooked lasagna strips
(about 4) to cover entire bottom. Spread 1-1/4 c of the Ricotta mix
evenly over the strips. Top with 8 c of veggie mix and spread out
evenly. Lay out 9 of the mozzarella slices to cover the veggie layer.
Repeat this layering. Top the second layer of mozzarella slices with
lasagna strips and spread them evenly with 1-1/4 c ricotta cheese mix
to finish. COOKING-Spray a sheet of foil with vegetable spray and
cover the baking dish tightly with the foil, sprayed side down. Bake
in a preheated 375~ oven for about an hour or until the internal temp
is 165~. Remove from the oven and allow to sit for a few minutes,
covered, before cutting and serving. Immediately prior to serving,
heat the reserved portion of Alfredo Sauce and ladle the hot sauce
over each slice of lasagna as it is served. Source: The Olive Garden.

:
Recipe By

