Title: OLIVE BREAD PART 1
Categories: Breads
Yield: 2 Loaves
MMMMM-----------------COOKING WITH MASTER CHEFS----------------------
7 c  Bread flour; a little more
-if needed
2 ts Raw wheat germ
2 ts Fragrant dried thyme,
-coarsely ground
1 1/3 c  Grape starter
2 c  Tap water, 70 degrees F
1 tb Salt
1 c  Greek Kalamata olives,
-pitted and roughly
-chopped
1 c  Oil cured olives, pitted
-and roughly chopped
1 tb Active dry yeast
Special equipment suggested: A food processor fitted with a steel
blade (if your machine is too small for the proportions here, make
the dough in two batches and combine them for the final
hand-kneading) A dough scraper A 2X2 foot wooden, plastic, or marble
work board surface Two wicker baskets about 10" across and 4" deep,
lined with a clean dry cloth and lightly floured An instant meat
thermometer A bread peel A pizza stone or ceramic bread tiles (you
will find these in most good cookware departments, gourmet shops and
catalogs)

MIXING THE DOUGH AND FIRST MACHINE KNEADING: Measure the flour, wheat
germ, thyme, and starter into the bowl of the processor. Add the
optional dissolved yeast only if your starter was not fully alive
~-bubbly throughout--after its final feeding. (If you are using the
yeast-batter alternative, you will not need the additional yeast.)
Start the machine and slowly pour in the water, then the salt.
Process until the dough masses and balls up and rotates under the
cover for 10 to 15 revolutions. Uncover the processor bowl and
inspect the dough; it should be fairly smooth, soft and a bit sticky
when squeezed between thumb and finger. (If too wet and sticky,
sprinkle in and process briefly a tablespoon or so of flour; if too
stiff, process in droplets of water.)

SECOND MACHINE KNEADING: Let the dough rest 5 to 10 minutes, allowing
the flour particles to absorb the liquid. Proces again for 15 to 20
revolutions, then uncover the machine.

ADDING THE OLIVES AND PREPARATION FOR HAND KNEADING: Add the olives
to the machine, and process into the dough with short on-off spurts.
You just want to incorporate the olives, not chop them. Turn the
dough onto a lightly floured board and knead by hand for several
turns to be sure the olives are well incorporated, and that the dough
is smooth. Divide in half with the scraper. Tuck all sides of each
piece under itself and roate the dough briefly with your palms to
form a ball shape. Cover with a clean, dry cloth and let the dough
rest on the board for 15 minutes.

FORMING THE DOUGH: One at a time, with the pams of your hands roll
each ball of dough around, pulling the bottom against the board,
creating tension to stretch the covering "skin" smoothly over the
entire surface of the dough. If more tension is needed, spritz the
surface of the dough with a little water. Cupping your hands around
the ball and using pressure against the board, continue rotating
until the ball is uniformly smooth, with no blisters or breaks. Turn
the ball over, pinch the center of the bottom together to seal, and
place pinched side down in a floured basket.

LETTING THE DOUGH RISE--2 hours: Leave the baskets uncovered at room
temperature for 1 1/2 to 2 hours, or until the dough has started to
rise. Enclose each basket in plastic wrap and refrigerate overnight.

Posted 12-01-93 by RICHARD TAYLOR on F-Cooking

MM by MMCONV and Sylvia Steiger, GEnie THE.STEIGERS, CI$ 71511,2253,
Internet sylvia.steiger@lunatic.com, moderator of GT Cookbook and
PlanoNet Lowfat & Luscious echoes

