Title: OPEN-FACE DUMPLINGS
Categories: Chinese, Pork, Appetizers
Yield: 6 Servings
1 lb Ground pork
10    Chinese dried black
-mushrooms, softened in hot
Water for 20 minutes, stems
-removed and caps
Finely chopped
2 c  Minced garlic chives (Or
-substitute 2 cups minced
2 c  Minced garlic chives
(Or substitute 2 cups minced
Leeks and 1 tablespoon
Minced garlic)
2 tb Minced fresh ginger
2 tb Soy sauce
2 ts Rice wine
1 1/2 ts Sesame oil
1/4 ts Freshly ground black pepper
1    Egg white, lightly beaten
1 1/2 tb Cornstarch
TO ASSEMBLE: 30 dumpling or gyoza skins Sesame oil for coating
steamer 1/2 cup minced scallion greens

Lightly chop the ground pork until fluffy.  Place in a mixing bowl
and add the remaining filling ingredients. Stir vigorously in one
direction with your hand or a wooden spoon to blend the ingredients
evenly.

Place a heaping tablespoon of the filling in the middle of a dumpling
skin and gather the edges of the skin around the filling. Holding the
dumpling between your index finger and thumb, squeeze it in the
center to form a "waist".  Push the filling up from the bottom to
create a flat surface. Smooth the top surface with the bottom of a
spoon dipped in water.

Line steamer trays with damp cheesecloth or parchment paper that has
been brushed with sesame oil (if steamer trays are not available,
lightly brush several aluminum pie plates with sesame oil). Arrange
the shaped dumplings about 1/4-inch apart in the steamers or on the
plates.

Fill a wok or a spaghetti pot water level with the bottom edge of the
steamer tray and heat until boiling. Stack the steamer trays one on
top of the other, cover and place over the boiling water.
Alternatively, you may fit the pie plates in the spaghetti pot and
cover with the lid. Steam the dumplings for about 15 minutes over
high heat, reversing the stacked trays after 8 minutes.  Remove the
cooked dumplings and continue steaming the dumplings as necessary.
Sprinkle the finished dumplings with the minced scallion greens and
serve with dipping sauces.

