Title: ORANGE GUMDROPS
Categories: Candies
Yield: 72 Servings
1 c  Sugar
1 c  Light corn syrup
3/4 c  Water
1 pk (1 3/4-ounce) powdered fruit
-pectin
1/2 ts Baking soda
1 1/2 ts Orange extract
1 ts Finely shredded orange peel
4    Drops yellow food coloring
1    Drop red food coloring
Sugar
Line a 9x5x3-inch loaf pan with foil, extending foil over edges of
the pan.

Butter the foil; set pan aside.

Butter the sides of a heavy 1 1/2-quart saucepan.  In the saucepan
combine the 1 cup sugar and the corn syrup. Cook over medium-high
heat to boiling, stirring constantly with a wooden spoon to dissolve
sugar. This should take about 10 minutes.  Avoid splashing mixture on
sides of pan. Carefully clip candy thermometer to side of pan.

Cook over medium-high heat, stirring occasionally, till the
thermometer registers 280 deg.F., soft-crack stage. Mixture should
boil at a moderate, steady rate over the entire surface. Reaching
soft-crack stage should take about 10 minutes.

Meanwhile, in a heavy 2-quart saucepan combine water, pectin, and
baking soda. (Mixture will be foamy.) Cook over high heat to boiling,
stirring constantly. This should take about 2 minutes. Remove
saucepan from heat; set saucepan aside.

When sugar mixture has reached soft-crack stage, remove the saucepan
from heat; remove candy thermometer from saucepan. Return pectin
mixture to high heat; cook till mixture just begins to simmer.

_Gradually_ pour the hot sugar mixture in a thin stream (slightly
less than 1/8-inch diameter) into the boiling pectin mixture,
stirring constantly. This should take 1 to 2 minutes. Cook, stirring
constantly, 1 minute more.

Remove saucepan from heat.  Stir in orange extract, orange peel, and
yellow and red food colorings.  Pour candy mixture into prepared pan.
Let stand about 2 hours or till firm.

When firm, use foil to lift candy out of pan.  Use a buttered knive
to cut candy into about 3/4-inch squares. Roll squares in additional
sugar. Store loosely covered.  Makes about 72 pieces.

Cinnamon Gumdrops:  Prepare Orange Gumdrops as directed above, except
substitute 3 drops oil of cinnamon and 7 drops red food coloring for
the orange extract, orange peel, and yellow and red food colorings.

Mint Gumdrops:  Prepare Orange Gumdrops as directed above, except
substitute 3/4 teaspoon mint extract and 7 drops green food coloring
for the orange extract, orange peel, and yellow and red food
colorings.

Lemon Gumdrops:  Prepare Orange Gumdrops as directed above, except
substitute 1 1/2 teaspoons lemon extract, 1 teaspoon finely shredded
lemon peel, and 7 drops yellow food coloring for the orange extract,
orange peel, and yellow and red food colorings.

Hope this helps. Kyosho

