Title: ORANGE ANGEL CAKE
Categories: Cakes
Yield: 10 Servings
1 1/2 c  Nonfat yogurt cheese. (see
-note)
2 tb Orange juice concentrate
1 tb Honey
1 tb Grated orange rind
CAKE
3/4 c  Sifted unbleached flour
1/4 c  Sifted whole wheat pastry
-flour
12    Egg whites, at room
-temperature
1 1/2 ts Orange extract
1 ts Cream of tartar
1/2 c  Honey
2 c  Orange sections
Per serving: 160 calories, 0.3 g fat (2% of calories) 1.4 dietary
fiber,7.65 g protein, no cholesterol, 120 mg sodium. Also a good
source of vitamin C. Serves 10.

ORANGE CREAM

TO MAKE ORANGE CREAM: In a medium bowl, fold together the yogurt
cheese, orange juice concentrate, honey and orange rind. Chill.

TO MAKE THE CAKE: Sift the unbleached flour and pastry flour together.
Return the flour to the sifte. In a 5-6 puart bowl, beat the egg
whites with an electric mixer until bubbly. Add the orange extract
and cream of tartar.  Beat on medium speed until the whites form soft
peaks. Gradually beat in the honey until the whites are stiff. Sift
about 1/4 cup of the flour over the whites. Carefully fold it in with
a large spatula. Repeat until all the flour has been incorporated.
Spoon batter into an ungreased 9-10 inch ungreased tube pan with
removable bottom. Level top with a spatula.  Bake at 325 F for about
40-50 minutes, or until the top is golden and springs back when
lightly touched. Invert the pan onto a wire rack and let the cake
cool for 1 hour. To remove the cake from the pan, run a thin knife
around the outside edges. Remove the outer portion of the pan. Run a
thin knife around the center tube and also around the center tube and
also around the bottom of the cake.  Invert the cake onto a serving
plate. Serve with the orange sections and orange cream. (If desired,
place the cream in a pastry bag fitted with a star tip and pipe it
decoratively around or onto each slice.)

***NOTE***  To make the yogurt cheese, spoon about 4 cups of nonfat
yogurt into a sieve lined with a triple thickness of cheese cloth.
Place over a bowl, cover and refrigerate for 4 hours, or until very
thick.

Origin:  Prevention Magazine, June 1992 issue Shared by: Sharon
Stevens.

