Title: ORANGE BEEF WITH SUN-DRIED TOMATOES
Categories: Ethnic, Chinese, Stir-fry, Posted-mm, Suzy
Yield: 2 Servings
1 lb Flank steak
2 tb Brandy
2 tb Soy sauce
1 tb Cornstarch
1 tb Corn oil
8 c  Water
2 tb Sugar
1/4 c  Orange zest,finely julienned
From 1 lg. orange
1/2 c  Sun-dried tomatoes(NOT oil
-packed)
1/2 c  Corn oil
4    Scallions,cut on the diag.
Into 1-inch pieces
2 cl Garlic, chopped fine
2 tb Peeled,finely julienned
Ginger root
1    Jalapeno pepper,preferably
-red, chopped, with seeds
1/4 c  Chicken or beef stock
-coarse or kosher salt
-freshly ground pepper
Source: Susanna Foo Chinese Cuisine

To marinate the beef: Place the flank steak on a flat surface and cut
in half lengthwise. Cut into 1/8" wide slices on the diagonal,
cutting against the grain.

Mix the brandy and soy sauce in a bowl. Add the steak; mix. Add the
cornstarch and mix well to coat. Add the oil, mixing well to separate
the pieces of meat. Let sit at room temperature for 20 minutes or up
to one hour.

Meanwhile, cook the orange zest; Bring the water and the sugar to a
boil over high heat in a saucepan. Add the orange zest and boil for 5
minutes. Drain, rinse under cold water, squeeze dry and set aside.

Soak the sun-dried tomatoes in warm water for about 10 minutes, or
until softened. Cut them into julienne pieces.

In a large skillet or a wok, heat the oil until it is very hot, almost
smoking (350 degrees). Add the steak, using chopsticks or a large
fork to separate the pieces as they cook. Once the steak has turned
golden, about 2 minutes, remove it from the skillet with a slotted
spoon and drain well; set aside.

Remove all but 2 Tbl. oil from the skillet. Add the orange zest,
sundried tomatoes, scallions, garlic, ginger root and jalapeno. Cook
over high heat for 1-2 minutes, stirring, until the garlic is golden.

Return the steak to the skillet, add the stock, stir well and cook,
stirring for 3 minutes until all of the liquid is evaporated. Season
to taste with salt and pepper.

Transfer to a platter and serve.

Serves 2 as a main dish with rice or 4 in sandwiches with good bread.

Cook's tip: When stir-frying meat, marinate the slices in a mixture
of soy sauce, brandy and cornstarch, then mix in a little oil. Adding
some oil at this point and in this order is very important, for when
the pieces of meat are later cooked in hot oil, they will separate
easily.

The meat should be seared over very high heat to seal in the juices.

This quick-cooking technique keeps the outside well brown and crisp,
while the inside stays moist.

From the recipe files of suzy@gannett.infi.net

