Title: ORECCHIETTE WITH CARAMELIZED SHALLOTS PANCETT
Categories: Pasta, Vegetables
Yield: 4 Servings
1/4 lb Pancetta or bacon, cut into
-1/4-inch cubes
1 tb Butter
1 ts Minced garlic
1 lb Shallots (12 to 15 large),
-peeled and thickly sliced
1/2 ts Sugar
Salt & freshly ground pepper
1 1/2 c  Chicken or veal stock,
-preferably homemade
1/4 c  Heavy cream (optional)
1 c  Tightly packed fresh herb
-leaves, including rosemary,
-sage, thyme, marjoram, flat
-leaf parsley, and basil
1 lb Orecchiette
1/2 ts Olive oil
1 1/2 c  Grated imported Parmesan,
-preferably Parmigiano
-Reggiano
1. Place pancetta in a large saute pan and cook over medium-low heat,
stirring occasionally, until crisp, about 15 minutes. Using a slotted
spoon, remove from pan and drain on paper towels. Set aside. Pour off
all but 1 T of the fat.

2. Add butter to the fat in the pan. Add garlic, shallots, and sugar
and season lightly with salt and pepper. Reduce heat to lowest
setting and cook, covered, until shallots are soft and transparent,
about 15 minutes. Remove lid, raise heat to medium high, and cook,
stirring constantly, until pan has deep golden-brown coating, about
10 minutes. Do not allow to burn.

3. Add the stock and simmer until reduced by one-third, stirring to
loosen brown bits from bottom of pan, about 7 minutes. The sauce can
be prepared up to this point several hours ahead and kept, covered,
in the refrigerator.

4. Bring a large pot of water to a boil for the pasta. (Reheat the
shallot mixture if it was prepared in advance.) If using, add cream
to shallots and simmer for 2 minutes over high heat, until sauce
thickens slightly. Keep warm. Coarsely chop all but a small handful
of herbs.

5. Cook pasta according to package directions. Drain and return to
pot. Add chopped herbs to sauce and cook for another minute. Season
to taste with salt and pepper. Add pasta to sauce and toss together
over low heat for 1 minute. (As pasta and sauce heat, fry remaining
herbs in 1/2 t olive oil until crisp, for garnish.) Stir in pancetta
and 1/2 C of the grated cheese. Divide the pasta among 4 bowls.
Garnish with fried herbs. Serve remaining cheese on the side.

Martha Stewart Living/October/94 Scanned & edited by Di Pahl & <gg>

