Title: ORIENTAL STUFFED CHICKEN ROLLS WITH SWEET-SOU
Categories: Poultry
Yield: 5 Servings
5 lg Chicken breasts -- boneless
2 tb Cornstarch mixed with 1/4
2 c  Buttermilk baking mix
Water
1/3 c  Chopped green onions
2    Eggs -- slightly beaten
With
2 tb Oil
Water
1 c  Minced shrimp
Oil for deep-fat frying
8 oz Water chestnuts -- drained
And
Sweet-sour Apricot Sauce --
Chopped
3/4 c  Bean sprouts -- rinsed and
1/2 c  Packed brown sugar --
Drained
3 tb Soy sauce
2 tb Soy sauce
1 tb Instant chicken bouillon
1/2 ts Dry mustard
Looking for a new way to treat some leftovers, Margaret Thompson of
Chicago, an innovative cook, decided to use chop suey as a filling
for a French-style chicken roll. The dish was such a success that she
went one step further and concocted a delicious Oriental-style
filling of her own. Buttermilk baking mix gives the chicken an
extra-crunchy coating, topped by a sauce quickly made from apricot
preserves. To round out the menu, Mrs. Thompson serves crisp Chinese
noodles or steamed rice, cabbage slaw with an oil-vinegar dressing,
fruit compote with Chinese almond cookies and tea.

Place chicken between pieces of waxed paper and with a mallet or
broad side of a cleaver, pound thin.  Dredge in baking mix; set
chicken and baking mix aside.

In large skillet, saute onions in oil until tender. Add shrimp, water
chestnuts, bean sprouts, soy sauce and bouillon; cook and stir until
shrimp are opaque.

Add cornstarch mixture; cook and stir until thickened.

Place 2 tablespoons filling at one end of each breast half; roll up
and secure with toothpicks.  Dip in egg mixture; roll in remaining
baking mix.

Heat oil in fryer to 400~F.  Fry rolls 2 at a time 10 minutes or until
golden brown. Drain; keep warm in 300~ oven until serving time. Serve
with Sweet-sour Apricot Sauce.

NOTE: chicken can be pounded and dredged and filling can be made a day
ahead. Refrigerate until ready to use. Sauce keeps refrigerated at
least one month.

Sauce Combine all ingredients in small saucepan. Stir over medium-low
heat until sugar dissolves. Serve warm or at room temperature.

Makes about 2/3 cup.

:
Recipe By

Date: 05/30
From:

