Title: ORZO SALAD W/WILD MUSHROOMS & ASPARAGUS
Categories: S, L, D
Yield: 50 Buffet ser  6 medium red or yellow bell peppers
1 1/2    cups olive oil Salt and freshly ground black

Slice 1/3 inch thick: 2 lbs. fresh shiitake mushrooms, stems
discarded, caps sliced 1 lbs. fresh chanterrelles, 2 lbs. white
mushrooms, sliced 1/3" 3 lbs. thin asparagus, cut into 2 1/2-inch
lengths 4 medium leeks, white and tender green, split lengthwise and
sliced crosswise 1" thick 4 pounds orzo 1/4 C. fresh lemon juice (I
add much more lemon juice) 1 cup finely chopped fresh flat-leaf
parsley

1. Bring a large stockpot of water to a boil. Meanwhile, roast the
bell peppers directly over gas flames or under a broiler, turning
often, until charred all over. Transfer to a paper bag and let steam
for 15 minutes. Discard the blackened skins, stems, seeds, and ribs.
Chop the peppers into 1-inch pieces.

NOTE: Peppers can be prepared easily a day ahead by slicing in
quarters, removing seeds and membranes, roasting skin side up under a
broiler until skins are black. Then place peppers in a zip-lock bag
and refrigerate overnight. The next morning, the skins will slip
right off.

2. Heat 2 tablespoons of the oil in a large nonstick skillet. Add
half of the shiitakes and cook over high heat, stirring, until
browned, about 10 minutes. Season with salt and pepper and transfer
to a large platter. Repeat the process with the remaining shiitakes,
white mushrooms, and chanterelles, adding 2 tablespoons of oil for
each batch; cook the white mushrooms in 2 batches and the
chanterelles in 1 batch.

3. Add 1 tablespoon of olive oil to the skillet. Add the asparagus,
season with salt and pepper, and cook over moderately high heat,
stirring often, until browned and tender but still slightly firm,
about 5 minutes. Transfer to the platter with the mushrooms. Add 1
more tablespoon of olive oil to the skillet. Add the leeks, season
with salt and pepper, and cook, stirring often, until wilted and
beginning to brown, about 7 minutes. Add to the other vegetables.

4. Add 2 tablespoons salt to the boiling water. Add the orzo and cook,
stirring often, until al dente, about 10 minutes. Drain, rinse with
cold water, and drain again thoroughly. Transfer to a very large
bowl. Add all the vegetables and toss. In a small bowl, combine the
lemon juice, parsley, and the remaining 3/4 cup olive oil. Pour the
dressing over the orzo and toss again. Season with sale and pepper.
(The salad can be prepared up to 2 days ahead; cover and refrigerate.
Let return to room temperature before serving.

