Title: OSSO BUCO (GOURMET MAGAZINE)
Categories: Meats, Italian
Yield: 4 Servings
8    Lg Veal shanks, patted dry a
1    Salt, pepper to taste
Flour
7 tb Unsalted butter
3 tb Olive oil
1 1/2 c  Dry white wine
1 1/2 c  Onion, finely chopped
3/4 c  Carrots, finely chopped
3/4 c  Celery, finely chopped
1 ts Garlic, minced
4 c  Beef broth
1 1/2 c  Plum tomatoes, chopped
Bouquet garni
1/2 ts Salt
1    -
Gremolata:
1/2 c  Fresh parlsey, minced
2 tb Lemon zest
1 tb Garlic, minced
Season the veal shanks with salt and pepper and dredge in the flour,
shaking off excess.  In a heavy skillet, heat 3 Tbsp butter and 3
Tbsp oil over mod-high heat. Brown the veal shanks, adding additional
butter and oil if necessary.  Transfer the shanks as they are browned
to a platter. Add wine to the skillet, boil the mixture, deglazing
the pan, until the liquid is reduced to about a half cup. Reserve in
a small bowl. In a flameproof casserole just large enough to hold the
veal shanks in one layer, cook the onion, carrots, celery, and garlic
in the remaining 4 Tbsp butter over mod-low heat, stirring
occasionally, until the veggies are softened. Add the shanks and any
accumulated juices to the casserole. Add the wine mixture, and enough
broth to almost cover the shanks. Spread the tomatoes over the
shanks, add the bouquet garni (6 fresh parsley sprigs, 4 fresh thyme
sprigs, 1 bay leaf) and salt and pepper to taste. Bring the liquid to
a simmer over moderately high heat. Braise the mixture, covered, in
the middle of a preheated 325f oven for 2 hours, or until the veal is
tender. Transfer the veal to an ovenproof serving dish with a slotted
spoon. Discard the strings and keep the shanks warm. Strain pan
juices into a saucepan, pressing hard on the solids. Skim off the
fat. Boil for about 15 minutes or until reduced to about 3 cups.
Baste the shanks in some of the reduced juices, and bake them,
basting 3-4 more times, for 10 minutes or until the shanks are
glazed. In a bowl, stir together the parsley, zest, and garlic.
Sprinkle the shanks with the gremolata and pour some juice around and
over them. Serve the remaining juices alongside in a boat. a 1974
Gourmet Mag. favorite

