Title: PA-PAO-FAN (EIGHT TREASURE RICE PUDDING)
Categories: Chinese, Pudding
Yield: 8 Servings
2 c  Glutinous rice
1/4 c  Lard
1/2 lb Pitted dates; finely chopped
8    Whole dates; cut in half
1 c  Canned red bean paste
20    Dried jujubes
2 tb Sugar
2 tb Melted lard
Red & green candied cherries
MMMMM---------------------------SYRUP--------------------------------
1/4 c  Sugar
1 c  ;cold water
1 ts Almond extract
1 tb Cornstarch; dissolve in
3 tb ;cold water
"This dessert is known as eight-treasure or eight-precious or even
eight-jewel pudding because in China the design on the top of it was
made with 8 different kinds of dried and candied fruits or nuts --
such as dried lotus seeds, candied green or red plums, seeded
dragon's eye nuts, watermelon seeds, preserved dates, dried jujubes,
candied orange peel, candied red or green cherries, and blanched
walnuts. The version described here is simply decorated with pitted
dates, dried jujubes and candied cherries."

Prepare ahead: 1. In a large bowl, cover the rice with cold water and
soak for 2 hours.

2. In a 12-inch wok or 10-inch skillet, melt the 1/4 cup lard over
moderate heat. Add the chopped dates and red-bean paste, and cook
over low heat, stirring frequently, for 20 minutes, or until the
mixture begins to come away from the sides of the pan. emove from the
pan to a small bowl and cool to room temperature.

3. Combine the jujubes and 2 cups cold water in a 2-quart saucepan.
Over high heat, bring the water to a boil, then reduce the heat to
low and simmer the jujubes, covered, for about 10 minutes. Drain the
jujubes through a sieve, and, when they are cool enough to handle,
cut them in half and remove and discard the pits.

4. Have the rice, date and bean-paste mixture, jujubes, cherries,
sugar, water, almond extract and cornstarch all within easy reach.

To cook: 5. Pour enough boiling water into the lower part of a
steamer to come within an inch of the cooking rack (or use a steamer
substitute). Line the rack with a double layer of paper towels. Drain
the rice and spread it evenly over the lined rack. Over high heat,
bring the water in the steamer to a rolling boil, cover the pan
tightly and steam the rice for 30 minutes, or until the rice is
thoroughly cooked, replenishing the water if it boils away.

6. Transfer the rice to a bowl, and stir into it the 2 tablespoons of
sugar and 2 tablespoons of melted lard. Spoon half the rice into a
shallow heat-proof bowl (about 6 inches across and 3 inches deep). On
top, place the red-bean-paste mixture, spreading it to within 1/2
inch of the sides of the bowl. Place the remaining rice over it,
spreading it out evenly to the edges of the bowl and pressing down on
it lightly with the palm of your hand. Put an inverted dinner plate
over the top of the bowl, and, grasping the edges of both the plate
and the bowl, turn them over together. Lift the bowl up gently to
unmold the pudding.

7. Now decorate the sides and top of the pudding with the jujubes,
halved dates and candied cherries. Any sort of design you devise
would be proper. For instance, the bottom edge of the pudding may be
decorated with a row of date halves spaced about an inch apart, the
top edge rimmed with jujubes, laid side by side, and the top of the
pudding ornamented with flowers and leaves made of cherries.

8. When the decoration is complete, gently spread a long piece of
plastic wrap over it to hold the fruit in place, invert the bowl
again and carefully set it over the top of the pudding. Grasping the
edges of the bowl and plate together, turn the bowl over and remove
the plate. Bring the water in the steamer to a boil again, place the
bowl on the rack and cover the pan tightly. Steam the pudding for an
hour, replenishing the water when it boils away. Have a kettle of
boiling water handy.

To Serve: 9. A few minutes before the pudding is done, make the syrup
by combining the 1/4 cup of sugar with the cup of water in a small
saucepan and boiling it until the sugar dissolves. Add the almond
extract, give the cornstarch mixture a quick stir to recombine it and
sitr it into the syrup. Cook, stirring, for a few seconds until the
syrup thickens slightly and becomes clear. Now remove the pudding
from the steamer and place a circular serving plate over it. Grasping
bowl and plate securely, turn them over. The pudding should slide out
easily. Carefully peel off the plastic wrap. Pour the hot syrup over
the pudding and serve at once.

Source: Time-Life Foods of the World: Chinese Cooking

