Title: PAD PHED PLADUK (HOT & SPICY CATFISH).
Categories: Oriental, Curry, Fish, Main dish
Yield: 6 Servings
10 1/2 oz Grated Coconut (unsweetened)
2 1/4 lb Catfish fillet.
3 tb Finely sliced lemongrass.
1 tb Galanga, sliced thin.
1 tb Kaffir lime rind, sliced.
2 tb Cillantro roots.
2 tb Krachai, finely sliced.
20    Fresh very hot Thai chilli.
20    Peppercorns
1/2 ts Salt.
4    Onions, medium size.
8    Cloves of garlics.
9    Dry red chilli, remove seeds
1/2 ts Coliander seeds.
1/2 ts Cumin.
3    Mace.
2    Cardamom
1/2 ts Nutmeg.
4    Kaffir lime leaves.
1. Use the grated coconut to make 1-1/4 cups of coconut milk, by
adding 1/2 cup of very hot water, and working the mixture thouroughly
and squeezing out the coconut milk. You may also substitute an
equivalent amount of canned (unsweetened) coconut milk.
2. Cut the catfish fillet into medium size cubes (about 2" x 2").
3. Discard seeds from the dry chilli, and soak in cold water for at
least a half hour.
4. Separate about 1/2 cup of "cream" from the coconut milk, and heat
in a frying pan. Fry the catfish pieces in the coconut "cream" till
just cooked and put aside.
5. Put the following ingredients in a motar: salt, peppercorns, cumin,
coriander seeds, mace, cardamon, nutmeg. Pound till well mixed into a
fine pulp. Drain the dried chilli (discarding the water) and add to
the paste in motar. Continue pounding till the chilli pieces are
mixed in. Add lemongrass, galanga, kaffir lime rind, cillantro roots,
krachai, and fresh Thai chilli. Continue pounding until it's a fine
well mixed paste. (NOTE: You may substitute with an equivalent amount
of premade Thai "Red Curry Paste"). 6. Take the above curry paste
with the remaining coconutmilk, and fry over high heat till boiling.
Lower heat to medium and continue frying, with stiring, till oil
starts to form on top of the mixture. Add the cooked fish pieces and
the coconut "cream" mixture. Lower the heat to low, and gently cook
till thouroughly heated. Adjust tastes with fish sauce and a little
sugar (just to have a very slight sweet taste). Add several kaffir
lime leaves and cooked for a little while longer.
7. Remove to a serving platter and garnish with slices of fresh red
chilli peppers. Serve with plain boiled white rice.

