Title: PAIN D 'AIL (GARLIC BREAD)
Categories: New import
Yield: 4 Servings
8    To 10 garlic cloves, peeled
(use less if you want just
A hint of garlic
1/4 c  (1/2 stick) butter, room
Temperature
5    To 5 1/2 cups bread flour
(divided use)
1 pk Dry yeast
2 ts Salt
1 tb Sugar
1/3 c  Nonfat dry milk
2 1/4 c  Hot water (120 F to 130 F)
Pound garlic into a smooth paste in mortar or put through garlic
press. Mix softened butter with garlic. Set aside. Grease 2 medium
(8x4 inch) loaf pans. Measure 3 cups flour into mixer bowl and add
yeast, salt, sugar and dry milk. Stir to blend. Using flat beater
attachment and with mixer running, pour in water to form thick
batter. Drop in garlic butter mixture and mix 2 minutes at medium
speed. Add rema When dough clings to flat beater without mixing,
attach dough hook. Add more flour if necessary to form a soft ball
around revolving hook. If dough clings to side of bowl, add light
sprinkles of flour. Knead in the mixer for 10 minutes, or turn dough
onto floured work surface and knead by hand until dough is soft and
elastic. Add sprinkles of flour if dough is sticky. Place dough in
greased bowl, cover tightly with plastic wrap and leave in a warm
place until doubled in volume, 45 minutes to 1 hour. Turn dough onto
floured work surface, knead briefly to push out air bubbles and
divide in half. Press each half into flat oval, about the length of
each pan. Fold in half lengthwise, pinch seam together, tuck in ends
and drop seam side down into baking pa Preheat oven to 375 F. Bake
dough on middle shelf of oven for 40 minutes. Loaves will be light
brown. To test for doneness, turn 1 loaf out of pan and thump bottom
crust. It should sound hard and hollow. If not, return to oven,
without pan, for 5 to 10 minutes. Turn loaves out of pans onto racks
to cool. Makes 12 slices each.

Per slice: Calories 124 Fat 3g Cholesterol 6 mg Sodium 208 mg Percent
calories from fat 20%

KRT News Service/"Bernard Clayton's New Complete Book of Breads "
Dallas Morning News 9/18/96 Typos by Bobbie Beers

