Title: PANE DI MATTINA ALLA SICILIANA
Categories: Breads, Italy
Yield: 2 Servings
1 ts Olive oil
1 pk Active dry yeast
1/2 c  +1ts sugar
1 1/3 c  Scalded milk cool to 100F
6 1/2 c  Unbleached flour;approximate
1/4 c  Dried currents
1/3 c  Golden raisins
1/3 c  Marsala
1/2 c  Unsalted butter
3 tb Shortening
1 1/2 ts Fennel seeds
4    Eggs
1 tb Grated lemon rind
1/2 ts Salt
MMMMM--------------------------EGG WASH-------------------------------
1 tb Whipping cream
1    Egg yolk
1/2 tb Marsala
brush olive oil over surface of a large stainless steel bowl. Put
yeast and 1 teaspoon sugar in bottom of bowl add 1 cup of scalded
milk and stir to disolve the yeast. Set aside for 10 minutes then add
1-1/2 cups flour and remaining milk. Knead by hand or with mixer and
dough hook till dough is soft and silky, about 7 or 8 minutes. Cover
and let rise for 5 hours. While dough rises soak currents and raisins
in Marsala for at least 1 hour. In a small sauce pan over low heat,
melt butter and add 2 tablespoons shortening. add fennel seed, remove
from heat and let stand till cool. add eggs one at a time to the
fennel seed mixture and mix after each addition then add lemon rind
and remaining sugar. Set aside. when dough has risen 5 hours add
fennel seed mixture and mix well. add salt and begin adding remaining
flour, 1/2 cup at a time. when dough is firm enough to knead turn out
onto a lightly floured board and knead till soft and smooth about 10
to 15 minutes, adding as much additional flour as necessary to keep
it from sticking. During final 5 minutes knead in raisins and
currents. form dough into 2 loaves. use remaining shortening 2 grease
2 nine inch pans place dough in pans cover and let rise till doubled
in bulk. this may take as long as 3 hours. preheat oven to 375 brush
egg wash on bread 5 minutes before baking. brush again immediately
before baking. Bake until loaves are golden brown and sound hollow
when tapped about 35 minutes turn out and cool. this is Sicily's
answer to the moring danish. recipe from The Coles group's,
California Culinary Academy Italian cooking at the academy.

