Title: PANETTONE
Categories: Ethnic, Cakes, Low-cal, Holiday
Yield: 2 Servings
1 c  Candied cherries
1/4 c  Marsala
3 3/4 c  All-purpose flour
1/3 c  Granulated sugar
1/2 ts Salt
5 ts Quick-rising dry yeast
1/4 ts Freshly grated nutmeg
2/3 c  Unsalted butter, softened
1/4 c  Milk
1/2 c  Water
1 ts Vanilla
2    Eggs
2    Egg yolks
1    Zest of half an orange
1/2 c  Nuts (pine nuts, walnuts,
-or hazelnuts)
1/2 c  Green candied pineapple
-edges
1    Powdered sugar for dusting
-on the top
An Italian Christmas is not complete without this high-domed cylinder
of fruit-studded sweet bread. This recipe has an option of using the
microwave to make the bread rise. Soak the cherries in the wine. In
the processor bowl fitted with steel blade, combine flour, sugar,
salt, yeast and nutmeg. Pulse to mix. Cut butter into pieces and
arrange on the top. Pulse to blend so that it almost disappears. In a
glass measure, combine the milk and water. Microwave on high about 40
seconds (see power levels), then with a fork, whisk in the vanilla,
eggs, and egg yolks. With the processor motor running, drizzle the
liquids very slowly into the flour mixture processor. Process 60
seconds. Add orange zest and pulse to mix. Transfer to large glass
mixing bowl and cover loosely with plastic wrap. To use the microwave
for bread rising, place the bowl in the microwave. Place an 8-ounce
glass of water in the back of the microwave. Lower the microwave to
low (see power levels). Place the dough in the microwave. Heat on low
for 3 minutes. Rest for 3 minutes. Heat on low for 3 minutes longer.
Rest for 6 minutes, or until the batter has risen to double in bulk
and is bubbly and light. Or let the dough rise in a warm draft-free
place about 45 to 60 min. When dough has doubled in bulk, stir the
batter down, then stir in the cherry mixture, nuts and candied
pineapple until well distributed. Grease generously and lightly flour
two, 1-pound coffee cans. Cut a parchment or wax paper circle to fit
the bottom of each can and add it, dusting and flouring it as well.
Spoon the batter into the cans, filling about halfway. Press down
slightly. Let rise in a warm, draft free place until nearly doubled
in bulk, about 30 minutes. Meanwhile, preheat oven to 325 degrees.
Just before popping it in the oven, cut an X in the tops of the
loaves with a razor. Italian bakers put a blob of butter into the
cut. Bake at 325 degrees for 1 hour, or until evenly browned and a
skewer stuck in the center comes out clean. Remove immediately to a
rack to cool, then 15 minutes later, slide the cakes out of the pans
and lay them on their sides to continue cooling. Dust with powdered
sugar while warm. When cooled, wrap in plastic to store.

