Title: PAPPARDELLE WITH WINE & HERB-BRAISED DUCK
Categories: Poultry
Yield: 4 Servings
1 sm To medium-sized duck, cut
-into small serving pieces
Salt and pepper
2 c  Boiling water
10    Dried shiitake mushrooms
2    Onions, chopped
2 tb Olive oil
4 oz Pancetta, diced (prosciutto
-or other full-flavored
-ham may be substituted)
3    Garlic cloves, chopped
1    Carrot, diced
6    Sage leaves
1    Sprig rosemary
1 c  Dry red wine
1 c  Beef broth
2 tb Tomato paste
1/4 ts Fennel seeds
6    Kale leaves, or outer
-cabbage leaves
2 c  Cooked, drained cranberry
-beans or borlotti beans
1 lb Pappardelle
Freshly grated cheese,
-to taste
Sprinkle duck generously with salt and pepper, prick the skin well
with a fork (this helps the fat to drain out), then place in a
roasting pan and roast, uncovered, in a 350 degree oven about 45
minutes. Pour off fat from pan once or twice during cooking, and
discard. Meanwhile, pour the boiling water over mushrooms. Cover and
let rehydrate. Set aside. Lightly saute onion in olive oil with
pancetta, garlic and carrot until onion is softened, then add half of
the sage and the rosemary. Pour in half of the wine; boil down until
reduced by about half, then add remaining wine and half of the broth.
Continue to boil down for about 5 minutes, then add tomato paste and
fennel seeds. Cover and simmer for 20 minutes over low heat. When
duck is cool enough to handle, remove skin and bones. Cut meat into
bite-sized pieces and add to sauce. Blanch the greens quickly in
boiling water, drain and run under cold water. Cut into bite-sized
pieces. Add to the simmering sauce, along with the beans. Pour all
the fat out of duck-roasting pan. Place pan over medium heat and add
remaining broth, stirring to incorporate any full-flavored bits. Add
this liquid to the simmering sauce, along with remaining sage leaves.
Remove mushrooms from their soaking liquid, discard stems, and slice
caps; add to sauce. Strain the mushroom-soaking liquid through a
double layer of cheesecloth or a paper coffee filter, and add to the
sauce. If the sauce is too thin, strain into a saucepan and boil down
until reduced in volume and intensified in flavor. Return to sauce
solids. Cook pappardelle until al dente, then serve with the sauce.
Sprinkle cheese on top. Serves 4 to 6.

