Title: PARGO AL HORNO A LA VISZCAINA (BAKED WHOLE SN
Categories: Fish, Cuba, Update
Yield: 4 Servings
4 lb Snapper, cleaned
-and prepared for baking,
-with head and tail left
-on (or substitute sea
-bass, striped bass,
-or pike)
Salt; to taste
Black pepper to taste
Juice of 2 limes
3 sl Lemon
1/4 c  Spanish olive oil
5    Cloves garlic, minced
MMMMM----------------------FOR THE SOFRITO---------------------------
1/4 c  Spanish olive oil
1 sm Onion, finely chopped
1/2 sm Green bell pepper,
-seeded and finely chopped
2 c  Peeled, seeded, and chopped
-fresh, ripe tomatoes,
-or drained and chopped
-canned whole tomatoes
1/2 c  Chopped, drained pimiento
-stuffed green olives
1/2 ts Salt
1/4 ts Dried oregano
1/2 c  Dry white wine or dry sherry
Black pepper to taste
-or dashes of Tabasco sauce
MMMMM--------------------TO COMPLETE THE DISH-------------------------
2 tb Spanish olive oil
4 md All-purpose potatoes,
-peeled and sliced into
-very thin rounds
Salt
Black pepper
1/4 c  Parsley for garnish, chopped
Rinse the fish in cold water, dry it well inside and out with paper
towels, and place it in a large, shallow, nonreactive platter that
fits it comfortably. Sprinkle it inside and out with salt, pepper,
and lime juice. With a sharp knife, make 3 incisions, going right
down to the bone, and insert a slice of lemon into each incision.
Whisk together the oil and garlic and pour over the fish, rubbing it
into the skin. Cover and allow to marinate in the refrigerator
several hours or overnight.
For the sofrito, heat the oil until fragrant in a skillet over low
heat, then cook the onion and bell pepper, stirring, until
transparent, 6 to 8 minutes. Add the tomatoes, olives, salt, oregano,
and wine, and cook, stirring occasionally, 10 to 15 minutes. Season
with pepper and set the tomato sauce aside. Just before serving,
place the sauce over low heat for 8 to 10 minutes, until heated
through.
Meanwhile, preheat the oven to 400 degrees and set the rack in the
upper middle position. Rub the bottom of a large baking sheet with 1
tablespoon of the oil, arrange the potato slices evenly on the baking
sheet, forming a square, and season with salt and pepper. Place the
fish on top of the potatoes and drizzle the remaining tablespoon of
oil over it. Wrap the tail in aluminum foil and bake until the fish
flakes easily,
45    minutes.
When the fish is done, carefully slide it onto a large, heated
platter, remove the foil from the tail, and arrange the potatoes
around the head and tail. Spoon the tomato sauce along the sides,
sprinkle with the parsley, and serve. Makes 4 servings

