Title: PASTA WITH EGGS~ LEEKS & CREAM
Categories: Pasta, Sauces and
Yield: 4 Servings
1 lb Dried Pasta -- -or-
3/4 lb Fresh Pasta -- * see note
3 md Leeks
1/4 c  Unsalted Butter -- or
Salted
4    Eggs -- -or-
1 c  Egg Substitute
1/4 c  Parmesean Cheese -- freshly
Grated
1/4 c  Light Cream -- (or
Evaporated milk)
Salt
Fresh Ground Pepper
* recommended angel hair, penne or gemelli.

Trim the leeks, discarding the root end and the tough green tops.
Slice the leeks lengthwise and wash under cold running water to
remove all the dirt. Cut the white portions and the tender green tops
crosswise into very thin slices.

In a large wide frying pan over medium heat melt the butter. Add the
leeks and saute, stirring until tender, about 5 minutes. Remove from
heat, cover pan and keep warm.

In a bowl, beat together the eggs, cheese, cream and salt and pepper
to taste.  Set aside.

Cook pasta until almost al dente.  Drain the pasta and add it to the
frying pan holding the leeks and raise the heat to high. Pour in the
egg mixture and stir well until the eggs are firm but not dry, 1-2
minutes.

Serve immediately.  Pass the more cheese at the table.

Serves 4 (unless you have seconds!)

NOTES:

I made this recipe for the first time last night and it was
scrumptious. And not only was it good, it was fast and easy -- and
vegetarian (but definitely not vegan). If you put the water for the
pasta on to boil while slicing the leeks, it can be done in about 15
minutes. It's going into my "got home late and everyone is starving
and have to get dinner on the table FAST" file.

The original recipe calls for butter, eggs and cream, which don't fit
on my low-fat diet.  So I substituted egg-substitute and evaporated
skim milk for the eggs and cream and cut down on the butter.

The recipe is from the Williams-Sonoma Kitchen Library: Pasta Sauces,
1994 (ISBN 0-7835-0283-4)

The recipe notes that adding 1/4 pound (120 g) diced bacon to saute
with the leeks turns this into a carbonara sauce.

: Laurie Thompson <llt@GWIS2.CIRC.GWU.EDU>
Recipe By

