Title: PASTA & VARIATIONS
Categories: Italy, Pasta, Sauces
Yield: 6 Servings
3 c  All-purpose flour*
1 ts Salt
3/4 c  Plus 2 Tablespoons water
*Or unbleached flour.
Place flour in a mound on a large flat surface.
Make a well in the center.  Add water and salt.
Using a fork, gently start to work flour from the side of the well
into the liquid mixture.  Continue until dough becomes sticky and
difficult to work with the fork. Knead by hand to make a
rough-looking dough. Let dough rest 10 minutes.  Knead dough until
most of the flour is used and dough is smooth and elastic, about 10
minutes. Divide dough into 3 or 4 balls and place balls in a plastic
bag; set aside to rest 30 minutes before rolling by hand.  Roll out 1
ball at a time to desired thickness and cut into desired shape and
width. Yield: Makes about 6 servings Source: Sophie Kay's Pasta
Cookery BEET PASTA: Drain 1 (8-oz) can cooked sliced beets.
Puree in blender with 1 Tablespoon vegetable oil.
Make a well in 2-1/2 cups all-purpose or unbleached flour. Spoon beet
puree into well.  Add 1 teaspoon salt. Continue as directed above.
Makes about 4 servings. BROCCOLI PASTA: Cook 10 ounces frozen chopped
broccoli; drain.  Puree in blender with 1 room temperature, large
egg. Make a well in 2-1/2 cups all-purpose or unbleached flour. Spoon
broccoli puree into well. Add 1 teaspoon salt.  Continue as directed
above. Makes about 4 servings. EGG NOODLE PASTA: Make a well in 2-1/4
cups all-purpose or unbleached flour. Break 3 room temperature, large
eggs into the well. Add 1 teaspoon salt. Beat mixture in the well
with a fork about 10 strokes before working in flour.
Continue as directed above.  Makes 4 servings. EGG PASTA: Make a
well in 3 cups all-purpose, unbleached semolina or whole wheat flour.
Break 4 room temperature large eggs into the well. Add 1 Tablespoon
vegetable oil, 1 Tablespoon water and 1/2 teaspoon salt. Beat mixture
in the well with a fork about 10 strokes before working in Continue
as directed above.
Makes about 6 servings. LEMON PASTA:  Make a well in 2 cups
all-purpose or unbleached flour. Add 1/3 cup lemon juice, grated peel
of 2 lemons and 1/2 teaspoon salt to the well. Continue as directed
above. Makes about 4 servings. (Notes: Recipe continues in Note 2; MM
users, you will have to delete this paragraph, my signature and the
first paragraph in Part 2 after you down-load the recipe) ONION
PASTA: Make a well in 2-1/2 cups all-purpose or unbleached flour.
Break 4 room temperature, large eggs into the well.  Add 2
Tablespoons vegetable oil and 1 (1-1/4 oz) package dry onion soup
mix. Beat mixture into the well with a fork about 10 strokes before
working in flour. Continue as directed above. Makes about 4 servings.
PINEAPPLE PASTA: Make a well in 2-1/4 cups all-purpose or unbleached
flour. Gently add 1 (6 oz) can thawed, frozen pineapple juice
concentrate and 1/4 cup sugar to the well. Beat mixture in the well
with a fork about 10 strokes before working in flour.
Continue as directed above. Makes about 4 servings. SEMOLINA FLOUR
PASTA: Make a well in 2 cups semolina flour. Add 1/2 cup plus 3
Tablespoons water, 2 Tablespoons vegetable oil and 1 teaspoon salt to
the well. Continue as directed above.  Makes about 4 servings. SPICY
ITALIAN PASTA: Make a well in 2 cups all-purpose or unbleached flour.
Break 1 room temperature egg into well.  Add 1/4 cup water, 2
Tablespoons vinegar, 1 Tablespoon vegetable oil and 1 (.06-oz)
package dry Italian salad dressing mix. Beat mixture in the well with
a fork about 10 strokes before working in flour. Continue as directed
above. Makes 3 to 4 dozen chips. SPINACH PASTA: Cook 10 ounces of
fresh or frozen spinach; drain. Puree in blender with 1 room
temperature, large egg.  Make a well in 3 cups all- purpose or
unbleached flour. Break another room temperature large egg into well.
Add 1-1/2 teaspoons salt. Beat mixture in the well with a fork about
10 strokes. Add spinach puree and beat before working in the flour.
Continue as directed above.  Makes about 6 servings. WHOLE WHEAT
PASTA: Make a well in 2 cups sifted whole-wheat flour.  Break 2 room
temperature large eggs into the well.  Add 2 to 3 Tablespoons water,
1 Tablespoon vegetable oil and 1 teaspoon salt. Beat mixture in the
well with a fork about 10 strokes before working in flour. Continue
as above. Makes about 4 servings. ZUCCHINI PASTA:  Cook 10 ounces
cubed fresh zucchini in 1/2 cup boiling water until tender; drain.
Puree in blender with 1 room temperature, large egg and 1 Tablespoon
vegetable oil.
Make a well in 4 cups all-purpose or unbleached flour. Break another
room temperature, large egg into well. Add 2 teaspoons sugar and 1
teaspoon salt.
Beat mixture in the well with a fork about 10 strokes. Add zucchini
puree and beat before working in the flour. Continue as above. Makes
about 8 servings.

