Title: PASTA WITH CILANTRO CREAM SEAFOOD SAUCE
Categories: Fish & seaf, Pasta
Yield: 4 Servings
40    Steamer clams, about 2
Pounds
1 lb Medium raw shrimp
8 oz Rotelle, fettucine, or your
Favorite pasta
3 tb Extra virgin olive oil
2 oz Parmesan cheese
1 sm Bunch cilantro, large stems
Removed -- (about 1
Cup)
1/2 c  Fresh basil leaves
2 tb Fresh ginger -- finely
Minced
2/3 c  Chicken stock
1/4 c  Dry sherry
1 tb Cornstarch
1 ts Asian chile sauce
1/2 ts Salt
1/3 c  Whipping cream
Advance preparation: Scrub the clams and refrigerate. Shell, devein,
and split the shrimp nearly in half lengthwise. In separate
containers, set aside the pasta, oil, and cheese. To make the sauce,
place all the sauce ingredients except the cream in an electric
blender and blend at the highest speed until completely liquefied.
Transfer to a container, stir in the cream, and refrigerate. All
advance preparation steps may be completed up to 8 hours before you
begin the final cooking steps. Final cooking steps: Grate the cheese,
about 1/2 cup. Bring 4 quarts of water to a rapid boil.

Lightly salt the water, then cook the pasta according to the
instructions on the package.  When the pasta loses its raw taste but
is still slightly firm, remove from the heat and drain. Meanwhile,
place a small colander lined with cheesecloth in a bowl.  Place a 12-
or 14-inch saute pan over high heat.  Add 1/4 inch of water. When the
water comes to a rapid boil, add the clams, cover and steam until all
the clams open, about 1 to 2 minutes.  Immediately tip the clams into
the colander lined with cheesecloth.  Then add 3/4 cup of the
clam-steaming water to the cilantro sauce. Return the empty saute pan
to high heat. Add the olive oil. When the oil becomes hot, add the
shrimp. Stir and toss until the shrimp turn white. Add the cilantro
sauce. When the cilantro sauce comes to a boil and thickens slightly,
add the clams (but not the remaining liquid in the bowl) and combine
evenly with the sauce. Place the pasta on a heated platter or 4
heated dinner plates.  Spoon the seafood and sauce on top of the
pasta. Sprinkle with cheese and serve at once. Suggested
Accompaniments: Green bean and walnut salad and a ginger-praline
mousse.

: Hot Pasta, by Hugh Carpenter and Teri Sandison
Recipe By

From: Rooby <rooby@shell.Masterpiece.Codate: Sun, 27 Oct 1996 22:27:23
~0800

