Title: PAUPIETTES DE BOEUF
Categories: Crockpot, Meats, Main dish, Beef
Yield: 8 Servings
2 tb Butter, margarine
2    Onions, medium; peeled and
Minced finely
1/2 lb Mushrooms; fresh, minced
1 tb Lemon rind; grated
2 tb Bread crumbs; unflavored
1/2 c  Parsley; fresh, minced
1 ts Salt
1/4 ts Pepper
2    Eggs; slightly beaten
1 lb Bottom round of beef; cut
Into 16 thin slices, each
4 inches square
Salt,pepper,thyme-grnd,flour
4 tb Butter or margarine
1 c  Water, warm
2    Garlic cloves; medium,
Peeled and crushed
2 tb Mustard;White Dijon,prepared
To Cook:  In a heavy skillet, over medium-low heat, melt 2
tablespoons of butter and saute the onion and mushrooms until the
onion is translucent. Stir in the lemon rind, bread crumbs, parsley,
1 teaspoon salt, and 1/4 teaspoon pepper.  When the parsley has
wilted ~ about 1 minute after you add it to the skillet - quickly
stir in the eggs to bind the mixture and remove skillet from the heat
at once.  Set aside. With a rolling pin or a wooden mallet, flatten
the beef pieces until each is very thin and about twice its original
size. As you finish each piece, season it with a little salt, pepper,
and a pinch of thyme. At the widest end of each beef slice, place 1
teaspoon of bread-crumb mixture from the skillet. Roll up the meat,
sausage-shape, and secure it with a wooden toothpick through the
center. Roll each piece in flour. In a very large skillet, over
medium- high heat, melt 4 tablespoons of butter and brown the pieces
of beef. As you finish, place them in the slow-cooker. Pour the water
into the skillet; scrape up the pan juices and turn the sauce into
the cooker. Cover and cook on Low for about 5 hours. Before serving:
About half an hour before serving, mix the garlic and mustard into
the sauce around the beef; cover; turn the heat to High, and cook for
30 minutes. If the sauce seems less flavorful than you like, about 5
minutes before serving add a dab of prepared mustard and a little
salt.  If the sauce seems thin, leave the cover off during the second
cooking period.

