Title: PEAR SORBET IN MERINGUE SHELLS
Categories: Desserts, Fruits
Yield: 8 Servings
32 oz Pear slices in light or
-heavy syrup*
2 tb Pear liqueur; or to taste*
1 ts Lemon Juice
MMMMM----------------------MERINGUE SHELLS---------------------------
Butter, unsalted; for baking
-sheets
Flour; for baking sheets
4    Egg Whites; room temp
1/2 ts Cream of tartar
1 pn Salt
1 c  Sugar
1/2 ts Vanilla extract
MMMMM----------------------RASPBERRY SAUCE---------------------------
10 oz Raspberries, frozen; thawed
2 tb Sugar, superfine
1/2 ts Cornstarch
1 ts Lemon juice; or lime juice
*   This sorbet, based simply on commercially canned pears, can be
enhanced with the flavor of eau-de-vie de poire (pear liqueur)
if preferred, with fresh lemon juice. Pears in heavy syrup
smooth-textured sorbet; pears in light syrup yield a
icier sorbet.
:
or, :
make a :
grainier or :

One day before serving, place cans of pears in coldest part of
freezer. Freeze until completely frozen, at least 6 hours. Rinse cans
briefly under warm water. Open each can at both ends, leaving bottom
of can in place. Push the frozen pears and syrup into a large bowl.
Let stand just until softened enough to break frozen mass easily into
3 or 4 pieces, about 15 minutes.  Remove to food processor.

Process pear mixture, using repeated on/off motion, until slushy. Add
liqueur and lemon juice; process until blended. Spoon into freezer
container.  Freeze, tightly covered, until sorbet is solid and flavors
mellow, at least 3 hours.

Meringues:  Butter 2 large baking sheets; dust with flour and shake
off excess. Using a 4-inch cardboard template or saucer and the point
of a wooden skewer or pick, outline four 4-inch circles, even spaced,
on each baking sheet. Set aside.

Heat oven to 200F.

Beat egg whites, cream of tartar, and salt in large bowl on medium
speed until stiff but not dry.  Beat in 2/3 cup of the sugar, 1
tablespoon at a time, beating thoroughly after each addition; beat in
vanilla; then continue to beat until whites are very stiff and shiny.
If mixture feels grainy when small amount is rubbed between your two
fingers, sugar is not dissolved completely, and mixture must be
beaten a little longer. Fold in remaining sugar gently but thoroughly.

Spoon meringue gently into large pastry bag fitted with 1/2-inch
fluted tip; fill in traced circles on baking sheets, starting at
center of each circle and working to outside edge, in even spiral.
When all circles are filled, pipe a standing rim around circumference
of each circle.

Bake meringue shells until dry and very pale beige, 2 to 2-1/2 hours.
Turn off oven; let meringues stand in oven with door closed 2 hours.

Remove baking sheets to wire racks; let meringues stand 15 minutes;
then carefully loosen them with wide flat metal spatula and transfer
to wire racks.  Let cool completely. Use immediately or store loosely
covered at room temperature up to 3 days.

Sauce:  Puree raspberries in food processor; press through sieve and
discard seeds.  Mix sugar and cornstarch in small saucepan; stir in
raspberry puree gradually; stir until thoroughly blended. Heat over
low heat, stirring constantly, until sauce boils and thickens. Remove
from heat. Refrigerate until very cold, at least 2 hours. Stir in
lemon juice before serving.

Scoop generous portions of sorbet into meringue shells. Pour raspberry
sauce over each serving. Serve immediately.

