Title: PEAR TART WITH FRANGIPANE
Categories: Desserts, Pies, Fruits/nuts
Yield: 8 Servings
1    (9-in) pre-baked tart shell
1 1/2 c  Sugar
1    2" piece of vanilla bean
- split open
2    Strips of lemon zest
-(1" x 2" each)
2 tb Freshly squeezed lemon juice
3 lg Ripe pears
-(Bosc, if possible)
1/2 c  Whole blanched almonds
2 c  Milk
1    2" piece of vanilla bean
2    Eggs
2    Egg yolks
3/4 c  Sugar
1 c  Flour
6 tb Butter; in 1/2-in bits
1/2 c  Dry or stale macaroons
- pulverized
1/2 c  Kirsch
1 1/2 c  Apricot jam
1/4 c  Kirsch
3 tb Finely chopped pistachios
- (blanched)
IN A MEDIUM-SIZE, NON-REACTIVE saucepan, combine the 1 1/2 cups
sugar, the split vanilla bean, lemon zest, lemon juice and 4 cups
water. Bring to a boil, reduce to a simmer and cook, stirring, until
the sugar is dissolved and the syrup is clear. Peel the pears, cut in
half lengthwise, seed, core and stem. Shape 1/2 of 1 pear into a
peach-like round by cutting off the stem end. Poach the pear halves
in the sugar syrup until tender. Drain on a rack. Preheat oven to
350F. On a baking sheet, toast the almonds to golden brown, cool and
pulverize in a food processor. Heat the milk with the remaining
2-inch piece of vanilla bean. Meanwhile, beat the eggs, yolks and 3/4
cup sugar until thick and lemon colored, then add the flour. When the
flour is absorbed, add the milk, return to the heat, stirring, and
cook 3-5 minutes, or until nicely thickened. Pour pastry cream into a
bowl and stir in the 6 tablespoons of butter. Add the almond powder,
macaroons, and 1/2 cup kirsch. Allow to cool to room temperature,
stirring occasionally; cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate to
chill. Heat the apricot jam, then rub through a fine sieve and add
the 1/4 cup kirsch. Heat again and stir constantly until clear.
Spread a thin layer of apricot glaze on bottom of the baked and
cooled pastry shell. Spoon in the frangipane (almond pastry cream)
and smooth it out. Set the pear round in the center and arrange
around it the pear halves, stem end facing center. Press pears gently
into the frangipane. Brush the apricot glaze over the pears; mix the
pistachios and sprinkle over the pears. Refrigerate until 15 minutes
before serving. (Can be made 1 day in advance.)

