Title: PECAN BUTTER CRUNCH - (HEATH BAR)
Categories: Candies
Yield: 1 Servings
3 c  Pecans; finely chopped
-3/4 lb
1/2 lb Butter; unsalted, grade AA
-Land 'O Lakes
1 c  Granlated sugar
1/4 c  Water
1 tb Light corn syrup
Salt; pinch
10 oz Milk chocolate bars
8 oz Bakers German's Dark Sweet
-chocolate
Preheat oven to 300ø. This recipe requires a candy thermometer.
Although somewhat expensive to make, butter crunch goes far, and can
be used for a large number of gifts. It keeps and travels well, and
can be made up to two months in advance. Line large pan (such as 15 x
10 x 1 1/2-inch jelly roll pan) with aluminum Foil. Set aside. Divide
pecans between two small baking pans (such as 9-inch cake pans),
evenly spreading 1 1/2 cups in each. Bake until golden (about 15
minutes). Turn off oven, but leave pans inside to keep nuts warm. Put
butter in heavy 2-quart saucepan. Cook over low heat until melted.
Stir in sugar, water, and corn syrup. Increase flame to medium-high.
Cook, stirring constantly with wooden spoon, until sugar has
dissolved and mixture comes to a boil (4 - 5 minutes). Insert candy
thermometer. Continue boiling at moderate,s teady rate, stirring
almost constantly, until thermometer reaches 300 degrees F. (hard
crack stage). (Total cooking time will be approximately 20 minutes.)
IMMEDIATELY turn off flame under pot. QUICKLY stir in salt and 1 1/2
cups (contents of one pan) pecans. Pour into foil-lined pan, using
wooden spoon to spread mixture to edges. In top of double boiler
(over simmering water), melt chocolate. Turn off flame. Quickly
spread one-half of the melted chocolate over the cooled toffee.
Evenly sprinkle with one-half of the remaining pecans. Pat down with
spatula. Cover pan with waxed paper. Top with inverted cookie sheet.
Carefully invert. Peel off foil. Spread toffee with remaining melted
chocolate. Sprinkle with remaining nuts. Pat down with spatula.
Refrigerate until firm. Break into bite-sized pieces. Store in
airtight container. (It will remain fresh for at least two months.)

