Title: PEKING STYLE NOODLES WITH BEAN SAUCE & MIXE
Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian, Chinese
Yield: 2 Servings
8 oz Noodles
-- (3-4 cups after cooking)
6 oz Plain pressed tofu
1/2 c  Green soybeans
-- (frozen or fresh)  -OR-
2 oz -Baby corn spears
1/2 c  Bamboo shoot, diced finely
2 oz Cucumber
1 ts Garlic, minced
3 tb Chinese bean sauce; -OR-
4 tb -Dark miso
3 tb Vegetable oil
1 1/2 c  Water
1 1/2 tb Soy sauce
1/2 ts Sugar
2 1/2 tb Cornstarch; dissolved in...
3 tb Water
1/2 ts Sesame oil
If you are cooking the noodles first, drain them, remove to a bowl or
serving platter, and toss with 1/2 tablespoon sesame oil to prevent
sticking (do not rinse in cold water as this reduces flavor). Crumble
the pressed tofu coarsely to yield 1-1/2 cups. Parboil green soybeans
till almost tender yet still firm (10 minutes for frozen). If using
fresh baby corn spears, steam or parboil till tender; if canned,
rinse with boiling water.  Rinse green soybeans or corn in cold water
and chop finely. You should have about 1/2 cup baby corn. It is not
necessary to peel or seed the hothouse (English) or Oriental
cucumber. Regular cucumber should be pared and seeded, but leave a
few narrow strips of skin for color and texture.  Julienne finely to
yield 1/2 cup. If you are using miso, dissolve it in 1/4 cup warm
water. Put 3 tablespoons oil into a preheated pan over high.  When
the oil is hot, reduce heat to medium-high. Add garlic and stir-fry a
few seconds to release aroma. Add pressed tofu and bean sauce or
miso. Stir-fry briefly to mix.  Add 1-1/2 cups water, 1 tablepsoon
soy sauce, and 1/2 teaspoon sugar.  Cook, stirring occasionally,
until the boil is reached. Gradually stir in cornstarch mixture and
cook, stirring, another minute or so until the consistency is like a
light gravy, not too thick.  Test for salt, and add an extra
tablespoon soy sauce if needed. (at this point, if you like, you can
heat noodles and/or green soybeans, baby corn, and bamboo shoot by
combining with the sauce until just mixed.) Add 1/2 teaspoon sesame
oil. Remove from the stove. Pour sauce over noodles, and top with
garnish in separate arrangement (garnish with just the cucumber if
you have added soybeans or baby corn and bamboo shoot to the sauce).
Toss before serving.

