Title: PEPPERCORN INFORMATION I/III
Categories: Seasonings, Info
Yield: 1 Info below
1    Info below
- Basic and Historical Information -

"Pepper is arguably the most popular seasoning in the world. It has
been an important and precious commodity throughout history, not only
flavoring food, but also serving as currency - or being demanded as
ransom - in both the East and the West.  The ancient Greeks and
Romans cooked with it; peppercorns were so esteemed in
twelfth-century England that a Guild of Pepperers was founded among
London merchants; and Marco Polo was impressed by the large quantity
of pepper used in thirteenth-century China.

"Peppercorns are the fruits of a perennial vine, Piper nigrum, which
is native to India and is now grown commercially in eastern Asia,
Borneo, Brazil, Cambodia, India, Indonesia, Malaysia, and the West
Indies. In the wild, vines may reach 20 feet long, but in commercial
cultivation they are trained on posts 5 or 6 feet tall to simplify
harvesting. The plants are grown for three or four years before they
are harvested; once they are established, the vines continue to bear
fruits for 15 to 20 years. The berries, which are borne in spikes,
turn from green to orange and then red as they mature.  To keep them
from dropping, they are harvested before they ripen fully.

"Black, green, and white peppercorns come from the same plant; the
differences are in the maturity of the berries at the time of harvest
as well as the technique of processing. All contain various oils and
resins and the alkaloid piperine, which gives them their pungency."

"BLACK PEPPERCORNS are harvested in the unripe, green state and left
to dry for seven to ten days.  As they dry, they shrivel and turn
dark brown or black.  Black peppercorns are quite hard and have the
strongest flavor of the three types of P. nigrum berries. Freshly
ground black pepper is highly pungent and aromatic, and can be
bitingly hot.

"GREEN PEPPERCORNS, as their name suggests, are also picked when
green, but they are preserved immediately; if they are not, they
begin to darken toward the black pepper stage. For years, green
peppercorns were commonly preserved in brine; today, they are usually
freeze-dried. Although they have a certain tanginess, green
peppercorns are less pungent than black or white ones, and they are
usually not as hard and are therefore easier to crack or grind.

"WHITE PEPPERCORNS are prepared from berries that have been allowed to
ripen almost completely on the vines. The harvested berries are
soaked in water for a day, after which the outer shell is easily
removed, leaving a small gray seed which dries to tannish white.
White pepper has a hint of mustiness and is milder in flavor than
black pepper, although still quite pungent."

From Susan Belsinger and Carolyn Dille's "Peppercorns Around the
World" article in "The Herb Companion." Dec. 1992/Jan. 1993, Vol. 5,
No. 2. Pg. 42.  Posted by Cathy Harned.

