Title: PEPPERED CHANNA DIP (THECHA)
Categories: Indian, Appetizers
Yield: 1 Servings
Stephen Ceideburg
1    Recipe channa
1 md Shallot, peeled and minced
1/2 c  Pickled hot pepper rings,
-drained and finely chopped
1/4 ts Garlic salt
2 tb Dry white wine (optional)
Iceberg lettuce leaves, washed and crisped Parsley sprigs

If you are tired of serving the same old cheese ball for company
gatherings, maybe it's time to add some sparkle to your appetizer
repertoire. Serve this zesty dip with crackers, chips or crudites.

Beat channa, minced shallot, hot peppers, garlic salt and wine (if
using) in a medium-size bowl until well mixed. If made ahead, cover
and refrigerate. May be made 1 day in advance.

To serve, mound on a plate lined with lettuce leaves. Garnish with
parsley sprigs.

Makes 1 1/2 cups.

PER 1/4 CUP: 135 calories, 9 g protein, 29 carbohydrate, 10 g fat (6 g
saturated), cholesterol (not available), 152 mg sodium, 0 g fiber.

From an article by Laxmi Hiremath in the San Francisco Chronicle,
9/1/93.

Other Cooking Methods

Freshly made paneer is delicious and may be eaten immediately, without
further preparation or adornment. However, in most recipes, paneer
must be cooked before it is added to the other ingredients. Broiling,
which is discussed in the story, is the method I prefer because very
little oil is used. If you don't wish to broil the cheese, here are a
few alternatives:

Toaster Oven: Grease a small baking tray with vegetable oil. Place
paneer cubes on the tray and brush with oil. Bake at 400 degrees F.
until golden brown, about 6 to 8 minutes. Remove and use in any
cooked paneer recipe.

For a quick paneer curry, place cooked cheese cubes on a heated
serving platter and pour your favorite curry sauce over them. Garnish
with minced cilantro and serve.

Barbecue Grill: Prepare a charcoal fire to the gray-ash stage. Gently
blow away the ash, leaving coals that glow cherry red. Cut paneer
into 2-inch cubes. Brush skewers and paneer cubes with vegetable oil.
Thread evenly on skewers leaving 1/2-inch space any cooked paneer
recipe.

For, an exotic appetizer, sprinkle grilled paneer cubes with. lemon
juice and ground cumin. Place on a warmed platter and served
immediately.

Saute; Heat 3 tablespoons oil in a heavy nonstick pan or wok over
medium-high heat. When oil is hot, add paneer cubes and saute until
light brown, turning once. Carefully transfer to paper towels to
drain. Tent with foil to keep warm until ready to use. Use in any
recipe calling for cooked paneer.

Note: A nonstick pan is essential; the paneer will break and crumble
in any other pan.

Deep Fry: Heat 6 tablespoons of vegetable or canola oil to 350
degrees F. in a nonstick wok until hot but not smoking. Gently add
Paneer cubes. Do not crowd. Fry, turning occasionally, until golden
brown, about 5 minutes. Remove with slotted spoon and drain on paper
towels. Tent with foil to keep warm until ready to use. Use in any
recipe calling for cooked paneer.

From an article by Laxmi Hiremath in the San Francisco Chronicle,
9/1/93.

