Title: PEPPER-STUFFED LAMB WITH GARLIC CHEVRE SAUCE
Categories: Lamb, Sauces
Yield: 8 Servings
2    Red Or Green Bell Peppers
6 lb Leg Of Lamb, Boned And
- Butterflied
Salt And Freshly Ground
- Black Pepper To Taste
3/4 c  Sun Dried Tomatoes In Oil,
- Drained (About 4-1/2 Oz.)
3/4 c  Olive Oil
2 tb Minced Fresh Rosemary Leaves
2 tb Minced Fresh Thyme Leaves
3    Cloves Garlic, Minced
1 ts Tabasco Pepper Sauce
GARLIC CHEVRE SAUCE
4 oz Chevre (Goat Cheese)
3    Cloves Garlic, Minced
1/2 c  Light Cream Or Half-and-Half
1/4 ts Tabasco Pepper Sauce
1    Sprig Rosemary
This is exceptional dinner party fare, impressive-looking and superb
tasting, flavored with herbs, sun-dried tomatoes, Tabasco sauce,
garlic and chevre. To Roast the peppers: Preheat the broiler. Slice
the peppers in half lengthwise, and core and seed. Lay the pieces
skin side up in a shallow broiling pan and set the pan 3 inches below
the heat. Broil the peppers until the skin blisters and turns black.
Remove the peppers to a plastic bag and close it; let them steam for
15 minutes. When they are cool enough to handle, peel off the skin.

Place the lamb skin side down on a cutting board or other surface and
pat it dry.  Sprinkle the meat with salt and pepper. Arrange the
tomatoes and roasted peppers down the center of the lamb, then roll
up the lamb, secure it with twine, and set it in a roasting pan. In a
bowl, whisk the oil, herbs, garlic, and Tabasco sauce. Pour the
mixture over the lamb, turning once to coat.  Cover and refrigerate
for 24 hours, turning once or twice.

Preheat oven to 450 degrees F.  Place the uncovered roast in the oven
and immediately reduce the heat to 325 degrees F. Cook the lamb for
20 minutes per pound, about 2 hours, or until a meat thermometer
registers 125 degrees F. for rare or 140 degrees F. for medium. Let
the lamb stand for 15 minutes before slicing. Meanwhile, in a small
saucepan over low heat, whisk together the chevre, garlic, cream, and
Tabasco sauce until the mixture is well blended and heated
thoroughly. Garnish with rosemary and serve with the lamb.

From: The Tabasco Cookbook.

