Title: PESACH HAZELNUT-CHOCOLATE VIENNESE TORTE)
Categories: Chocolate, Tortes
Yield: 8 Servings
6 lg Eggs -- 5 of them separated
pn Salt
2 ts Lemon juice
3/4 c  Sugar -- divided
2 ts Lemon rind -- grated
3 oz Semisweet Chocolate -- very
Finely grated
2 1/2 c  Unblanched nuts -- very
Finely ground (
For Torte:
1/4 c  Sweet Pesach wine
1/2 c  Apricot jam
Chocolate Glaze:
1/3 c  Water
3 tb Vegetable oil
1 c  Sugar
1/2 c  Cocoa
Garnish: (optional)
1 c  Nuts -- ground
12    Hazelnuts
1 oz Chocolate -- for curls
Grease a 9 inch springform pan well and coat it with potato starch or
sugar, tapping out excess.

For the batter, in a large mixing bowl, beat the 5 egg whites with
the salt and lemon juice until foamy. Very gradually add 1/4 cup
sugar and continue beating the whites until they form stiff, but not
dry, peaks.

Use the same beaters and another bowl to beat the 5 egg yolks and
additional egg with the remaining 1/2 cup sugar and lemon rind until
very light and fluffy.  Gently but thouroughly fold the beaten whites
into yolks.  Fold in chocolate and nuts, and pour batter into pan.

Bake torte in a preheated 325 degree oven for 50-55 minutes or until
top springs back when gently pressed.

[this will not rise as much as you think it ought. Don't worry about
it]

Leave the torte in the oven, turn off the heat, and open the door
slightly. After 10 minutes remove torte from oven. Run a knife around
the edge of the torte to release it from the pan rim.  Cool it for
another 30 minutes in the pan. Remove the pan rim and cool the torte
completely on the bottom.

[This next part is for icing the Torte.  What I've done in the past
is make 2 layers, following the above directions, doubled the amount
of raspberry syrup and dribbled half over each torte as per the
directions and skipped the jam. I've then used the chocolate glaze as
an icing for between the layers, and the "Instant" Chocolate Mousse
recipe for the outside icing of the whole thing.  ]

Cover a 9 or 10 inch cardboard circle with heavy duty aluminum foil or
freezer paper or use a cake plate. Invert torte onto base and remove
pan bottom. Sprinkle wine [or whatever] evenly over torte. Heat jam
until thinned; then bruch or spread it all over the torte. (this adds
flavor and smooths the surface).

For the glaze, combine the water, oil, sugar, and cocoa in a small
suacepan and mix very well.  Cook the mixture over low heat, stirring
constantly, for 10-14 minutes, or until the glaze thickens slightly
and is very smooth and shiney.  For the best flavor and texture it
should not boil. Remove glaze from heat and stir 3-4 minutes longer
until it cools slightly and gets a bit thicker. Pour all the glaze in
the center of the torte and immediately use a metal or rubber spatula
to evenly spread it all over top and sides.  Wipe up any drips from
base.

Let torte rest a few minutes until the glaze begins to set, but is
still soft.

Press handfulls of ground nuts all over the sides, but not the top.
Arrange whole nuts, evenly spaced in circle on top about 1 inch from
edge. Heap chocolate curls or bits in center.

Refrigerate the uncovered, completed torte for several hours or,
preferably, overnight so the glaze will set and the flavors and
textures will "mellow".

(Once the glaze has set, the torte can be frozen for up to 3 weeks.
Freeze it uncovered, then wrap it in plastic wrap or tin foil. Unwrap
it before thawing and thaw for several hours in the refrigerator.

: Net
Recipe By

