Title: PETELES
Categories: Hawaii, Meats
Yield: 9999 ??????????
2 lb Pork butt
1/2 bn Green onions; chopped
1 bn Cilantro; chopped fine
3 ea Stalks celery; chopped fine
-with leaves
6 ea Cloves garlic; diced
1/2 ts Grated ginger
1 ts Oregano
Salt to taste
16 oz Tomato sauce
1 c  Salad oil
1/4 c  Achote (lipstick plant)
MMMMM-----------------------BANANA MIXTURE----------------------------
15 ea Green bananas
2 ea Medium sized potatoes
Salt to taste
Achote oil
1 cn Ripe olives
Chili pepper (optional)
Remove achote seeds from pot. Fry in hot oil unti oil turns yellow.
Strain and remove seeds. Use half of this oil for pork.

Take banana or ti leaves and drop into a pot of hot water about 5
minutes to soften leaves making it pliable. Wipe leaves.

Soak unpeeled bananas in hot water for 1/2 hur. Cut off 2 ends and
slice in the center and remove peel. Prepare two quarts water in a
bowl with 1 tablespoon salt. Peel bananas, drop into water while
peeling the rest of the bananas. Grate the bananas fine by hand. Peel
potaotes and grate fine. Add to banana. Add remaining oil, salt to
taste and some of the oil from the pork. Stir unti blended.

Dice pork thin. Add 1/2 cup achote oil and stir fry pork. Add green
onions, cilantro, celery, garlic, ginger, oregano, salt and tomato
sauce. Simmer until pork is tender; about 1 hour.

Lay leaf flat; with a spoon, smear leaf with oil from the pork
mixture. Now, take 2 tablespoon banana mixture and place on oiled
leaf. Flatten to about 6 inches by 3 inches. Take 2 tablespoons pork
mixture and lay it on top of the banana mixture down the middle
lengthwise. Add 1 olive in the center and sprinkle with chili pepper
if you want a spicy hot patele. Fold ends of leaf lengthwise toward
mixture. Fold top and bottom ends of leaf overlapping each other if
you need to, and secure with string.

Arrange pateles on top of each other in a pot. Cover with salted hot
water and bring to a boil. Lower heat and simmer for 1 hour making
sure that pateles are always covered with water while cooking. Miriam
Kala'i Kula '53 From: Kamehameha Alumni Association Cookbook
Formatted by: Dorie Villarreal

