Title: PETE'S UNUSUAL BLACK BEAN CHILI
Categories: Main dish
Yield: 8 Servings
2 c  Black Beans, dried
1 ea Green Pepper, chopped
2 tb Olive Oil
2 tb Ground Cumin
1/3 ts Ground Cinnamon
4 ea Garlic Cloves, minced
1 ts Fresh Ginger, grated
1 tb "Squeet" Smoke Flavoring
16 oz Can, Crushed Tomatoes
1 x  Cayenne Pepper, to taste
1 1/2 lb Lean Ground Chuck
2 ea Medium Onions, chopped
4 tb Paprika
1/4 ts Ground Nutmeg
1 ts Oregano
3 tb Molasses
2 tb Cocoa Powder
8 oz Can, Tomato Sauce
1 cn Tomato Paste, small
1 x  Chicken Stock
In a fairly large pot, brown the ground chuck, draining off any fat
when finished browning. Simultaneously, saute the chopped onions,
garlic and green pepper in the oil in a separate pan -- I find if you
try to saute them with the beef, they give up too much moisture to
it, and it really doesn't brown enough -- it just "grays" . Add the
sauted onion, garlic, and green pepper to the browned meat, along
with all the other ingredients. Dilute it to the desired thickness
with the chicken stock -- or some beer. Simmer for an hour or two,
covered. You may want to uncover for the last half-hour or so if you
think it has thinned out more than you expected -- sometimes the
tomatoes release juice as they cook. Particularly good with corn
bread. And even better the next day.



BLACK BEANS THE EASY WAY

My chili recipe calls for the end result of starting with 2 cups of
dried black beans, and preparing them as you will. There are plenty
of cookbooks full of instructions for soaking overnight, etc., but I
do it the easy way.

My way is to pressure cook them, which only takes 45 minutes after the
steam release hisses the first time. Just rinse two cups of dried
black beans well, and put them in the pressure cooker with at least 4
cups of water. Seal it, heat until the steam release hisses the first
time: then, turn down the heat to medium-low, and start your timer
for 45 minutes. Steam release should hiss every few minutes or so.
When they're finished cooking, drain them, and they're ready for the
chili pot.Copyright 1992 by Peter A. Vogt

