Title: PETE'S WHITE PIZZA
Categories: Vegetarian, Pizza
For Toppings:
Yield: 4 Servings  :
1 c  sun-dried tomatoes
1/4 c  red wine
3 TB balsamic vinegar
3 TB olive oil
1    head garlic
3/4 c  pine nuts -- toasted
1/2 lb Fontina cheese -- sliced
For Dough:
:
1/2 ts sugar
1 pk yeast
1/3 c  yellow cornmeal
1/2 ts salt
2 c  all-purpose flour
1 c  warm water (110-115 F)
1 1/2 TB olive oil
For Pesto:
:
2 c  firmly packed chopped fresh
basil leaves
:
1/4 c  pine nuts
1/2 c  grated Parmesan cheese
3    cloves garlic -- chopped
1 ts salt
3/4 c  olive oil

Prepare Toppings: Put the sun-dried tomatoes in a small bowl and
cover with hot tap water. Let soak, stirring occasionally, for 30
minutes. Drain and pat dry. Put back in the bowl and add the red
wine, balsamic vinegar, and olive oil and let sit, stirring
occasionally, at least 1 hour.

Wrap the head of garlic in aluminum foil and roast in oven at 400F for
about 30 minutes. Leave garlic in foil and refrigerate until cool,
about 30 minutes. When cool, carefully peel cloves and slice into
halves or thirds, and set aside.

Make dough: In a stand mixer fitted with a dough hook, combine the
sugar, yeast, cornmeal, salt, and 1 cup of the flour, and mix for 15
seconds on a medium-low speed. While dry ingredients are mixing,
combine water and oil. While motor continues to run, slowly add
liquid ingredients in a steady stream. Then add remaining 2/3 cup
flour in 1/3-cup incremenmts, and mix until stiff dough forms and
pulls away from sides of bowl. Knead for 2 minutes more. Put dough in
a deep and cover with plastic wrap. Let dough rise in a warm place 1
hour, or until doubled in bulk.

While dough is rising, make the pesto: Put garlic, Parmesan cheese,
salt, and pine nuts in a food processor or blender and process until
coarsely chopped and well mixed. Add basil and 2 or 3 tablespoons of
the oilve oil and pulse until a thick paste forms. Add half of the
remaining oil and process for about 10 seconds until all basil is
chopped fine but not pureed. Transfer pesto to a bowl and stir in the
remaining olive oil.

Assembly: Preheat oven and baking stone to 450F. When the dough is
ready, punch it down and roll it out on a lightly floured surface to
a thin disk about 16-18 inches in diameter. Fold the outer edge in
about 1/2 an inch and pinch down to seal. Spread pesto evenly over
crust. Space sun-dried tomatoes evenly across the crust, skin side
up. Sprinkle pine nuts and roasted garlic slices evenly over pizza,
then top with Fontina slices, spaced evenly. Sprinkle a little
cornmeal on the baking stone. Carefully transfer the pizza to the
baking stone and reduce heat to 400F. Bake until the crust is golden
and the cheese is brown and bubbly, about 20 minutes. Let cool for a
few minutes before slicing. Serves 4 as an entree.

: Pete
Recipe By

Date: 09/26/96

