Title: PHO BAC (HANOI BEEF & RICE-NOODLE SOUP)
Categories: Soups, Viet
Yield: 4 Servings
5 lb Beef bones with marrow
5 lb Oxtails
2 lb Short rib plate
2 lg Onion; halved
3    Shallot; unpeeled
2 oz Ginger, fresh; unpeeled, in
8    Star anise
1    Cinnamon stick
4 md Parsnip; cut into 2" pieces
2 ts Salt
1 lb Beef sirloin
2    Scallion; thinly sliced
1 tb Coriander; shredded
2 md Onion; sliced paper-thin
1/4 c  Hot chili sauce (tuong ot)
-or nuoc cham)
1 lb Dried rice stick, 1/4" wide
1/2 c  Nuoc mam (Vietnamese fish sa
Pepper, black
MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
2 c  Fresh bean sprouts
2    Fresh red chile peppers;
-sliced
2    Lime; cut into wedges
2 tb Olive oil
2 lg Garlic clove; flattened
*Leave onion unpeeled, and stud with eight whole cloves.

In order to cut the beef into paper-thin slices, freeze the
pieces of meat for 30 minutes before slicing.

The night before, clean the bones under cold running water and
soak overnight in a pot with water to cover at room temperature.
(This will help loosen the impurities inside the bones. When heat is
applied, these impurities are released and come to the top much
faster and can be removed, therefore, producing a clear broth.)

Place the beef bones, oxtails and short rib plate in a large
stockpot. Add water to cover and bring to a boil. Cook for 10
minutes. Drain. Rinse the pot and the bones.

Return the bones to the pot and add 6 quarts of water. Bring to a
boil. Skim the surface to remove the foam and fat. Stir the bones in
the bottom of the pot from time to time to free the impurities.
Continue skimming until the foam ceases to rise. Add 3 quarts more
water and bring to a boil. Skim off all the residue that forms on the
top. Turn the heat to low and simmer.

Meanwhile, char the clove-studded onions, shallots and ginger
directly over a gas burner or under the broiler until they release
their fragrant odors. Tie the charred vegetables, star anise and
cinnamon stick in a double thickness of dampened cheesecloth. Add the
spice bag, parsnips and salt to the simmer-ing broth. Simmer for 1
hour.

Remove the short rib plates. Pull the meat away from the bones.
Reserve the meat and return the bones to the pot. Simmer the broth,
uncovered, for 4 to 5 hours. Keep an eye on it; as the liquid boils
away, add enough fresh water to cover the bones.

Meanwhile, slice the beef sirloin against the grain into
paper-thin slices, roughly 2 by 2 inches in size. Slice the reserved
short rib meat paper-thin. Set aside.

In a small bowl, combine the scallions, coriander and half of the
slice onions. Place the remaining sliced onions in a small bowl and
stir in the hot chili sauce. Blend well.

Soak the rice sticks in warm water for 30 minutes. Drain and set
aside.

When the broth is ready, remove and discard all of the bones.
Strain the broth through a strainer or colander lined with a double
layer of dampened cheesecloth into a clean pot. Add the fish sauce
and bring the broth to a boil. Reduce the heat and keep the broth at
a bare simmer.

In another pot, bring 4 quarts of water to a boil. Drain the
noodles, then drop them in the boiling water. Drain immediately.
Divide the noodles among 4 large soup bowls. Top the noodles with the
sliced meats. bring the broth to a rolling boil. Ladle the broth
directly over the meat in each bowl (the boiling broth will cook the
raw beef instantly). Garnish with the scallion mixture and freshly
ground black pepper.

Serve the onions in hot chili sauce and the accompaniments on the
side. Each diner will add these ingredients as desired.

The Foods of Vietnam
Nicole Rauthier
per Stephen Ceideburg Submitted
By SAM WARING <SAM.WARING@382-91-12.IMA.INFOMAIL.COM> On MON, 06 NOV
1995 105605 GMT

