Title: PICADILLO & SWEET POTATO SHEPHERD'S PIE=7F
Categories: New, Text, Import
For the filling:
Yield: 4 Servings  :
1 c  finely chopped onion
2 ts minced garlic
2 lg pickled jalapeno peppers, --
seeded and minced
:
2 ts ground cumin
1 TB chili powder
2 ts dried oregano, -- crumbled
2 TB vegetable oil
1 1/2 lb ground chuck
1/4 c  tomato paste
28 oz can plum tomatoes including
the juice, -- chopped
:
1/4 c  raisins
3/4 c  chopped pimiento-stuffed
green olives
:
1 c  fresh or frozen corn
1/4 c  finely chopped fresh
coriander if desired
Salt and pepper
For the topping:
:
:
:
2 lb sweet potatoes
1 lb russet (baking) potatoes
3 TB unsalted butter, plus 1
tablespoon
:

Make the filling: In a large heavy skillet cook the onion, garlic,
jalapeno peppers, cumin, chili powder, and oregano in the oil over
moderately high heat, stirring until the onion is soft. Add the chuck
and cook it over moderately high heat, stirring and breaking up any
lumps, until it is no longer pink. Add the tomato paste, the tomatoes
with the juice, the raisins, olives, corn, coriander, salt and black
pepper to taste. Simmer the mixture, stirring occasionally, for 10 to
15 minutes, or until it is thickened. The filling may be made up to 1
day in advance, kept covered and chilled, and brought to room
temperature before proceeding.

Make the topping: In a large saucepan combine the sweet and russet
potatoes, peeled and cut into 1-inch pieces, with enough cold water to
cover them by 1 inch. Bring the water to a boil and simmer the
potatoes for 10 to 15 minutes, or until they are tender. Drain the
potatoes, return them to the pan, and cook them over moderate heat,
shaking the pan, for 30 seconds to evaporate any excess liquid. Force
the potatoes through a ricer or the medium disk of a food mill into a
bowl. Add the butter and salt and pepper to taste, and stir the
mixture until it is combined well and the butter is melted.

Transfer the filling to a 3-quart baking dish at least 2 1/2 inches
deep, spoon the topping over it, spreading it to cover the filling
completely, and dot the top with the butter, cut into bits. Bake the
pie in the middle of a preheated 400 degree F oven for 35 to 40
minutes, or until it is browned lightly.

Yield: 6 servings

:COOKING LIVE SHOW #CL8720
Recipe By

From: Meg Antczak <meginny@frontiernet.

