Title: PICKLED BANANA PEPPERS WITH OKRA - MARTHA STE
Categories: Pantry, Soup/stews, Pickles
Yield: 8 Pints
1/2 lb Okra
2 lb Sweet banana peppers
-(about 7)
1 lb Yellow peppers (about 2
-large)
1 lb Red peppers (about 2 large)
5 c  White vinegar
8 tb Kosher salt
16    Cloves garlic, peeled
1    Bunch dill (about 24 sprigs)
1/4 c  Yellow mustard seeds
1. Rinse okra and peppers and cut away any bruises or bad spots. Trim
stem ends of okra but do not remove caps entirely. Remove stems,
ribs, and seeds from peppers. Cut banana peppers lengthwise into
quarters; cut red and yellow peppers lengthwise into eighths.

2. Wash 8 one-pint canning jars, lids, and screw bands with hot, soapy
water and rinse well. Place a wire rack on the bottom of a large pot.
Place jars uptight on the rack, fill pot with hot water until jars
are submerged by 1 to 2 inches, and bring to a boil. Boil for 15
minutes. Turn off heat; leave jars in water. Sterilize lids according
to manufacturer's instructions.

3. Meanwhile, bring the vinegar, 3 C water, and the salt to a boil in
a large pot

4. Using stainless-steel tongs, remove jars from water and set on a
layer of clean towels.. Evenly divide garlic, pepers, dill sprigs,
and mustard seeds among jars. Pack jars tightly with okra and
peppers, leaving 1/4 inch of space beneath the rim. Pour hot liquid
over okra and peppers, covering them by 1/4 inch and leaving 1/2 inch
of space beneath the rim. Slide a clean plastic chopstick or wooden
skewer along the inside of each jar to release any air bubbles. Wipe
mouth of jar with a clean, damp cloth. Place hot lid on jar; screw on
band firmly without forcing.

5. Place a wire rack in the bottom of a large pot and fill partway
with hot water. Using a jar lifter, place the jars on the rack. Add
enough hot water to cover by 2 inches, and bring to a boil. Boil for
10 minutes. Remove jars from water bath; let stand on clean dish
towels for 24 hours. Check cool jars for the slight indentation in
the lids that indicates a vacuum seal. Jars that do not seal properly
or that leak during processing should be stored in the refrigerator
and pickles consumed within a week. Allow sealed pickles to mellow in
a cool, dry place for 6 to 8 weeks before serving. Store opened jars
in the refrigerator.

Martha Stewart Living/October/94 Scanned & edited by Di Pahl & <gg>

