Title: PICKLED OKRA - MARTHA STEWART LIVING
Categories: Pantry, Soup/stews, Pickles
Yield: 8 Pints
2 lb Tender okra
1 qt White vinegar
6 tb Kosher salt
16 sm Cloves garlic, peeled
8 sm Fresh hot red peppers, such
-as New Mexican chile or
-Mirasol
1    Bunch fresh dill (about 24
-sprigs)
1/2 c  Yellow mustard seeds
1. Rinse okra and cut away any bruises or bad spots. Trim stem ends
of okra but do not remove caps entirely.

2. Wash 8 one-pint canning jars, lids, and screw bands with hot, soapy
water and rinse well. Place jars upright on a wire rack in the bottom
of a large pot. Fill pot with hot water until jars are submerged by 1
to 2 inches, and bring to a boil. Boil for 15 minutes. Turn off heat,
leaving jars in water. Sterilize lids according to manufacturer's
instructions.

3. Meanwhile, bring the vinegar, 3 C water, and the salt to a boil in
a large pot.

4. Using stainless-steel tongs, remove jars from water and set on a
layer of clean towels. Evenly divide garlic, peppers, dill sprigs,
and mustard seeds among jars. Pack tightly with okra, alternating
direction of caps. Leave 3/4 inch of space beneath the rim of the
jar. Pour hot liquid over okra, covering it by 1/4 inch and leaving
1/2 inch of space beneath the rim. Slide a clean plastic chopstick or
wooden skewer along the inside of each jar to release any air
bubbles. Wipe mouth of jar with a clean, damp cloth. Place hot lid on
jar; turn screw band firmly without forcing.

5. Place a wire rack in the bottom of a large pot and fill partway
with hot water. Using a jar lifter, place the jars on the rack. Add
enough hot water to cover by 2 inches, and bring to a boil. Boil for
10 minutes. Remove jars from water bath; let stand on clean dish
towels for 24 hours. Check cool jars for the slight indentation in
the lids that indicates a vacuum seal. Jars that do not seal properlY
or that leak during processing should be stored in the refrigerator
and the pickles consumed within a week. Allow sealed pickles to
mellow in a cool dry place for 6 to 8 weeks before serving. Store
opened jars in the refrigerator.

Martha Stewart Living/October/94 Scanned & edited by Di Pahl & <gg>

