Title: PIKE IN GALENTYNE
Categories: Seafood, Main dish, Medieval
Yield: 6 Servings
3 lb Middle cut of pike
Or similar large fish
1 1/4 c  White wine
2 tb White wine vinegar
3    Parsley stalks
Salt
3    Slices brown bread
Crusts removed
1/4 ts Ground cinnamon
1/8 ts Ground white pepper
4 oz Onions, peeled and chopped
Oil for frying
Gelatine (optional)
Put the fish in a pan, add the wine, vinegar, parsley stalks and
enough salted water to cover the fish and poach gently for 15
minutes. Turn off the heat; if necessary, the fish will finish
cooking in the liquid as it cools.  Cover the pan and cool to tepid
before finishing the dish.

Carefully lift the fish out of the pan.  Reserve the cooking liquid.
Put the bread in a bowl and add enough of the liquid to cover it.

Skin the fish and take out the spine and other bones; pike has a line
of thin bones through the middle of the body flesh on each side. Cut
all the flesh into small pieces both to get at them and to make a
manageable dish.

Strain the remaining cooking liquid into a clean pan. Put 425 ml/15
fl oz/2 cups of it into an electric blender with the soaked bread,
cinnamon and pepper; process until smooth. Return the mixture to the
liquid in the pan. Fry the onions in a little oil until soft, and add
them to the liquid too. Taste for seasoning, add the pieces of fish
and re-heat gently to serve.

If you want a cold dish, keep the fish pieces and fried onions aside
while you measure and taste the liquid, then re-heat it with enough
gelatine to stiffen it; if you had cooked a whole fish, it would have
jellied without help.  Add the fish pieces and onions, turn into a
mould and leave to set in the refrigerator. Auter pike in Galentyne.
Take browne brede, and stepe it in a quarte of vinegre, and a pece of
wyne for a pike, and quarteren of pouder canell, and drawe it thorgh
a streynour skilfully thik, and cast it in a potte, and lete boyle;
and cast there-to pouder peper, or ginger, or of clowes, and lete
kele. And then take a pike, and seth him in good sauce, and take him
vp, and lete him kele a litul; and ley him in a boll for to cary him
yn; and cast the sauce vnder him and aboue him, that he be al y-hidde
in the sauce; and cary him whether euer thou wolt.

