Title: PIZZA HUT CRUST
Categories: Pork, Bar-b-q
Yield: 2 15" crusts
2 pk Dry yeast
2/3 c  Water (warm)
2 ts Sugar
2 c  Water (cold)
3 tb Corn oil
2 tb Sugar
1/4 ts Garlic salt
1 ts Salt
1/2 ts Dry oregono leaves
6 1/2 c  All-purpose flour
Sprinkle yeast over warm water and stir in the sugar. Let stand about
5 minutes or until very bubbly.  Combine the remaining ingredients
with about half of the flour, beating to a smooth batter. Beat in the
yeast mixture and then with a sturdy spoon work in remaining flour
until you can toss it lightly on a floured surface and knead it until
it feels elastic in texture. The kneading may require abaout 2/3 cup
additional flour, that you will be coating your hand with as you
knead the dough. Don't let the dough become too stiff and yet you
don't want it to stick to your hands. Place it in a large plastic
food bag, which you can spray inside with Pam or wipe the inside of
it with oil and place the ball of kneaded douogh in this to rise
until doubled in bulk. Be sure the plastic bag is large enough that
it will permit the dough to double without splitting the bag. You can
place the bag of dough on a warm, sunny spot on the table or kitchen
counter which helps it to raise quickly and if it's summertime, place
the bag of dough (with open end sealed tightly with tape) in your car
with the windows up! When dough has doubled, punch it down and shape
it to fit two 15" round pizza pans that have been greased and dusted
in cornmeal. Add the sauce and topping ingredients exactly in the
order listed above, spreading each ingredients evenly over the dough.
Let this rise about 20 minutes in a warm place and then bake at 450~,
about 20 to 25 minutes, putting one pizza at a time on center rack of
the preheated oven. If you don't want a pizza-pizza and you can only
handle one of them, wrap the second pizza in foil or plastic and seal
it with tape to lock out all air. Freeze it before it rises the last
time. After letting it thaw 30 mintes, you can bake as directed above.
Source: Gloria Pitzer's Secret Fast Food Recipes.

