Title: PLAINTAIN EMPANADAS
Categories:
Yield: 1 Servings
1 sm Poblano peppers -- peeled
And seeded
1/4 ts Pepper -- ground black
1 c  Cold refried black beans --
Canned
3    Plantain ripe -- unpeeled
1    Banana ripe -- peeled
1 ts Salt
2    Scallion -- sliced thin
1/4 c  Peanut oil
1 c  Crema recipe follows
1/4 c  Anejo, Romano or Feta Cheese
Grated
1/4 c  Manchego or Feta cheese --
Grated
Creme Fraiche or sour cream
Garnish
Preheat the oven to 350F Cut a lenghthwise slit in each plaintain and
set it on a baking sheet. Bake until the flesh is thoroughly soft and
oozing through the slit, 40 to 50 minutes, set aside to cool.
Meanwhile, make the stuffing: Finely dice the poblano chile. Combine
with beans, scallions, cheeses, and pepper in a mixing bowl and stir
to combine. The stuffing can be made up to a day in advance and
reserved in the refrigerator. Make the dough in a food processor or
in a mixer with a paddle attachment: Peel, trim and discard any tough
ends from the plantains. Combine the plantains, banana and salt and
pulse until a smooth puree is formed, or mix until just blended. Be
careful not to overwork the dough, or it will become too starchy.
Wrap in plastic and chill about 2 hours. To assemble the empanadas,
roll 2 tablespoons of the dough lightly between your palms to form a
ball. Line the bottom of a tortilla press with a small plastic bag
and place the ball of dough in the center. Place another small bag
over the dough and press to form a 3 1/2 inch circle. (If you do not
have a tortilla press, the dough can be flattened with the palm of
your hand on a counter, with a sheet of plastic above and below to
prevent sticking.) Place about 1 teaspoon of the bean stuffing on
half of the dough circle and fold overto enclose, pressing the edges
to seal. Place the stuffed empanadas on a platter and chill at least
30 minutes or as long as a day. (Stuffed empanadas can also be
frozen.) To cook the empanadas, heat the peanut oil in a medium
skillet over medium-high heat. Fry 4 to 6 empanadas, at a time,
shaking the pan constantly, about 1 minute per side or untildark
brown all over. If they darken too quickly, as they may if very ripe
plantains were used,. lower the flame slightly.) Drain on paper
towels. Serve hot with Crema, Creme Fraiche or sour cream for dipping.

: Too Hot Tameles/tpogue@idsonline.com
Recipe By

Date: Fri, 11 Oct 1996 21:48:54
From: Mastercook Mac
~465800

