Title: CHOCOLATE LAYER CAKE WITH DATE FILLING
Categories: Chocolate, Cakes
Yield: 12 Servings
1/4 c  Sugar.
4 oz Unsweetened chocolate : 1
-tbsp. all purp. flour
2 1/2 c  Sifted cake flour : Speck of
-Salt
2 ts Baking powder : 1/2 cup plus
-2 tbsp. chopped black
3/4 ts Salt : walnuts or pecans
1/2 c  (1 stick) butter, softened :
-1 tsp. vanilla extract
2 c  Granulated sugar : FUDGE
-FROSTING
2    Eggs : 1 pound
-confectioners' sar
2 ts Vanilla extract : 1/3 cup
-plus 2 tbsp. cocoa powder
2 c  Buttermilk, at room temp. :
-1/4 cup (1/2 stick) butter,
-softened
: DATE FILLING
-: 1 egg white
1 c  Milk : 1 tsp. vanilla
-extract
1/2 c  Chopped dates : 1/4 tsp.
-salt
1    Egg : 5 tbsp. evaporated
-miÐmlk
Serves 12

"The date filling makes this special, and the frosting is unusually
good. Because the cake has a custard filling, it needs to be kept
refrigerated."

Preheat oven to 350 F.  Melt the chocolate in the top of a double
boiler over barely simmering water (or in the microwave). Sift the
flour, baking powder, and salt together. In a large mixer bowl, cream
the butter and sugar until the mixture is fluffy.  Add the eggs, 1 at
a time, beating well after each addition. Blend in the melted
chocolate and vanilla. Add the dry ingredients to the chocolate
mixture, alternating with the buttermilk and beginning and ending
with the flour. Do not overbeat.

Pour the batter into three 8 inch buttered cake layer pans. Bake for
25 to 30 minutes, or until the cake has shrunk away a bit from the
sides of the pans and the tops spring back when touched with your
finger. Allow to stand in pans for 10 minutes, then turn out onto a
rack to cool. While the cakes are cooling, prepare the filling and
frosting.

To make the filling, heat the milk and dates in the top of a double
boiler over hot water until the milk is scalded. Beat the egg, then
add the sugar, flour, and salt; beat again. Add 1/2 cup of the hot
milk mixture to the egg mixture, then stir back into the pan and cook
for 3 minutes, until thick, stirring with a rubber spatula. Let cool.
Add the nuts, and vanilla. Refrigerate for 1-1/2 hours before filling
the cake.

To make the frosting, combine all the ingredients in a large mixer
bowl. Beat on high speed for 1 minute, or until the frosting is light
and creamy.

To assemble, place 1 cake layer on a large plate and cover to within
1/4 inch of the edge with half the chilled filling. Top with another
cake layer and the remaining filling mixture. Finish with the last
cake layer. Frost the sides and top of the cake with the fudge
frosting forming swirls on the top with a knife. Refrigerate, but
bring to room temperature before serving.

From: Cooking From Quilt Country Shared By: Pat Stockett

