Title: CHOCOLATE MOUSSE & RASPBERRY CREAM DACQUOISE
Categories: Cakes, Chocolate, Mousses
Yield: 18 Servings
Meringues-----
1 c  Hazelnuts -- toasted and
Skinned
2 c  Sugar
1/2 ts Salt
1 c  Egg whites
3 oz Bittersweet chocolate --
Melted
Mousse-----
7 oz Bittersweet chocolate --
Chopped
2 oz Unsweetened chocolate --
Chopped
3 tb Framboise
1/3 c  Coffee -- strong brewed
1 1/4 c  Sugar
4 lg Egg whites
1/4 ts Cream of tartar
Whipped Cream-----
5 ts Gelatin -- unflavored
1/4 c  Framboise
4 c  Heavy cream -- well-chilled
1/4 c  Sugar
1 1/2 ts Vanilla
2 1/2 c  Raspberries -- picked over
Garnish-----
3 oz Unsweetened chocolate --
Melted
1 c  Raspberries
See Chocolate Mousse & Raspberry Cream Dacquoise 1 for first half of
directions.

Mousse:  In a bowl set over barely simmering water melt the
chocolates with the framboise and the coffee, whisking until the
mixture is smooth, and let the mixture cool. In a small heavy
saucepan combine the sugar with 1/2 cup water and bring the mixture
to a boil, stirring until the sugar is dissolved. Boil the syrup,
undisturbed, until it registers 248 F. on a candy thermometer and
remove the pan from the heat. While the syrup is boiling, in the
large bowl of an electric mixer beat the egg whites with a pinch of
salt until they are foamy, add the cream of tartar, and beat the egg
whites until they hold soft peaks. With the mixer running add the hot
syrup in a stream and beat the mixture on medium speed for 20
minutes, or until it is cool. Whisk about one cup of the egg white
mixture into the chocolate mixture to lighten it and fold the
chocolate mixture into the remaining eggwhite mixture gently but
thoroughly. Mound the mousse in the middle of the bottom meringue
layer, top it with the chocolate-covered meringue layer, chocolate
side up, and press the layer down gently until the mousse almost
reaches the edge. Chill the cake for one hour, or until the mousse is
set. Whipped cream: In a very small saucepan sprinkle the gelatin
over the framboise and two tablespoons water, let it soften for five
minutes, and heat the mixture over low heat, stirring, until the
gelatin is dis- solved. Let the gelatin cool as much as possible
while still remaining liquid.  In a chilled large bowl beat the cream
with the sugar and the vanilla until it is thick and the beaters just
begin to leave a mark, Add the gelatin mixture in a stream, beating,
and beat the mixture until it just holds stiff peaks.  (Be careful
not to over-beat. ) Reserve one-fourth of the whipped cream and
spread half the remaining whipped cream on top of the
chocolate-covered meringue layer. Arrange the raspberries on top and
spread the remaining half of the whipped cream on top. Put the
reserved meringue on the whipped cream, pressing it down gently, and
spread some of the reserved whipped cream on the side of the cake.
Put the remaining reserved whipped cream in a pastry bag fitted with
a star tip and pipe it decoratively on the top and bottom edges of
the cake. Garnish: Put the melted chocolate in a small pastry bag
fitted with a plain writing tip and pipe it in a spoke pattern on the
top of the cake. Arrange the raspberries around the edge of the cake
and in the center. Chill the cake for at least four hours and up to
eight hours.

: Gourmet Magazine January, 1991
Recipe By

