Title: CHOCOLATE STRAWBERRY CHEESECAKE
Categories: Desserts, Chocolate, Fruits
Yield: 12 Servings
48    Graham cracker squares;
-ground into crumbs
1/2 c  Sugar
1 c  Butter; melted
4 ts Grand Marnier
1 ts Cinnamon
1 qt Strawberries, fresh;
-stemmed
1/2 c  Sugar, confectioners
4 ts Grand Marnier
2 ts Cornstarch
2 ts ;Water
24 oz Cream cheese; softened
3    Eggs
3/4 c  Sugar
1 1/2 c  Sour cream
4 1/2 ts Flour
1 1/2 ts Vanilla
3 ts Grand Marnier
2 oz Chocolate, unsweetened
1 ts Butter
1 c  Sugar, confectioners; sifted
3 ts ;Water
1/2 c  Whipped cream; chilled
2 ts Sugar, confectioners
1 ts Grand Marnier
CRUST: Combine graham cracker crumbs, sugar, butter, four teaspoons of
liqueur and cinnamon, mix well and press onto bottom and sides of a
greased 10" springform pan. Chill.

STRAWBERRY LAYER: Puree strawberries, confectioners sugar and four
tablespoons of liqueur in a blender and place in top of a double
boiler. Add cornstarch and water. Cook until thickened, stirring
constantly. Cool to room temperature and set aside.

CHEESECAKE: Cut cream cheese into small pieces and place in food
processor or blender with the three eggs, 3/4 cup sugar, 1 1/2 cup
sour cream, 4 1/2 tsp flour, 1 1/2 tsp vanilla and three tablespoons
of liqueur. Blend just until smooth. Pour not quite half the
cheesecake mixture into crust. Carefully spoon strawberry layer over
cheesecake, covering entirely, but not overlapping crust. Carefully
pour rest of batter over strawberry layer. Bake on cookie sheet at
350 degrees for 70 to 75 minutes, or until the cake no longer shakes
in the center. Turn off oven, leave door ajar and allow the cake to
remain inside for one hour. Leave cake in pan, cover with plastic
wrap and refrigerate overnight. The following day, remove cake from
pan and set aside.

CHOCOLATE GLAZE: Melt chocolate and one teaspoon of butter in a double
boiler. Add one cup of confectioners sugar and three tablespoons of
water and mix well. Beat with wire whisk until smooth. While
chocolate is still warm, spoon evenly over top of cheesecake and
chill cake until glaze hardens.

WHIPPED CREAM: Place 1/2 cup whipped cream, two tablespoons of confec-
tioners sugar and one tablespoon of liqueur in a chilled bowl. With
chilled beaters, whip until stiff. Spoon into pastry bag with small
rosette tip and decorate cheesecake. Serve cake with whole fresh
strawberries.

