Title: CHOCOLATE GINGERBREAD SLEIGHS
Categories: Cookies
Yield: 1 Servings
2/3 c  Firmly packed brown sugar
1/2 c  Softened butter
1/4 c  Molasses
Egg yolk
1 3/4 c  Flour
3 tb Cocoa
1 ts Baking soda
1/2 ts Salt
1 1/2 ts Cinnamon
FROSTING:
1 1/4 c  Powdered sugar
1/4 ts Cream of tartar
Egg white
14 x  (3") candy canes
Candy for decorations
Candy to fill sleighs
In large bowl, beat brown sugar & butter until light & fluffy. Add
molasses & egg yolk; blend well. Lightly spoon flour into measuring
cup; level off. Add flour, cocoa, baking soda, salt & cinnamon; mix
well. Cover with plastic wrap; refrigerate 2 hours for easier
handling. Lightly grease cookie sheets. Heat oven to 350. On floured
surface, roll out 1/2 of dough to 3/16" thickness. Keep remaining
dough refrigerated. Using sleigh side pattern, cut 7 sleigh sides;
reserve trimmings. With large floured spatula, transfer pieces to
greased cookie sheets, placing 1" apart. Turn pattern over; cut 7
additional sleigh sides. Place each 1" apart on greased cookie sheet.
Bake at 350 for 6-9 minutes or until set. Remove from cookie sheets.
Cool. Meanwhile, roll reserved trimmings to 3/16" thickness. Using
square sleigh pattern, cut 14 squares. Bake & cool as directed for
sleigh sides. In small bowl, beat powdered sugar, cream of tartar &
egg white at low speed until blended. Beat at high speed until stiff.
Spoon frosting into pastry bag with med writing tip. Keep any
remaining frosting covered with damp paper towel or plastic wrap. To
assemble sleighs, place one sleigh side, back side up, on flat
surface. Pipe frosting along one edge of each of 2 squares. Attach
squares to sleigh, in a wide "v" shape. Pipe frosting along top edges
of squares. Attach second sleigh side, front side up, on squares,
making sure both sides are even. Hold in place a few seconds until
frosting is set. Repeat with remaining sleigh sides & squares to make
7 sleighs. Wrap pastry bag to keep from drying out. Let sleighs stand
1 hour or until frosting is completely dry. To decorate, using
frosting in pastry bag, attach a candy cane along outside bottom edge
on each side of each sleigh to resemble runners. Using small writing
tip, write name on each side of sleigh. Decorate with the frosting &
candies, as desired. To serve, fill sleighs with candies. Submitted
By THESERVS@GATE.NET (THOMAS E. HAUG) On   THU, 09 NOV 1995 172248
~0500

