Title: CHOCOLATE ROULAGE
Categories: Desserts
Yield: 12 Servings
9 oz Sweet cooking chocolate
9 oz Semi-sweet chocolate
13 c  Cold water
8    Eggs; separated
1 c  Sugar
Cocoa
1 1/2 c  Whipping cream
3 tb Confectioners' sugar; sifted
1 ts Vanilla extract
Oil the bottom of a 15 1/z x lO 1/2h x 1-inch jelly roll pan. Cut a
piece of waxed paper to fit the width of pan and extend about 1 inch
over ends. Place the chocolates and the water in the top of a double
boiler over hot water. Stir with a wooden spoon until the chocolate
is melted, then cool. Place the egg yolks in a large mixer bowl and
beat slightly with the mixer, Add the sugar gradually, beating
constantly until all the sugar is dissolved and the mixture is thick
and of a batter consistency. Stir in the chocolate with a rubber
spatula until well combined and free of streaks. Beat the egg whites
until stiff peaks form. Fold about 1/3 of the egg whites into the
chocolate mixture thoroughly to lighten, then fold in the remaining
egg whites carefully but completely with a rubber spatula. Spread the
batter evenly in the prepared pan. Bake in a preheated 350 - degree
oven for 18 minutes. Remove from oven and cover top with damp towels.
Let stand for 30 minutes or until cooled. Remove the towels
carefully, then loosen by lifting the extending ends of waxed paper.
Place cocoa in a fine sieve and dust top generously. Place a piece of
waxed paper over the top, then place a cookie sheet on top and
invert. Peel the waxed paper carefully from the cake. Place the cream
in a large mixer bowl and beat with an electric mixer until soft
peaks form. Sprinkle in the confectioners' sugar and beat until
stiff. Stir in the vanilla. Spread the whipped cream evenly over the
cake. Roll the cake from the long side, as for a jelly roll, directly
onto a serving tray. Roll with care as this cake is extremely tender.
Dust the top generously with cocoa. You may refrigerate the roll for
several hours before serving. Cut into slices to serve.

