Title: CHOCOLATE MINT NAPOLEON
Categories: Chocolate, Mint
Yield: 4 Servings
Mint Sauce:
6 tb Green Creme De Menthe
2 tb Sugar
1/2    Vanilla Bean -- split
Lengthwise
Mousse:
2 lg Egg Yolks
1/4 c  Sugar
3/4 c  Whipping Cream -- chilled
6 oz Bittersweet Chocolate --
Finely chopped
1/4 c  Clear Creme Do Cacao
1/4 c  Unsalted Butter -- at room
Temperature
Chocolate Barke:
2 oz Clear Hard Peppermint
Candies
12 oz Bittersweet Chocolate --
Finely chopped
For sauce:  Combine creme de menthe and sugar in small saucepan.
Scrap in seeds from vanilla bean; add bean. Stir over medium heat
until sugar dissolves. For Mousse: Whisk yolk and 1/4 cup sugar in
small bowl to blend. Bring 1/4 cup cream to simmer in heavy small
saucepan. Gradually whisk hot creme into egg mixture. Return mixture
to same saucepan. Stir constantly over medium-low heat until custard
thickens, about 1 minute (DO NOT BOIL). Reduce heat to low. Add
chocolate, creme do cacao and butter and stir until smooth.

Pour into large bowl.  Chill until cool, stirring occasionally, about
15 minutes.  Beat 1/2 cup cream in small bowl to stiff peaks. Fold
cream into chocolate mixture. Cover and chill. For Chocolate Bark:
Line 2 large baking sheets with parchment.  Finely grind mints in
food processor. Place half of chocolate in top of double boiler set
over simmering water. Stir until candy thermometer registers 115
degrees. Pour onto 1 prepared sheet. Using spatual, spread chcolate
to 1/16-inch thickness over parchment. Spinkle half of ground candies
over half of chocolate. Fold parchment in half to seal candies in
chocolate. Repeat with remaining chocolate and candies. Cover and
chill 1 to 24 hours. Peel parchment off chocolate bark. Break or cut
each sheet of bark into 6 irregular pieces, reserving any small
pieces for garnish.  Place 1 bark piece on plate. Spread scant 1/3
cup mousse over bark.  Place another bark piece atop mousse.  Spread
scant 1/3 cup mousse over.  Top with another bark piece.

Place dollop of mousse atop chocolate and top with any smaller bark
pieces, standing pieces upright.  Repeat with remaining bark and
mousse. (Can be made 6 hours ahead. Cover; chill. ) Garnish with
fresh mint leaves. Serve napoleons with mint sauce. My note: The
picture of this recipe shows the napoleons sitting atop the mint
sauce which has been carefully spooned in swirls on to the plate.

: Shane Gorringe, The Grill Room, Windsor Court Hotel
Recipe By

