Title: CHOCOLATE PEANUT BUTTER PIE   NFXS18B
Categories: Chocolate, Desserts, Pies
Yield: 6 Servings
MMMMM------------------------JUDY VOCELKA-----------------------------
1/3 c  Semi-sweet chocolate chips
1 tb Light corn syrup
1 tb Water
1/3 c  Creamy peanut butter
1/3 c  Sugar
3 tb Light corn syrup
3 tb Water
1/4 c  Peanuts; chopped
2 ea Egg whites; large
2 tb Sugar
1 ts Vanilla
1 c  Heavy cream; whipped
MMMMM-----------------PEANUT BUTTER COOKIE CRUST----------------------
14 ea Peanut butter sandwich cooki
3 tb Butter
Prepare the peanut butter cookie crust and set aside. * Combine the
chocolate chips, 1 T of light corn syrup and 1 T of water in the top
of a double boiler.  Cook over simmering water until the chocolate
melts and the mixture is smooth.  Remove from heat and cool well.
Meanwhile combine the peanut butter, 1/3 cup of sugar, 3 T corn
syrup and 3 T water in 2 quart saucepan. Cook over medium heat,
stirring comstantly until the sugar is dissolved and the mixture is
well blended. Pour into a bowl and stir in the peanuts; cool. Beat
the egg whites until foamy, using an electric mixer at high speed.
Gradually add 2 T of sugar, 1 T at a time, beating after each
addition.
Beat in the vanilla and continue beating until stiff, glossy peaks
form when the beaters are slowly lifted.
Fold the egg white mixture into the whipped cream.
Then fold in the peanut butter mixture.  Pour half of the peanut
butter mixture into the peanut butter cookie crust. Drizzle half of
the chocolate mixture over the filling. Top with remaining filling.
Drizzle the remianing chocolate in papallel lines over the filling.
Pull a knife across the lines in 1 inch intervals. Freeze until firm.
Wrap securely in aluminim foil. Return to the freezer and continue
freezing 8 hours or overnight.  Remove from freezer 10 minutes before
serving. * Peanut Butter Cookie Crust: Crush the cookies and melt the
butter. Combine them and mix well. Press the crumb mixture into the
bottom and up the sides of a 9-inch pie plate. Chill in the
refrigerate until set...From Judy Vocelka (NFXS18B) and formatted by
Liz Jones...March.1992...

