Title: CHOCOLATE CARAMEL TRUFFLES
Categories: Candies, Chocolate, Godiva
Yield: 20 Servings
CARAMEL:
1/2 c  PLUS 2 TABLESPOONS GRAN --
ULATED SUGAR
1/4 c  WATER
1/4 c  HEAVY CREAM
GANACHE:
8 oz BITTERSWEET CHOCOLATE --
COARSELY CHOPPED
3/4 c  HEAVY CREAM
1 tb UNSALTED BUTTER -- SOFTENED
2 tb VANILLA EXTRACT
CONFECTIONERS' SUGAR
UNSWEETENED COCOA POWDER
Make the caramel: In a small heavy saucepan, combine the sugar and
water. Bring to a boil over medium heat, stirring until the sugar
dissolves. Then continue to boil, without stirring, 4 to 5 minutes
longer, or until the syrup caramelizes and turns a deep amber in
color. Immediately remove the syrup from the heat and add the cream.
(The mixture will bubble up). Using a wooden spoon, stir until
completely smooth; if necessary, briefly return the caramel to low
heat and stir until smooth. Scrape into a small bowl and let cool to
room temperature. Refrigerate until well chilled, at least 2 hours.
Make the ganache: Place the chocolate in a food processor fitted with
the metal blade and process until finely chopped. In a small
saucepan, over medium heat, bring the cream to a gentle boil. With
the motor of the food processor running, pour the cream through the
feed tube. Process for 10 to 15 seconds, until the chocolate is
completely melted. Using a spatula, scrape down the side of the work
bowl.

Add the butter and vanilla and process for about 5 seconds, or until
the mixture is smooth and creamy. Scrape the ganache into a medium
bowl. Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate until firm enough to
pipe, about 1 hour. Make the caramel centers: Line a small baking
sheet with waxed paper. Using a 1/4-teaspoon measuring spoon dipped
in cold water, scoop out level spoonfuls of the caramel and place
about 1 inch apart on the baking sheet. Freeze until firm, at least
30 minutes. Form the truffles: Transfer the chilled ganache to a
pastry bag fitted with a 1/2-inch plain tip (such as Ateco #6). Pipe
1 1/4-inch mounds with pointed peaks onto a clean baking sheet.
Refrigerate or freeze the truffles for 10 to 20 minutes, or until
just firm enough to roll. Sift a light dusting of confectioners'
sugar over the chilled truffles. Lightly coat the palms and
fingertips of your hands with confectioners' sugar. With your
fingertips, pinch a truffle into a round, then roll it gently between
your palms into a slightly irregularly shaped 1 1/4 inch ball. Place
the rolled truffle on the baking sheet, and form the remaining
truffles into rounds. Refrigerate the truffles for about 10 minutes,
just until firm. Remove the rolled truffles from the refrigerator.
Remove 5 or 6 of the caramel centers from the freezer and place on a
cold plate. Working quickly, with your fingertips, pinch a caramel
center into a small ball. With the tip of your index finger, make an
indentation about 2/3 of the way through the center of a chocolate
truffle. Insert the caramel center in the truffle and, with your
fingertips, mold the chocolate over the caramel,

covering it completely. Place on a baking sheet and repeat the
procedure with the remaining chocolate truffles and caramel centers.
Refrigerate until firm, at least 30 minutes. Roll half the chocolate
truffles in sifted confectioners' sugar to coat. Roll the remaining
truffles in sifted cocoa powder to coat. Store the truffles for up to
5 days in an airtight container in the refrigerator. Remove from the
refrigerator 30 minutes before serving. ~ Judith Sutton
webmaster@godiva. com

:
Recipe By

