Title: French Fantan Rolls
Categories: Breads, French
Yield: 24 servings
4 lg Eggs, beaten
1/2 ts Butter extract (DON'T OMIT!)
1/8 ts Lemon extract (optional)
6 c  Bread flour (approximately)
1/4 c  Butter, melted
1 c  Milk, scalded
1/2 c  Butter (1 stick)
1/2 c  Sugar, granulated
1 ts Salt
2 tb Yeast, active, dry (2 pkgs)
1/4 c  Water (105- to 115-degrees)
Combine milk, butter, sugar and salt in a small saucepan.
Stir until the butter melts. Cool mixture to 105- to
115-degrees, use a thermometer.

Dissolve the yeast in 1/4 cup warm water in a large mixing
bowl. Stir in the milk mixture, eggs, butter extract
and lemon extract (if used). Gradually stir in enough
flour to make a soft dough. I usually start out with
5-1/2 cups and add more until the dough is no longer
sticky and is soft and silky.
Turn dough out onto a lightly floured surface; knead
until smooth and elastic (or let your mixer do the work),
about 5 minutes.

Place dough into a large greased bowl, turning to coat
the top with oil. Cover and let rise in a warm place until
double in bulk, about 1 hour.

Punch down dough to get out the air bubbles. NOW, you
can either make the "fan-shaped" rolls (I don't, they
take too long) or any shape you'd like. I usually make
"clover" shaped rolls. If you'd like the "fan-shape"
directions, let me know and I'll post that later. You can
make one small lemon sized ball per roll or make 3
walnut-sized balls per roll (for the cloverleaf rolls).
Place one ball of dough or 3 walnut-sized balls per roll
into LARGE greased muffin cups. If you'd like (it's not
necessary), roll the balls of dough in the melted butter
before putting them into the pans.

Cover and let rise in a warm place to rise for about 30
minutes or until double in size. The rolls will "balloon"
in size once you put them into the oven, don't let the
risen size fool you, they DO get BIG.

Preheat oven to 425-degrees.

Bake for 10-12 minutes or until golden brown.

After the first rising, punch down the dough and divide it
in half. Turn dough out onto a lightly floured board.
Roll EACH half into a 12 x 6-inch rectangle. Brush 2
TBS butter over top of each rectangle. Cut each rectangle
into six 1-inch strips. Stack 6 strips of dough (or lay
them side-by-side, it's easier to me), butter-side up
on top of one another. Cut each stack into 12 pieces,
about 1-inch wide. Place stacks of dough into well
buttered LARGE muffin cups (sideways). Follow rising
directions in the recipe.

