Title: Pumpkin Spice Cake in Jars
Categories: Fruits, Cakes
Yield: 1 servings
2 ts GROUND CLOVES
2 ts GROUND CINNAMON
1 ts GROUND GINGER
4 ea EGGS
2 c  GRANULATED SUGAR
1 c  SALAD OIL
16 oz Canned PUMPKIN
1 x  ELLIE COLLIN   (CMKD93F)
1 c  SEEDLESS RAISINS
1 c  WALNUTS
2 c  ALL-PURPOSE FLOUR
2 ts BAKING SODA
1/4 ts BAKING POWDER
1/2 ts SALT
Preheat oven to 325-degrees.
Sterilize 8 (1 pint, straight-sided) Kerr or Ball Quilted Crystal (12 oz,
straight-sided, Ball #14400-81400) canning jars, lids and rings by in
boiling water for 10 minutes.  Remove the jars from the water and allow to
air-dry. Leave  the lids and rings in the hot water until ready to use.
Once cool, brush (use a pastry brush) the inside of jars with shortening
(DO NOT use Pam or Baker's Secret); set aside. Coarsely chop the nuts and
raisins; set aside.
Sift together the flour, baking powder, baking soda, salt cloves, cinnamon
and ginger in a large bowl. Add raisins and walnuts; toss lightly to
combine.
In another large bowl, beat eggs at high speed until thick and yellow (2-3
minutes). Gradually beat in the sugar until thick and light. At low speed,
beat in the oil and pumpkin; blend thoroughly. Gradually stir in the flour
mixture until  well blended.
Divide batter among the 8 canning jars (should be slightly less than 1/2
full). Wipe the  sides of the jar off (inside/outside) in case you slop or
it'll burn. Place jars on a cookie sheet or they'll tip over. Bake in
preheated 325-degree oven for 35-40 minutes or until a toothpick inserted
deep into the center of the cakes comes out clean.
When cakes test done, remove the jars, one-by-one, place a lid, then a
ring onto each jar, screw down tightly. USE HEAVY-DUTY MITTS! The jars are
H O T ! Place jars onto your counter to cool. You'll be able to tell if
they've sealed--you'll hear a "plinking" sound. If you miss the sound, test
each jar by pushing on the lids once the jars are cool, they shouldn't move
at all.  These will keep in a cool, dark place for about 1 year. I'm not
sure, they don't last that long around here!

