Title: Abalone Salad
Categories: Seafood, Salad
Yield: 4 servings
1    1-in. fresh gingerroot ***
Freshly ground pepper
1 tb Rice vinegar
2 tb Dark soy sauce
4 tb Extra-virgin olive oil
Salt, pepper
Lime or lemon wedges (opt)
2    Sm head red leaf lettuce
1    Bunch arugula *
1    Small head radicchio**
12    Fresh shiitake mushrooms
24    Chinese pea pods
4    Fresh medium abalone
2    Limes,or more (juice only)
Note: If abalone is not available, substitute sea scallops cut into
paper-thin slices. *You may substitute watercress instead of arugula.
**May use red cabbage instead of radicchio. ***Gingerroot should be
peeled and grated. Rinse and dry lettuce, arugula and radicchio.
Discard mushroom stems and slice tops in thin vertical slices. Rinse
and dry peas. Remove abalone from shells, using handle of heavy spoon
to break muscle attachments. Reserve shells. Clean abalone well,
discarding undesirable parts. Clean shells thoroughly, dry and set
aside. Using meat slicer, slice abalone muscle crosswise into
tissue-thin pieces. If abalone can't be sliced tissue-thin, slice
thin as possible and pound each slice on flat surface with mallet or
flat end of cleaver until tender and almost transparent but not
shredded. Combine juice of 1 lime, 1 tablespoon grated ginger and
grind or two of fresh pepper in bowl. Add abalone slices and toss to
coat well. Marinate 15 to 20 minutes, stirring occasionally. Combine
remaining lime juice, remaining ginger, vinegar, soy sauce and 3
tablespoons olive oil in small bowl. Tear lettuce, arugula and
radicchio into coarse pieces and place in large bowl. Toss with
dressing oil. Arrange greens in abalone shells or on serving plates.
Set aside. Heat remaining 1 tablespoon olive oil in skillet or saute
pan, add mushrooms and peas and season to taste with salt and pepper.
Stir-fry briefly, just until peas turn bright green. Remove from heat
and toss to mix well. Pile hot mixture on top of greens in abalone
shells. Top with abalone slices. Garnish with lime or lemon wedges,
if desired. Created by: Wolfgang Puck, Chinois on Main, Santa Monica
(C) 1992 The Los Angeles Times

