Title: Autumn Harvest Couscous
Categories: Vegetarian, Main dish
Yield: 8 servings
-2" lengths
3    Russet potatoes; peeled and
-cut into quarters
1/2 lb Turnips, small, white;
-peeled and quartered
3 sm Yellow onions; peeled and
-halved
2 md Zucchinis;ends trimmed
3 lg Tomatoes, ripe; cored and
-quartered
1 cn Garbanzo beans (16 oz);
-rinsed and drained
1 c  Pitted prunes; halved
1/2 c  Golden raisins
3 tb Cilantro leaves; chopped
8 c  Couscous; cooked
6 md Leeks with 4 inches of
-greens left on
1 tb White vinegar
12 c  Vegetable broth
4 tb Olive oil
8 lg Cilantro sprigs; washed,
6    -roots and stems bruised
9    Garlic cloves; peeled and
-lightly bruised
3    Cinnamon sticks; each 3 "
-long
2 ts Cumin
2 ts Curry powder
1/4 ts Saffron threads; crumbled
1 ts Coarse salt
6 md Carrots; peeled, halved]
-lengthwise, and cut into
1.  Trim roots off leeks. Cut a 2-inch "X"{ throught he white bulb
and a 3-inch "X" through the green ends.
Place leeks in a bowl and cover with water and 1 T vinegar.Soak for
30 minutes to remove any sand.Drain and rinse under running water.
Reserve.

2.  While the leeks are soaking, prepare athe seasoned broth. Place
broth, olvie oil, cilantro sprigs, garlic, cinnamon sticks,
cumin,ciurry powder, saffron and salt in a very large, heavy pot.
Bring to a boil, reduce heat and simmer for 30 minutes.

3.  Place reserved leeks, carrots, potatoes, turnips and onions into
the broth. Bring to a boil, reduce heat and simmer for 30 minutes.

4.  Using a potato peeler, peel zucchini lengthwise at intervals to
make 3 or 4 stripes in the skin. Cut zucchii into 1 1/2-inch lengths.

5. Add zucchini, tomatoes, garbanzos, prunes and raisins.Stir gently
so that vegetables don't break up.
Cook for 30 minutes.

6.  Just before serving, gently heat vegetables and broth through.
Stir in 3 TBS of the chopped cilantro.
Spoon cooked couscous into shallow bowls and top with vegetables and
broth. Garnish with the remaining tablespoon of chopped cilantro.
Serve hot.

Per serving: 526 cal; 9 g fat; 0 chol

Parade Magazine, Oct. 24, 1993/MM by DEEANNE

