Title: Chestnut and Lentil Soup
Categories: Soup/stew, Vegetarian
Yield: 6 servings
1    Celery stalk
- cut into small squares
1/2 sm Onion; finely diced
1 lg Garlic clove
- peeled and finely chopped
1    Bay leaf
1/2 ts Salt; or to taste
5    Parsley sprigs
1 lb Chestnuts
Light oil
1 c  French green lentils
-=OR=- Brown Lentils
2 qt Water
1 md Carrot
- diced into
- small, even squares
MMMMM---------------------FINISHING THE SOUP--------------------------
-Lentils (from above)
Water, stock or cream
-(as needed)
Salt
Freshly milled black pepper
Extra-virgin olive oil
Finely chopped parsley
Small croutons, fried
-(in butter or oil)
-(optional)
3 tb Light olive oil
-Chestnuts (from above)
1 1/2 ts Chopped fresh marjoram -OR-
1/2 ts -Dried Marjoram
1/4 ts Fennel seeds, crushed
- (or ground)
Fresh thyme sprigs; -=OR=-
1 pn -(generous) dried Thyme
1/2 c  Dry white wine
1 tb Tomato paste
PREHEAT OVEN TO 350F. Score chestnuts on their rounded sides and toss
them in just enough oil to lightly coat them. Place chestnuts on
baking sheet. Bake until skins have opened and meat is tender, about
20 minutes. When cool enough to handle, peel and dice them into small
pieces. Set aside. Rinse lentils and combine them in soup pot with
the water. Bring to boil. Cook a few minutes at gentle boil, removing
foam that forms on surface. Add carrot, celery, onion, garlic, bay
leaf, salt and parsley. Lower heat and simmer until lentils are
tender, about 35 minutes. When done, remove parsley sprigs and bay
leaf. Correct seasoning and add salt, if necessary. Puree half the
lentils until smooth, then recombine them with the rest. FINISHING
THE SOUP: In pan large enough to hold soup, warm olive oil, then add
roasted chestnuts and herbs. Cook over medium heat, stirring
frequently, for several minutes. Add wine and tomato paste. Stir to
dissolve tomato paste and cook a few minutes to reduce wine. Stir in
lentil mixture and simmer gently 20 minutes. If soup is too thick,
thin it with a little water, stock or cream until of right
consistency. Taste for salt and season with pepper. Serve with
spoonful of olive oil swirled into each bowl. Sprinkle with parsley
and croutons, if desired.

DEBORAH MADISON - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK

