Title: Cock-A-Leekie
Categories: Soup/stew
Yield: 6 servings
-do it.)
8    Pieces of frying chicken (A
-3 to 4-pound chicken should
Cock-a-Leekie

A pound of beef shanks, hacked into stewing size  (about 1") 6 cups of
chicken stock.  (Canned is ok, but it's better if you make your own
ahead of time.) 3 slices of thick bacon or maybe salt pork, diced
pretty fine. 1 Tblsp dried thyme.  (Whole is better!) 1 bay leaf 3/4
cup pearl barley. (The kind you use in soup.) 1 1/2 cups of leeks.
(Rinse and chop white parts only.) Salt and pepper as you require.

You're going to need an 8-quart or better casserole that can stand up
to the stove burners.  Bring the whole thing to a boil, (leave out
the barley, leeks, salt and pepper.)  Simmer covered for 30 minutes.
Meanwhile, in another part of the forest, bring the barley to a boil
in 1 1/2 cups of water for 10 min., drain and set it aside.  Debone
the chicken when it's done and set it aside. Add the leeks to the pot
along with the barley and simmer for 15 minutes. (Still with me?)
Then debone the beef and chop coarsely.  Dump the beef and the
chicken back in the pot and simmer, covered, for 5 min. Garnish with
chopped fresh parsley.  Sing "Men of Harlech."   Pour a single malt.
Serve.

And, if you're not up to Cock-a-Leekie ... In "A Moveable Feast" (sic)
Ernest Hemingway offers the following leek recipe: Trim leeks,
leaving just a smidgen of green and rinse them. Steam them for about
20 minutes or boil them for about the same time, until they are
reasonably tender. Meanwhile, mix equal parts of extra-virgin olive
oil and wine vinegar with a whisk in a bowl. When leeks are cooked,
cut into quarters lengthwise and put them in a bowl of the
oil/vinegar mix.  They should be just covered by the mix. Cover the
bowl and put in refrigimagrator for an hour or so. (Overnight is even
better, but St. David's Day is already upon us.)  Then dust them with
a healthy dose of fresh-ground pepper and serve as a salad or side
dish.

Source CIS Sailing Forum Contributed by: Pete Porro

