Title: Enchiladas Supremas
Categories: Vegetarian, Main dish, Tex/mexican
Yield: 6 servings
1 1/2 c  Corn, frozen; thawed
16 oz Tomato sauce, canned, un-
-sweetened
16 oz Tomato puree, canned, un-
-sweetened
2 tb Chili powder, or to taste
1 ts Oregano, dried
1 ts Cumin
12    Tortillas, corn
Canola oil, for brushing the
-tortillas
1/2 c  Olives, black; pitted,
-chopped
1 lb Tofu, firm
1/4 c  Tamari
2 tb Peanut butter, unsalted,
-smooth
2 tb Tomato paste, unsweetened
1 tb Olive oil
2 md Onions; finely chopped
1 md Bell pepper, green; seeded
-and finely chopped
1    Chili pepper, hot, fresh;
-seeded and minced
2    Garlic cloves; minced
2    Corn ears; kernels cut off
-the cob OR
Drain and rinse the tofu. Put the tofu in a plastic bag or container,
close it tightly, and freeze until the tofu is frozen hard. Remove
the bag or container from the freezer and put it in a bowl of hot
water, or let the tofu thaw at room temperature. Gently squeeze the
water from the tofu with your hands, and then squeeze it between tow
kitchen towels. Cut the tofu into 1/4 inch cubes.

In a large bowl, stir the tamari, peanut butter, and tomato paste
until blended.

Heat the olive oil in a large frying pan over medium heat. Add the
tofu, onions, bell pepper, chile pepper and garlic. Cook until
softened, about 6 minutes. Stir into the tamari mixture. Stir in the
corn.

In a medium bowl, combine the tomato sauce, tomato puree, chili
powder, oregano and cumin.

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. Lightly oil a 9- by 13-inch baking
dish.

Spread about 1 cup of the tomato sauce over the bottom of the baking
dish.

Heat a dry frying pan or griddle over medium heat.
Brush each tortilla lightly on both sides with oil.
Add the tortillas, one at a time, to the pan or griddle and beat for
about 15 seconds on each side so they are warm and flexible. Put 1/2
cup of the tofu-vegetable mixture in the center of each tortilla.
Roll up tightly and place in the baking dish seam side down. Pour the
remaining tomato sauce over the enchiladas. Cover with aluminum foil,
and bake until bubbling, 30 to 35 minutes.

Scatter the chopped black olives over the enchiladas and serve hot.

May All be Fed by John Robbins/MM by DEEANNE

