Title: Festive Chicken
Categories: Jewish, Poultry, Main dish, Chicken
Yield: 5 servings
5 ea Large cloves garlic, minced
2 ea Ribs celery, coarse chop
2 ea Granny Smith apples, >>>>
Peeled, pared, coare chop.
3 tb Parsley, minced
1/4 ts Salt
2 tb Fresh lemon juice
2 ts Dijon mustard
Fresh sliced pineapple
3 tb Honey
1/4 c  Orange juice concentrate OR
Mixture of orange & pineapp.
Concentrates.
1/2 ts Ea. crushed cloves & paprika
1 ea 4 lb. broiler,skinned & cut>
Into serving pcs.
2/3 c  Matzo meal mix
2 1/2 tb Italian olive oil
2 ea Med. onions, coarse chop
Put 2 tbs. honey in 8 oz. measure.  While stirring, add
concentrate, cloves and paprika.  Fill with water to 8 oz. mark and
stir.  Pour into a wide bowl.

Rinse and dry chicken.  Prick all over with sharp-pronged fork.
Add to bowl, turning several times to coat.  Let stand at room temp.
for 30 min.

Drain chick. reserving marinade.  Arrange pcs. on lge. flat plate.
Sprinkle with 1/4 c. Matzo Meal Mix, pressing to adhere.  Turn.
Repeat on other side till all is evenly coated.  Chill in freezer for
10 min.

Preheat oven to 375 F.  Heat 1 tb. oil in lge. well seasoned iron
skillet.  In bowl, combine onions, garlic, celery and apples.  Strew
1/4 c. across hot oiled skillet.  Cook for 30 seconds over med-hi
heat.  Add half the chicken and lightly brown on both sides ( 5
min.), scooping up and turning with sharp edged spatula.  Transfer
chic. and browned particles to plate.  Add another tablespoon of oil.
Repeat untill all is browned.

Saute remaining veg.-apple mix. till lightly browned, scraping
bottom of skillet to loosen particles.  Add marinade around edges of
skillet. Add 2 tb. parsley and bring to a boil, stirring to combine.

Return chick. to pan, spooning with thick sauce.  Cover and simmer
on top of stove for 3 min.  Baste.  Place in center of oven for 50
min., spooning with sauce once, midway.

Remove from oven.  Sprinkle salt evenly over all.  In cup, blend
remaining tb. of honey with lemon juice and mustard.  Pour over
chicken. Re-cover and let stand for 5 min.

Drain chick. of sauce and arrange pcs. on lge. warmed serving
plate. Stir sauce and reheat briefly.  Spoon some of it over the
chick.  Cut each pineapple slice into thirds and arrange around sides
of plate in neat pattern.  Serve immediately, sprinkled with
remaining parsley; serve extra sauce on side.

Yield:  4 or 5 servings.
Frances Prince's New Jewish Cuisine

