Title: Grilled Country Ribs From George Fassett
Categories: Meat
Yield: 4 servings
MMMMM----------------------MARINATING SAUCE---------------------------
3/4 ts Bell's seasoning
1 tb Parsley flakes
1/4 ts Oregano
1/4 ts Garlic Powder
1 c  Vegetable oil
1/4 c  White vinegar
4    Eggs
1 tb Salt
1/2 ts Black pepper
MMMMM----------------------FOILED POTATOES---------------------------
1 sm Onion, halved and sl
Salt & Pepper to tas
Veg. shortening
5 md Potatoes
1/4    Stick of butter
1/2 ts Parsley
1    Clove garlic, chopped
Marinating the Ribs:

Place country pork rib slices in a large container, such as a
tupperware-type with a tight-fitting lid, add all ingredients for
marinade. Cover and shake vigorously to mix.  Refrigerate, overnight
best but a few hours at the least.  This is an adaptation to the
class "Fireman's Field Days" marinade.

Preparing the potatoes:

Spread out two 3 ft. sheets of heavy duty aluminum foil, splic
together to form one wide one.  Rub vegetable shortening on center
2/3 of foil to prevent sticking.  Slice potatoes, skin still on, onto
foil food processor works wonders..).  Season potato slices with
remainder ingredients, slice butter over top.    Carefully draw sides
of foil together and crimp (don't pull apart seam on bottom!) and
then roll up ends.

Cooking:

Get grill hot, place foil potatoes over high heat and cook for to 20
min., then move to low-heat area, upper shelf, or keep warm in oven.
(Check potatoes by unrolling top a bit and they should be soft,
bottom layer browned well.)

Keeping grill hot, lay out pork slices from marinade and grill Adjust
temp for flaming/burning, not letting them fire or char.  Turn baste,
letting marinade cook on top of meat before turning again.  The egg
congeals on the hot surface of the ribs and helps to coat the ribs
Continue turning and basting every few minutes until all marinade is
g approx. 30-40 minutes. Cut into thickest part of a slice and check
fo doneness - there should be no pink.  The object of turning and
basting to build up a coating of the cooked marinade on the meat,
almost like crust. Meat will have a well-cooked appearance but should
not be char black (don't let flames ignite marinade and burn it).

Serve foil potatoes hot from foil (mmm, get the crispy ones on
bottom, like potato chips!) and dive into the ribs.  Add your
favorite vegetable or corn on the cob for a great meal, any time of
the year!

From George Fassett, Cyberealm BBS Watertown NY 315-786-1120

