Title: Herbed Cheese Tarts
Categories: Appetizer, Cheese/eggs
Yield: 24 servings
1 tb All-purpose flour
1/4 ts Dried basil, crushed
1/8 ts Garlic powder
2    Eggs
1/3 c  Fine dry bread crumbs or
-finely crushed zwieback
8 oz Pkg cream cheese, softened
3/4 c  Cream-style cottage cheese
1/2 c  Shredded Swiss cheese
nonstick spray coating dairy sour cream (optional) sliced or slivered
pitted ripe olives, red caviar OR chives (optional) roasted red
papper OR pitted ripe olive cutouts* (optional)

For crust, spray twenty-four 1 3/4 inch muffin cups with nonstick
spray coating. Sprinkle bread crumbs or crushed zwieback onto bottom
and sides to coat. Shake pans to remove excess crumbs. Set aside.

In a small mixer bowl, combine cream cheese, cottage cheese, Swiss
cheese, flour, basil, and garlic powder. Beat with an electric mixer
on medium speed just till fluffy. Add eggs; beat on low speed just
till combined. Do not overbeat.

Fill each crumb-lined muffin cup with 1 tablespoon of the cheese
mixture. Bake in a 375 degree F oven for 15 minutes or till centers
appear set. (Tarts will puff during baking, then deflate as they
cool.) Cool in pans on wire racks for 10 minutes. Remove from pans.
Cool thoroughly on wire racks.

To serve, spread tops with sour cream.  Garnish with olives, caviar,
chives, and/or red pepper and olive cut-outs. Makes 24 tarts.

TO REFRIGERATE:

Bake and cool tarts as directed, except do not spread with sour cream
or top with garnish. Cover and chill kin the refrigerator for up to
48 hours. Let tarts stand at room temperature for 30 minutes before
serving. Spread with sour cream and garnish as directed.

TO FREEZE:

Bake and cool tarts as directed, except do not spread with sour cream
or garnish. Freeze tarts, uncovered, on wire rack about 1 hour or
till firm. Transfer to a freezer container or bag. Seal, label, and
place in the freezer. To thaw, let stand, loosely covered, at room
temperature about 2 hours or in the refrigerator overnight. Spread
with sour cream and garnish as directed.

* Decorative cut-outs:  Use tiny hors d'oeuvre cutters to cut leaves,
stars, or other decorative shapes out of the roasted red peppers and
pitted ripe olives.

From:  THE JOY OF HOLIDAY BAKING, Better Homes and Gardens, 11/90
Posted by:  Karin Brewer, Cooking Echo, 6/92

