Title: Kahlua White Chocolate Valentine Cake
Categories: Chocolate, Cake/cookie, Dessert
Yield: 6 servings
-butter room temperature
1 c  Sugar
1    Whole egg
1    Separated egg
6 tb Milk room temp
KAHLUA SYRUP:
3 tb Water
1 ts Instant coffee powder
1 ts Sugar
1/4 c  Kahlua
1 3/4 c  Whipping cream
3 1/2 oz Chopped white chocolate
1/4 ts Vanilla
CAKE:
2 oz White chocolate
1/2 c  Whipping cream
1 1/3 c  Sifted cake flour
1/2 ts Baking powder
Salt
1/4 c  (4 tablespoon) unsalted
WHITE CHOCOLATE GANACHE:

Prepare ganache before mixing and baking cake to allow it to chill.

GANACHE: In large bowl of electric mixer, combine cream and
chocolate. Set over simmering water until chocolate is melted. Stir
until smooth. Refrigerate at least 4-5 hours, stirring occasionally,
until very thick. Add vanilla and beat until stiff.

CAKE: In small bowl set over simmering water, melt chocolate and cream
together. Stir until smooth. Set aside to cool completely. In large
bowl of electric mixer, beat batter until fluffy. Gradually beat in
3/4 cup sugar. Beat in whole egg and egg yolk until smooth. Stir in
cooled chocolate. Alternately stir in dry ingredients and milk,
beginning and ending with dry ingredients and blending thoroughly
after each addition. In small bowl, whisk egg white with dash of salt
until soft peaks form. Whisk in remaining 1/4 cup sugar, beating
until very thick and glossy and mixture falls from whisk in heavy
ribbon. Gently fold egg white into batter. Pour batter into 8 or 9
inch heart shaped cake pan which has been lined with butter and
floured waxed paper. Bake on center shelf of oven at 350 degrees
about 40 minutes or until wooden pick inserted in center comes out
clean. Cool in pan 10 minutes. Turn out of pan, if necessary, first
trim any excess crust away from pan rim, and carefully peel away
paper. Cool completely. Transfer cake to serving plate. Using wood
pick, poke holes about 1 inch deep and at about 1 inch intervals in
top of cake. Frost with white chocolate ganache.

KAHLUA SYRUP: In small saucepan, combine water, coffee powder and
sugar. Stir over low heat to dissolve coffee and sugar. Bring to boil
and pour into small bowl. Add kahlua and stir to blend. Cool.

