Title: Luxe Layer Extravaganza
Categories: Cake/cookie, Chocolate, Dessert
Yield: 8 servings
1/2 c  Granulated sugar
1/4 c  Water
1 c  Heavy cream
2 tb 10 X (confectioners') sugar
1 ts Vanilla
4    Egg whites
1/8 ts Cream of tartar
1 c  Raspberries
1 ts Grenadine
Garnish (Optional): whipped
-cream, orange zest,
Fresh raspberries
1/2 c  Boiling water
1/2 c  Unsweetened cocoa powder
2/3 c  Buttermilk
1 2/3 c  All-purpose flour
1 ts Baking soda
1/2 ts Baking powder
1/4 ts Salt
1/2 c  Butter, softened (1 stick)
1 1/3 c  Granulated sugar
3    Eggs
1 ts Vanilla
RASPBERRY FILLING:
CHOCOLATE CAKE:

PREPARE THE CAKE:  Grease a 15 x 10 x 1-inch baking pan.  Line with
waxed paper.  Grease the waxed paper.  Preheat the oven to moderate
(350F).

Pour the boiling water over the cocoa powder in a medium-size bowl;
stir to dissolve the cocoa.  Stir in the buttermilk; the mixture
should be cool. Sift the flour, baking soda, baking powder, and salt
onto a sheet of waxed paper.

Beat the butter and sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer at
medium speed until light and fluffy.  Add the eggs, one at a time,
beating after each addition.  Add the vanilla.  Beat the dry
ingredients into the butter mixture, alternating with the cocoa
mixture, beginning and ending with the dry ingredients.  Pour into
the prepared pan.

Bake for 20 minutes or until the center springs back when lightly
pressed. Cool the cake in the pan on a large wire rack for 10
minutes. Turn the cake out onto the rack to cool completely.  Remove
the waxed paper.

PREPARE THE FILLING:  Heat the granulated sugar and water to boiling
in a very small saucepan over medium heat, stirring to dissolve the
sugar. Boil until the temperature registers 240 F on a candy
thermometer, about 10 minutes.

Meanwhile, beat the heavy cream, 10 X sugar, and vanilla in a small
bowl until stiff.  Cover and refrigerate.

Using clean beaters, beat together the egg whites and cream of tartar
in a large bowl until soft peaks form.  Slowly beat the hot syrup
into the egg whites, beating until the meringue forms stiff peaks and
is cool.

Place the raspberries in a blender or food processor.  Whirl for
about 5 seconds to puree.  Fold the raspberries and grenadine into
the whipped cream.  Gently fold the meringue into the raspberry
cream. Set aside.

ASSEMBLE THE CAKE:  Cut the cake crosswise into three equal
rectangles (5 x 10 inches).  Place one rectangle on a serving
platter. Top with 2 cups of the filling.  Repeat two more times,
ending with a layer of raspberry cream.  Garnish with whipped cream,
orange zest, or fresh raspberries, if you wish.

Makes 8 servings.

Nutrient Value per Serving: 529 Calories, 9 g Protein, 26 g fat, 68 g
Carbohydrate, 399 mg sodium, 152 mg Cholesterol.

Exchanges: 1 1/4 starch/bread, 1 1/3 fruit, 3/4 lean meat, 4 1/2 fat.

[FAMILY CIRCLE; 2/1/91]

Posted by Fred Peters.

