Title: Mama Bina's Italian Chicken Soup
Categories: Soup/stew
Yield: 6 servings
-Italian parsley)
3 c  To 4 c cooked pastina or
-rice
1    Stewing chicken, cut into
-pieces
2    Whole carrots, finely diced
1/2 c  Chopped parsley (preferably
Shelley Rodgers (Jolly Rodgers:the Portuguese Pirate!
FROM:
(1:161/202))

This recipe came from an unknown magazine.  Judging from the comments
that accompanied the recipe, apparently the magazine was running a
Chicken Recipe contest.

Mama Bina's Italian Chicken Soup No Chicken Recipe Contest worth its
bouillon would be complete without a recipe for chicken soup. This
recipe was submitted by Renata Pagliaro and Maureen Vieck of
Cuperino, CA. Renata writes: "I can remember as a child my mother
would prepare chicken soup at least once a week for dinner.  Typical
of children, I thought that soup was boring (hardly to be compared to
a hot dog!) and I also thought it was some strange dish that only
Italians ate.

"Now that I am older and ore sophisticated (enough to even like
spinach!), I have come to appreciate my mother's chicken soup. It is
delicate and so simple taht it is actually elegant.  To top all of
that, it is easy to make, nutritious and low in calories."

salt to taste

Wash the chicken pieces and remove as much skin as possible.  Put the
chicken into a large dutch oven, fill with water and cook over high
heat. When the water boils, skim off the foam that comes to the
surface and discard.

When no more foam appears, put the carrots and parsley into the pot
with the chicken. Lower the heat to a simmer so taht the water
doesn't boil down. Do not cover. Add salt to taste and check every so
often for flavor.

Allow to cook for 1-1/2 hours.  You may prepare rice or pastina in the
meantime and set it aside.  After soup has cooked, remove the chicken
from the pot with a slotted spoon.  Take the chicken off the bones
and tear into bite-sized pieces and place back into the broth.

Put the cooked and strained pastina or rice into the soup and allow
to heat through.  Just before serving, you may add a little butter
for flavor.

Serve hot with a crusty French bread and a bottle of white wine.
This soup

