Title: Marinated Nigari Tofu
Categories: Chinese, Vegetarian
Yield: 6 servings
-(to taste)
1 tb Fresh lemon juice
1/4 ts Salt
Crushed red pepper, to taste
-(optional)
1 lb Nigari tofu
2    Medium-sized cloves garlic,
-minced
2 tb Chinese sesame oil
2 tb Soy sauce
1 tb Mirin
1    To 2 teaspoons brown sugar
"Some people love their tofu plain.  Others find it dull unless it is
marinated in strong delicious flavors, as in this recipe.  Firm tofu
marinates beautifully.  (Softer varieties contain -- and thus expel
~- more water, causing the marinade to become dilute.)

Nigari tofu is one of the firmest types available.  You can find it
in some Asian groceries and in many natural food stores.  It usually
comes vacuum-packed or in a container of water.  If you can't get
tofu labeled "nigari," just use the firmest you can find.  Mirin is
Japanese cooking sake, available in most Asian grocery stores.  If
you can't find it, substitute a sweet wine or sherry. (my note:  I
use regular "hard" tofu from the grocery store, slice it and let it
drain for a while. Also, I do not use the mirin or any substitute
with alcohol, and it all still comes out great.)

1. Combine all ingredients except tofu in a shallow pan or bowl. Whisk
until well combined. (my note: I use a 9x13 baking dish.)

2. Cut the tofu into 1/2 x 1 1/2-inch pieces.  Lay them out in the
marinade in such a way as to allow maximum contact with the sauce.
Marinate at room temperature for several hours (provided the room is
not too hot, in which case, cover them and let them marinate in the
refrigerator). Turn them and move them around every 20 to 30 minutes
or so, and tilt the pan periodically, so the flavors of the marinade
can make the rounds and the tofu gets deeply an evenly penetrated.

3. After the tofu has been marinating for several hours you may either
serve it at room temperature, or cover it tightly, and refrigerate
until serving time. (It will keep for several days if it is fresh to
begin with.)

My Notes:  I am the only one here that likes tofu, so this is nice in
that I don't have to eat it up all at once!  It is delicious, and I
like the pieces in with a salad, plopped onto noodles, or just by
itself. If you don't like tofu, Karin, I'm sure someone else will
enjoy the recipe ;-)

From Still Life With Menu by Mollie Katzen

