Title: Mocha Cheesecake
Categories: Cheese/eggs, Low-cal/fat, Holiday
Yield: 12 servings
-ELAINE RADIS BGMB90B
MMMMM-------------------CHOCOLATE CRUMB CRUST------------------------
-coffee flavored
1 ts Instant coffee crystals
1 ts Allspice
30    Chocolate wafers; 3/4 box
2 tb Unsalted butter; melted
2 tb Light vegetable oil
1 tb Kahlua; or other liquer
MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
2 tb Instant coffee crystals
3/4 c  Flour
3 tb Cocoa; sifted
1    Whole egg; AND
2    Egg whites
2 c  PLAIN LOW FAT YOGURT; drain
-OR
1 c  Yogurt cheese
1 1/4 c  Lowfat ricotta cheese
1 c  Lowfat cottage cheese
1/4 c  Kahlua; or other
Put the yogurt into a sieve lined with a double layer of cheescloth
or a coffee filter and set it over a bowl. Let the yogurt drain in
the frige for at least 8 hours, recucing the volume by half to 1 cup.

Process the wafers in the FP to make crumbs.  Add the remaining crust
ingredients and process enough to combine them. They should just stick
together.  (if not, add a bit more of the liqueur)/ Press a thin
layer of crumbs on the bottom and part way up the sides of an 8"
springform pan or a deep 10" pie plate. Chill to set.

Preheat the overn to 300 degrees. Put the cottage cheese through a
fine sieve, cover the top with plastic wrap and gently press to the
surface to extrude some of the whey on the bottom.  Let it sit for
about 15 minutes. Let the ricotta drain in another sieve for about 15
minutes. Put the kahlua in a small cup and stir in coffee srytals to
let them disolve.

Process the cottage cheese in a FP for a couple of minutes to smooth
the curds.  Add the ricotta and process a minute more. Add the
yogurt, sugar, Kahlua mixture, flour, cocoa and eggs and egg whites
and combine well. Pout the batter int the prepared pan and bake in
the preheated oven for one hour.  Turn off the heat and leave the
cake in the oven for an additional hour.  Let the cake cool at room
temperature, then cover (without messing up the surface) for several
hours or overnight.

To serve carefully remove the sides, first running a knife between the
crust and the sides.  Garnish the cheescake with vanukka-flavored
yogurt, well drainded or with coffee crystals or whole beans.

