Title: Old Fashioned Cream of Chicken Soup
Categories: Soup/stew, Poultry, Chicken
Yield: 8 servings
-dried, crumbled
SOUP:
1/2    Stick unsalted butter - OR
-olive oil (1/4 cup)
1 lg Onion - white, minced
2    Stalk celery - minced
1/2 c  Flour - all-purpose
3 c  Milk
1 c  Whipping cream
1 tb Dry Sherry
1 tb Green peppercorn mustard
3 lb Chickens
12 1/2 c  Water
1    Onion - unpeeled, pierced
-with 2 whole cloves
2    Stalk celery - with leaves
2    Carrots - cut into 2-inch
-pieces
4    Sprig parsley
12    Peppercorns - whole black
1    Bay leaf
1 tb Thyme - fresh OR 1 teaspoon
CHICKEN STOCK:

salt and freshly ground pepper minced fresh parsley

FOR STOCK: Preheat oven to 400F. Pat chickens dry. Place in heavy
roasting pan.  Roast until juices run clear when chicken is pierced
in thickest part of thigh, about 45 minutes.

Remove chicken from pan.  Set roasting pan over medium heat.  Add 1/2
cup water and bring to boil, scraping up any browned bits.  Transfer
liquid to large pot.  Add remaining 12 cups water, onion, celery,
carrots, parsley, peppercorns, bay leaf and thyme to pot.  Skin and
bone chicken. Add skin and bones to pot.  Bring stock to boil,
skimming surface occasionally. Reduce heat and simmer for 3 hours.

Strain stock into large saucepan.  Boil until reduced to 3 cups,
about 40 minutes.  (Can be prepared 3 days ahead and refrigerated.)
Degrease stock.

FOR SOUP: Melt butter in heavy large saucepan over low heat. Add
onion and celery and cook until onion is translucent, stirring
frequently, about 15 minutes; do not brown.  Puree mixture in
processor or blender.  Return to pan.  Add flour and stir over low
heat 3 minutes.  Whisk in stock. Increase heat and bring to boil.
Gradually whisk in milk.  Reduce heat and simmer until thickened,
stirring frequently, about 20 minutes.  Dice chicken and add to soup.
Add cream, Sherry, mustard, salt and pepper. Stir until heat through.
Ladle into bowls.  Top with parsley.

Serves 8.

Recipe from Bon Appetit, October, 1987.

Posted by Michelle Bass. Courtesy of Fred Peters.

