Title: Ribollita (Italian Bean Soup)
Categories: Soup/stew, Vegetable
Yield: 6 servings
2 tb Olive oil
2    Carrots, pared, trimmed,
-diced
1/2 c  Diced red onion (1/2 medium)
1 c  Shredded green cabbage
2    Ribs celery, trimmed, diced
1 1/2 c  (or as needed) chicken broth
10 oz Frozen chopped spinach,
-thawed, squeezed dry
1/4 c  Freshly grated Parmesan
-cheese
1 c  Dried small white beans (8
-ounces)
8    Cloves garlic
1    Bay leaf
1 lg (3-inch) cube salt pork
-(optional)
14 oz Crushed Italian-style
-tomatoes
2/3    Loaf day-old French or
-Italian bread (8 ounces
-when fresh)
Info:  posted by Perry Lowell, April 1993 from Good Food magazine,
September 1987

This recipe gets 30% or less of its calories from fat. Not a low
sodium recipe.

Makes 6 servings.

1.  Rinse beans and place in large, heavy saucepan.  Peel 5 cloves
garlic and add whole cloves to beans.  Add bay leaf, salt pork cube,
and enough water to cover.  Heat to boiling.  Reduce heat to low and
simmer covered, stirring occasionally, until beans are tender, about
55 minutes. Add more water if needed to keep beans covered.  Remove
and discard bay leaf and salt pork.  Let beans cool slightly, then
transfer beans with garlic and cooking liquid to food processor.
Process until coarsely pureed. (Beans can also be pureed in batches
in blender or mashed with fork against the side of pan.)  Transfer
puree to large Dutch oven or other heavy pot. Add tomatoes and stir
to combine.

2.  Trim crust from bread and coarsely crumble in food processor or
by hand (6-7 cups).  Stir bread into bean puree.

3.  Finely mince remaining 3 cloves garlic.  Heat oil in large
skillet over medium-high heat.  Add garlic, carrots, onion, cabbage,
and celery; cook, stirring frequently, 5 minutes, but do not allow
vegetables to brown. Reduce heat to very low, cover skillet with
tight-fitting lid, and sweat vegetables 15 minutes.  Stir vegetables
into bean mixture.

4.  Cover pot and simmer soup covered over low heat 45 minutes.
Check soup occasionally and thin with chicken broth as needed.  Just
before serving, stir in spinach and heat through.  Serve hot, passing
grated Parmesan cheese.

310
Nutrition Information per Serving:
40 g carbohydrates 10 g fat (29% of calories) 658 mg sodium

