Title: Sourdough Starter and Bread
Categories: Sourdough, Bread, Breadmaker
Yield: 1 servings
2 c  Bread flour
1 pk Yeast
-MARY GEORGE   (GVJN88B)
2 c  Skim milk
Place milk in a glass container and allow to stand at room
temperature for 24 hours. Stir in flour and yeast. Leave uncovered in
a warm place for 2-5 days, depending on how long it takes it to
bubble and sour. If it starts to dry out, stir in enough tepid water
to bring it back to the original consistency. Once it has a good sour
aroma and is full of bubbles, it is ready to use. Try to maintain
about 1 and 1/2 cups of starter. Each time part of the starter is
used,

replenish with a mixture of equal parts milk and flour. Leave at room
temperature several hours or overnight, or until it begins to fill
with bubbles. Then cover and store in refrigerator. Starter is best
if used at least once a week. If starter isn't, used for 2 or 3
weeks, spoon out and discard about half and replenish as described.
Given attention, a starter becomes more flavorful with age. Starter
can be frozen if it is not to be used for several weeks. This will
slow down yeast action and should be left at room temperature for 24
hours after thawing. Sourdough Bread: 2/3 cup skim milk 1 cup
sourdough starter 3 cups bread flour 2 Tbs.sugar 2 tsp. lite salt 1 &
1/2 tsp. yeast 2 Tbs. liquid Butter Buds Combine above thoroughly
(using half of the flour) and let stand uncovered to ferment
overnight in a warm place. Next morning, after the mixture has risen
and fallen, stir down any crust that may have formed. Add the rest of
the flour. When thoroughly mixed, turn out onto a board covered with
a little flour so it won't stick. Shape dough into 2 loaves, put into
bread pans, brush lightly with liquid Butter Buds, and let rise
covered until almost doubled in size. Bake in a pre-heated 400F. oven
45-50 minutes. Note: This recipe works GREAT in a bread machine.
Simply put all of the ingredients in the machine, adding the dry
ingredients first. Yields: 2 loaves (24 slices)
Per slice Fat: 0.21g Calories: 96 Cholesterol:0.42 mg
Carbohydrate:19.7g Protein:2.89g Sodium:10.3mg This was taken from Pam
Mycoskie's book BUTTER BUSTERS I would highly recommend this book to
anyone who is watching their weight and who is on a heart diet.

