Title: Sun-Dried Tomaotes & Roasted Peppers in Garli
Categories: Vegetable, Holiday
Yield: 1 recipes
MMMMM-------------------------BILLS20086------------------------------
Fruity extra-virgin olive
Oil
Basil leaves
Large ripe tomatoes
Red or green bell peppers
Peeled whole garlic cloves
This vibrantly colored and flavored combination can be made in any
quantity.  It's great to have on hand for adding to sandwiches,
homemade pizzas, salads, frittatas, and omelets, or for serving as a
condiment with thinly sliced flank steak or grilled tuna, bluefish,
or swordfish. It also makes a beautiful gift. Tomatoes can be
"sun-dried" by placing them on a rack-lined pan under the hot sun for
about 2 days, but the oven-drying method below is a lot easier. 1.
Wash and dry the tomatoes and cut them into eighths lengthwise. Using
a small spoon, scoop out the seeds and juice. Place a wire rack on a
baking sheet and arrange the tomatoes on the rack, skin side up.
Allow the tomatoes to drain excess juice for about 1 hour. 2.  Set
the oven on the warm setting (the temperature should be about 150~).
Transfer the rack to a clean baking sheet and place inthe oven. Dry
the tomatoes, turning them every few hours with a spatula, until they
are leathery, a about 12 hours. Remove them from the oven and allow
them to cool on the rack. 3. To roast the peppers, first preheat the
boiler and then cut the peppers into halves lengthwise and see them.
Place the peppers skin side up on a baking sheet and broil them,
placing them as close as possible to the heat, until the skin chars.
4. Immediately transfer the peppers to a brown paper bag and close
the bag, trapping the steam. When the peppers are cool, about 5
minutes, rub off the skins and cut the peppers into 1/2-inch wide
strips. 5. Have ready sterilized pint jars and the garlic and basil.
Arrange a single layer of tomato strips in the bottom of each jar,
followed by a layer of pepper strips. Add a garlic clove and a few
basil leaves, keeping the garlic and basil against the side of the
jar so they show.  Continue layering until all the jars are almost
filled but not tightly packed. 6. Carefully pour oil into the jars
until about half filled.  Tilt the jars and tap them so the oil seeps
down, filling any air bubbles and covering the vegetables completely.
Add more oil, covering the vegetables and leaving a 1/8-inch space at
the top of the jars, and seal. Store in a cool, dark place for at
least a week before using and no longer than 3 months.

