Title: The Great Gluten Turkey, Part One
Categories: Vegetarian
Yield: 10 servings
1 ts Tarragon
1 ts Paprika
1 ts Rosemary
2 ts Sage
2 ts Celery seed
2 ts Thyme
2 ts Garlic powder
2 ts Onion powder
---- Great Glutten Dressing
2 tb Margarine
1    Large onion, chopped
2    Stalks celery, chopped
6 oz Mushrooms, sliced
1 1/2 lb Bread crumbs
1 1/2 ts Sage
1 1/2 ts Marjoram
1 1/2 ts Thyme
1 ts Salt
1 c  Stock
----- Gravey For "Turkey"
2 ts Margarine
2 1/2 tb Flour
1 c  Reserved gluten stock
-from "turkey" recipe
1 tb White wine
Several dashes soy sauce
1 tb Light Yeast Flovoring
-see recipe, optional
10 lb Whole wheat flour
-made into gluten
-use approx 14
-cups water or 8
-cups vital wheat
-gluten flour 6
-cups water
1/3 c  Light yeast flavoring
-1/2 cup if using vital
-wheat gluten
1    Yard cheese cloth
2/3 c  Light yeast flavoring
-see recipe
1 ga Water
1/3 c  Margarine
1/3 c  White wine
2    Round circles chinese bean
-curd sheet (yuba) or enough
-smaller squares to cover
-"turkey" in 2 - 3 layers
8 c  Stuffing of choice
-see recipe
------ Light Yeast Flavoring
1 c  Yeast flakes
1 tb Salt
1/2 ts Ginger
1/2 ts Turmeric
1 ts Black pepper
1 ts Marjoram
THE GREAT GLUTEN TURKEY

From "The Now and Zen Epicure" by Miyoko Nishimoto ( The Book
Publishing Company $17.95).  This faux turkey takes a bit of work but
will surely cause comment at the table.  The skin is made from a soy
product called "Yuba".  It can be purchased in fragile, dry sheets at
Japanese food stores, or frozen at some Chinese markets under the
name "bean curd sheet" or "bean curd skin".

The yuba must be soaked and reconstituted to a soft, pliable texture
before using.  It is best to put individual sheets between wet towels
until they turn soft and white in color.  They are then ready to use.

Using either wheat flour or vital wheat gluten flour, make gluten
according to the recipe.  Roll it out into a rectangle approximately
15 inches long and 8 to 10 inches wide.  Sprinkle with 1/3 cup yeast
flavoring (unless you've added it in with your vital wheat gluten).
Roll it up lengthwise. Spread out the cheesecloth and place the
glutten roll in the middle. Wrap the sides of the cloth around the
glutten roll first, then tie the ends together.  It should be wrapped
fairly loosely so that the gluten can expand a little while cooking
but not so loose that it expands too much and becomes too soft and
spongy in texture.

Place the roll in a large pot.  Pour over it the gallon of water and
the remaining 2/3 cup yeast flavoring.  Cover bring to a boil, turn
down the heat and simmer for 1 1/2 hours.  This process can be done
up to two days before serving.

Prepare the stuffing of your choice.  Remove the gluten roll from the
stock, saving the stock for gravy.  Untie and remove the cheesecloth.
Unroll the "turkey" and fill it with the stuffing, or mound the
stuffing on a large greased baking sheet and place the gluten around
it.  Place the stuffed gluten on a large greased baking sheet.

Reconstitute the yuba as mentioned before, by soaking for 5 minutes in
water in a flat, shallow dish or between layors of wet towels.  It
will turn white and be pliable but will still be fragile.  Cover the
"turkey" with two to three layers of yuba.  Melt the margarine and
brush the entire "turkey" with some of it.  Pour the wine into the
remaining margarine: this will be used for basting while baking.  If
desired, 2 tablespoons of the yeast flavoring can be added to the
margarine-wine mixture to give it an even more authentic flavor.
continued, see part two

