Title: Whoopee Pies
Categories: Chocolate, Snack, Cake/cookie, Dessert
Yield: 6 servings
2 ts Vanilla Extract
FILLING:
1/2 c  Butter, Softened (1 Stick)
7 1/2 oz Marshmallow Creme (1 Jar)
3/4 c  Confectioners' Sugar
1/4 c  Solid White Vegetable
-Shortening
1/2 ts Vanilla Extract
1 c  Sugar
1/2 c  Solid White Vegetable
-Shortening
2 c  Unbleached Flour
1/2 c  Unsweetened Cocoa Powder
1 1/2 ts Baking Soda
1 ts Salt
1 c  Milk
Yield:  About 20 "Pies"

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F.  Grease 3 or 4 baking sheets and
set aside.

TO MAKE THE PIES:

Beat the sugar and shortening in the large bowl of an electric mixer
until well blended.  Mix the flour, cocoa, baking soda and salt in a
medium-sized bowl with a wire whisk until light and thoroughly
combined. (Using the wire whisk to blend the dry ingredients, in this
case, makes sifting unnecessary.)  With the electric mixer running on
low speed, add the flour mixture and milk alternately to the sugar
mixture, starting and ending with the flour mixture, beating well
after each addition. beat in the vanilla.

Drop the batter by heaping measuring TBLS. 2 inches apart on the
prepared baking sheets.  (The little cakes will be about 2 1/2 inches
in diameter after baking)  You should have about 40 cakes.  Bake for
15 minutes or until cakes spring back when touched lightly.  Remove
to wire racks to cool.

TO MAKE THE FILLING:

In a large bowl, combine the butter, marshmallow creme, sugar,
shortening and vanilla.  Beat for 2 minutes, using an electric mixer
set on high speed, until light and fluffy.

ASSEMBLY:

Place about 1 TBS of filling on the flat sides of half the cakes. Top
with the remaining cakes and press together so that the filling
squashes out the sides a little.

NOTE:

Because of all the butter in the filling, these pies should not be
held at room temperature indefinitely.  Pies that are not to be eaten
soon after baking should be wrapped in plastic film and refrigerated
or frozen for future use.

From Comfort Food by Holly Garrison  Copyright 1988

