Title: Guvec or Turlu - Vegetable Casserole
Categories: Ethnic, Casseroles
Yield: 6 servings
1/2 c  Olive oil
3 sm Onions; sliced
2    Garlic cloves; crushed
1/4 c  Chopped parsley
Freshly ground black pepper
1/2 c  Water
2 lg Eggplants
Salt
4 sm Zucchini
3 sm Sweet green peppers
250 g  Okra; optional
250 g  Green beans
4 sm Tomatoes, ripe, peeled
Oven temperature: 180 C (350 F) Cooking time: 1-1/2 to 2 hours

Remove stem from eggplant, wash well then peel off 1 cm (1/2 inch) strips
of skin lengthwise at intervals giving a striped effect.  Cut long
eggplants in 1 cm (1/2 inch) slices; oval eggplant should be quartered
lengthwise, then cut into chunky pieces.  Spread eggplant on a tray and
sprinkle liberally with salt.  Leave for 30 minutes, then pat dry with
paper towels.

Trim zucchini and cut into 4 cm (1-1/2 inch) pieces.  Remove stem and seeds
from peppers and quarter.  Wash, trim and (if desired) de-fuzz okra. Soak
in vinegar to remove slime.  Drain.

String beans if necessary and slit in half (French cut).  Slice tomatoes.

Heat half the oil in a frying pan and fry eggplant until lightly browned.
Remove to a plate - do not drain.

Add remaining oil to a pan, add sliced onions and fry gently until
transparent.  Stir in garlic, cook 1 minute, then remove pan from heat.

Place a layer of eggplant in the base of a casserole dish.  Top with some
of the zucchini, peppers and beans.  Spread some onion mixture on top and
cover with tomato slices.  Sprinkle with salt, pepper and some of the
parsley.  Repeat until all ingredients are used, reserving some tomato
slices and parsley.

Place prepared okra on top if used and cover with last of tomato. Sprinkle
with parsley, salt and pepper and add water and oil drained from eggplant.

Cover casserole and cook in a moderate oven for 1 to 1-1/2 hours until
vegetables are tender.  Serve from casserole as an accompaniment to roast
or grilled meats or poultry.  Often this is served as a light meal on its
own; bread and peynir (feta) cheese are then served with it.

Tess Mallos, "The Complete Middle East Cookbook"

