Title: Koushari (Lentils, Macaroni and Rice in Oil)
Categories: Ethnic, Vegetarian, Rice/grains, Pasta
Yield: 6 servings
1 c  Short grain rice
2 tb Olive oil
1 c  Tomato puree
1 c  Ads iswid (brown lentils)
Water
Salt
1 c  Small macaroni noodles
---------------------------------TA'LEYA II---------------------------------
1    Garlic clove (or more)
-- finely chopped
2 lg Onions
1/4 c  Olive oil
This is classed as an 'oil' dish by Coptic Egyptians and is prepared during
periods of fasting when animal products cannot be taken.  You may cook the
lentils, macaroni and rice simultaneously in 3 pots, or if, like me, you
like to keep pots to a minimum, use the method given.  This is the way they
prepare it in Egypt anyway.

Place lentils in a sieve and wash well under running water.  Place in a
large pot and add 3 cups water and 1 teaspoon salt.  Bring to the boil,
then simmer for 1 hour until tender but still intact.  Drain and keep
aside.

Clean same pot and add 4 cups water.  Bring to the boil, add 2 teaspoons
salt and the macaroni.  Stir constantly until water returns to the boil and
cook, uncovered, for 15 minutes until tender.  Stir occasionally. Drain and
keep aside.  Clean pot again and dry.

Wash rice well in sieve under running water and drain.  Heat oil in pot and
fry rice over medium heat for 2-3 minutes.  Add 2 cups water and 1 teaspoon
salt and bring to the boil, stirring occasionally.  Cover and simmer over
low heat for 15 minutes or until tender.  Leave covered off the heat for 5
minutes for grains to separate.

Prepare the ta'leya (directions below), add tomato puree and bring to the
boil.

Add lentils and macaroni to cooked rice and toss together lightly with a
fork.  Pour hot ta'leya and tomato mixture on top, toss again and cover
pot.  Leave over low heat for 10 minutes.  Serve hot.

TA'LEYA: Halve peeled onions lengthwise then slice thinly to give
semicircles.  Heat olive oil in a pan, add onions and fry over medium heat
until golden brown.  Add garlic and cook a minute longer.

Source: The Complete Middle East Cookbook, by Tess Mallos Typed for you by
Karen Mintzias

