Title: Little Parcels of Trout
Categories: Fish/sea
Yield: 4 servings
3    Trout (8-9 oz ea cleaned wt)    2 1/2 oz Butter
1/2    Lemon
Fresh mint & chives
1/2 lb Courgettes
1/2 lb Carrots
1/4 lb Mangetout peas
Cut the courgettes and carrots into matchstick shapes about 1 1/2 inch long
and less than 1/4 inch wide.  Steam them, and the mangetout, but only
briefly, not enough to tenderise them fully.  Use kitchen paper to blot
surface moisture from the partially cooked vegetables and set aside ot
become cold.

Season the softened butter with sea salt and black pepper.  Beat in 1/2
teaspoon lemon juice and 1 tablespoon or so each chopped chives and mint.
Use some of the flavoured butter to grease sheets of greaseproof or
bakewell paper.

Clean and fillet the trout, remove any little bones and cut the flesh of
each fish into four long strips.  Lay three strips side by side down the
centre of each sheet of buttered greaseproof paper.  Dust with sea salt and
grind some pepper over the fish.  Add a squeeze of lemon butter.  Lay the
mixed vegetables on top, spreading them thinly and seasoning with salt and
pepper between layers.  Dot with the rest of the butter and, finely, add a
sprig or two of mint to each parcel.

To close the parcels, first draw two sides of the paper up over the filling
and fold into a double pleat on top.  Then "hem" the raw paper edges at the
sides by turning them over twice, and secure with staples. The parcels
should be fairly baggy.  Put each parcel on to an oeuf sur le plat dish or
space them out in large gratin dishes or on baking trays. Chill until about
1 1/2 hours before cooking, then bring back to room temperature.

To cook, bake at 400 F (200 C) gas mark 6 for about 15 minutes.  Let each
person unwrap his or her parcel at table.  Hand round bowls of new potatoes
steamed in their skins, plain undressed watercress, and Hollandaise sauce
so that everyone can help themselves.

Source: Philippa Davenport in "Country Living" (British), June 1987. Typed
for you by Karen Mintzias

