Title: Bamia (Baked Molded Okra and Beef)
Categories: Middle east, Vegetables, Beef
Yield: 4 servings
1 ts Garlic; finely chopped
6 tb Tomato puree; canned
2 c  Beef stock; fresh or canned
1 ts Salt
Black pepper; freshly ground
Lemon wedges
1 1/2 lb Okra, fresh
4 tb Butter
1 tb Butter; softened
1/2 c  Onion; finely chopped
1 lb Hamburger, lean; prefer
;chuck
Wash the fresh okra under cold running water, and with a small,
sharp knife, scrape the skin lightly to remove any surface fuzz.  Cut
1/8 inch off the stem at the narrow end of each pod.
In a heavy 10 to 12 inch skillet, melt 2 table spoons of butter over
moderate heat.  When the foam subsides, add the okra and, stirring
frequently, cook for about 5 minutes until it stops "roping," or
producing thin white threads.  with a slotted spoon, transfer the
okra to paper towels to drain.
Pour off the fat remaining in the skillet, add 2 more tablespoons of
butter and melt it over moderate heat.  Drop in the onions and cook
for 8 to 10 minutes, or until they are soft and lightly browned.  Add
the meat, mashing it with the back of the spoon to break up any
lumps, and cook until all traces of pink disappear.  stir in the
garlic, tomato puree, 1 cup of the stock, the salt and a few
grindings of pepper. Cook briskly uncovered until most of the liquid
in the pan has evaporated and the mixture is thick enough to hold its
shape almost solidly in the spoon. Remove from the heat.
Preheat the oven to 325 degrees (F).  with a pastry brush coat the
bottom and sides of a circular baking dish 7 or 8 inches in diameter
and about 3 inches deep with the tablespoons of softened butter.
spoon half the meat mixture into the casserole, smoothing and
spreading it to the edges with a spatula.  Arrange the okra over the
meat, placing the pieces closely together side by side in a spoke
like pattern with the cut ends facing out. Spread the remaining meat
mixture evenly over the okra, masking it completely, and sprinkle
over it the remaining stock.
Bring to a boil over moderate heat, cover tightly with a lid or
foil and bake in the middle of the oven for about 1 hour.  (Check the
casserole occasionally, and if the top seems dry pour in up to « cup
more stock, a few tablespoons at a time.)  Cook the bamia uncovered
for 5 minutes, then unmold it in the following fashion:  Run a long,
sharp knife around the inside edges of the casserole, place a heated
serving plate upside down over the top and, grasping the casserole
and plate together firmly, invert them.  The bamia should slide out
easily. Serve garnished with lemon wedges.

79 of 116

Source: Time Life Series: Middle Eastern Cooking  "crica  69"

MMed by: earl.cravens@salata.com
Submitted By EARL CRAVENS   On   03-11-95

