Title: Banana Bread Pudding with Rum Sauce
Categories: Desserts, Puddings
Yield: 6 servings
4 lg Eggs
1 ts Vanilla extrtact
8 oz Firm white bread slices,
-crusts trimmed and each
Slice cut into 3 strips
1/2 c  Chopped toasted pecans
-(about 2 ounces)
Rum Sauce
1/3 c  Raisins or currants
2 tb Plus 1/4 cup dark rum,
-divided
2 tb Butter (1/4 stick)
3    Bananas, peeled, halved
-crosswise, then lengthwise
5 tb Sugar, divided
2 c  Whipping cream
Combine the raisins with the 2 tablespoons of rum in a small bowl. Let
stand for 20 minutes.

Melt the butter over medium heat in a heavy large skillet.  Add the
bananas and 2 tablespoons of sugar; cook until the bananas are
tender, about 2 minutes per side.  Remove the pan from the heat.
Combine the whipping cream, eggs, vanilla extract and the remaining
1/4 cup of rum and 3 tablespoons of sugar in a medium bowl.  Whisk to
blend.

Preheat the oven to 350F.  Butter a 9x5x3-inch loaf pan.  Arrange 1/3
of the bread strips crosswise in the bottom of the prepared pan.
Arrange 6 banana slices atop the bread.  Sprinkle with half of the
raisins and half of the pecans.  Arrange 1/3 of the bread strips
crosswise on top of the bananas.  Pour half of the egg mixture over
the bread strips. Arrange the remaining 6 banana slices on top of the
bread. Sprinkle with the remaining raisins and pecans.  Arrange the
remaining bread strips crosswise atop the bananas. Pour the remaining
egg mixture over the bread strips. Press gently on the top layer to
compact. Let stand for 15 minutes.

Bake the bread pudding for about 45 minutes or until the top is
puffed and golden anda knife inserted into the center comes out
clean. Transfer to a rack and cool slightly.

Cut the bread pudding into slices and arrange on dessert plates.
Drizzle with warm Rum Sauce and serve.

Makes 6 to 8 servings.

RUM SAUCE: 1/4 cup unsalted butter (1/2 stick) 1/2 cup whipping cream
packed dark brown sugar Salt 2 Tbl dark rum
1/2 cup

Melt the butter over high heat in a heavy medium saucepan.  Add the
cream, sugar and a pinch of salt.  Bring to a boil, stirring until
the sugar dissolves.  Remove from the heat and stir in the rum.  (Can
be prepared 2 days ahead.  Cover and refrigerate.  Rewarm over low
heat, stirring constantly.)

[Reservations for Two; Jinx & Jefferson Morgan] [Bon Appetit; March
1995]

Posted by Fred Peters.

