Title: Beef Stroganoff
Categories: Main dish, Healthy
Yield: 7 servings
2 ts Granulated sugar
1 ts Dried thyme leaves
1 ts Prepared horseradish
1 lg Bay leaf
1/4 ts Black pepper
1/4 ts Salt, or to taste; optional
3/4 c  Sour cream, non-fat
-----to serve-----
1 1/2 c  Uncooked long-grain
-- white rice; or
10 oz (to 12) uncooked medium
-- non-fat noodles
Parsley sprigs for garnish
-- optional
1 lb Beef top round, trimmed
-- of all fat
1 lg Onion; finely chopped
1/2 lb Fresh mushrooms, washed,
-- trimmed & sliced
2 lg Garlic cloves; minced
2 ts Margarine, non-diet,
-- tub-style canola
-- or corn oil marg.
2 c  Beef broth, defatted
-- divided
1/4 c  Red burgundy wine
3 tb Tomato paste
1/4 c  Water
1 tb White flour
Recipe by: Skinny One-Pot Meals - ISBN 0-940625-75-X

Cut meat into very thin 2-inch-long diagonal strips.

In a large non-stick, spray -coated skillet, cook meat over
medium-high heat 6 or 7 mins or until browned. Remove meat to a
medium bowl and reserve.

In skillet, combine onion, mushrooms, gralic, margarine, and 3 Tbs
broth. Cook over medium heat, stirring, 6 to 7 mins or until onion is
tender and mushrooms have changed color. If liquid begins to
evaporate, add more broth.

Return meat to skillet, along with remaining broth and wine. Stir in
tomato paste until well combined. Bring to a boil. In a cup, stir
flour into water. Add to skillet and cook, stirring, until liquid
thickens.

Add sugar, thyme, horseradish, bay leaf, pepper, and salt, if
desired, and stir to mix well. Cover and simmer 30 mins, stirring
occasionally, or until meat is tender.

Meanwhile, cook rice or noodles according to package directions.

Reduce heat under skillet so that liquid does not boil. Stir sour
cream into broth. Heat 2 or 3 mins more.

Serve individual portions of Beef Stroganoff over rice or noodles, or
arrange on a serving platter and top with Beef Stroganoff. Garnish
with parsley sprigs if desired.

NUTRTIONAL DATA (based on 7 servings) Per serving Calories 336 Fat
2 Cholesterol (mg) 55
24 Carbohydrate (gm)
16
(gm) 6 Sat. fat (gm)
Sodium (mg) 242 Protein (gm)
44 % Calories from fat

