Title: Cabbage Rolls
Categories: Vegetables
Yield: 1 servings
28 oz Tomatoes
Salt
Pepper
Oregano
Basil
Thyme
16 oz Stewed tomatoes
1    Large head of cabbage
3    Bay leaves
2 lb Lean ground beef (or beef &
2    Large onions; chopped
1    Large bell pepper; chopped
3    Cloves garlic; minced
12 oz Tomato sauce
Separate cabbage leaves and steam over boiling water to which the bay
leaves have been added.  Steam the leaves just long enough to soften
so that they can be easily rolled. Cool and remove hard veins from
leaves. For stuffing, saute onions, pepper and garlic in a little oil
until just tender.  In a separate pan, saute meat until done. Add 2/3
of the onion mix to the meat and the other ingredients (except the 16
oz. can of stewed tomatoes). Cook and stir until mixture is reduced
and rather thick. Stuff each cabbage leaf with about 1/4 cup of meat
mixture and roll tightly. (You may have to use 2 leaves if they
aren't very big.) Place rolls in oiled pan that is small enough to
hold the rolls in shape. Mix the remaining can of stewed tomatoes
with the onion mix and add additional seasonings. I usually simmer
this for a few minutes and check the flavor. Pour this sauce over the
rolls. Cover & bake at 350 degrees for 45 minutes. Mrs. Panno's
recipe calls for the addition of day old bread, moistened and
squeezed dry. I omit the bread since this is more like a spaghetti
sauce than meat loaf mix. I usually serve these with a salad, crusty
bread and buttered potatoes (that part's not Italian,but the potatoes
go very well with it.) Sorry that there are no specific measurements
on the seasonings, but I am usually very heavy-handed with the
garlic, oregano & basil. This recipe can also be made in a casserole
form to serve a crowd, I've layered chopped cabbage,meat,cabbage &
sauce in a casserole and it works fine. If you do it this way you can
feed an army! I'm looking forward to trying the soup your way, but,
lets face it, it's almost 90 today. It'll be a while before I make
split pea soup again. Judy/Sweatin' in Richmond*TX

