Title: Carrot Fruit Cake
Categories: Cake/cookie
Yield: 1 servings
1/4 ts Ground allspice
3/4 c  Pecans, toasted
3 lg Eggs
1 1/2 c  Sugar
1 c  (2 sticks) unsalted butter,
-cut into 8 pieces, room
-temperature
2 ts Vanilla extract
2 lg Carrots, peeled, cut into
-feed tube lengths
1 tb Powdered sugar
1/2 c  Chopped dried apricots
-(about 21/2 ounces)
1/2 c  Chopped dried peaches
-(about 21/2 ounces)
1/2 c  Chopped dried Calimyrna
-figs (about 21/z ounces)
3 tb Bourbon
1 3/4 c  Sifted all purpose flour
2 ts Baking powder
2 ts Ground cinnamon
1/2 ts Salt
1/4 ts Ground nutmeg
A moist and tender dessert that will appeal to those who do not enjoy
the typical firm and dense fruitcakes. Dried apples, prunes or pears
are other delicious ingredients to use in this treat.

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 325!F. Generously
butter 1 2-cup bundt pan. Dust pan with flour.

Combine chopped fruits and bourbon in medium bowl and let stand 2
hours, stirring occasionally. (Or to microwave: Place fruits and
bourbon in 4-cup microwave-safe bowl. Cook uncovered on High until
fruit is plumped, about 20 seconds. Stir well.

Steel Knife: Place flour, baking powder, cinnamon, salt, nutmeg and
allspice in work bowl. Process to "sift," about 5 seconds. Add pecans
and chop nuts coarsely using on/off turns. Transfer to sheet of waxed
paper.

Place eggs, then 1 1/2 cups sugar into work bowl. Process until
mixture is thick and light, about 1 minute. Add butter and vanilla.
Process until mixture is fluffy, scraping down sides of work bowl as
necessary, about 1 minute. Transfer egg mixture to large bowl.

Shredding Disk: Stand carrot pieces in feed tube. Shred using firm
pressure. Mix carrots into dried fruit mixture. Add 1/4 Cup dry
ingredients and toss to coat, separating fruit pieces. Stir fruit
mixture gently into egg mixture. Fold in remaining dry ingredients.

Transfer batter to prepared bundt pan. Bake until tester inserted near
center of cake comes out clean, about 50 minutes. Cool cake in pan on
rack 10 minutes. Turn cake out onto rack and cool completely. (Can be
prepared 2 days ahead. Wrap and store at room temperature.) Place
cake on platter. Sift powdered sugar over and serve.

From the files of Al Rice, North Pole Alaska.    Feb 1994

