Title: CHOCOLATE GUIDE Part 1
Categories: Information, Chocolate, Godiva
Yield: 1 servings   Information and tips to help make your chocolate creations a stunning
success...

Measuring Cocoa, Confectioners' Sugar and Flour Measure these dry
ingredients by lightly spooning the ingredient into the appropriate
dry measuring cup and leveling it off with the straight edge of a
knife or spatula. Tapping the measuring cup will result in an
inaccurate measure.

Chocolate Key:  When we test the recipes for Chocolatier we use the
nationally available brands of chocolate listed here. Be sure to
check the recipe before setting out to buy the chocolate for it - if
you use the wrong type of chocolate, all your efforts may be wasted;
certainly the results may be different.
Within the following categories, you may use the brands we name
interchangeably with only subtle differences in taste and/or texture.

Unsweetened chocolate
Baker's, Ghirardelli, Hershey's or Nestlé

Swiss dark chocolate/bittersweet chocolate
Ghirardelli, Lindt Excellence or Callebaut

Semisweet chocolate
Ghirardelli, Hershey's, Nestlé or Baker's

Semisweet chocolate chips
Ghirardelli, Hershey's, Nestlé or Baker's

Sweet chocolate
Baker's German Sweet Chocolate or Ghirardelli
Sweet Dark Chocolate

Swiss milk chocolate
Lindt Swiss Milk Chocolate

Milk chocolate chips
Baker's, Hershey's or Nestlé

White chocolate
Lindt Swiss Confectionary Bar or Nestlé Premier
White Baking Bar

White chocolate chips
Hershey's or Nestlé

Couverture/coating chocolate
It is not a brand or type of chocolate but
rather a term used to describe
professional-quality
coating chocolate with a high percentage of
cocoa
butter -- at least 32 percent and often as
high as 39
percent for good-quality couverture. The extra
cocoa
butter allows the chocolate to form a thinner
coating
shell than noncouverture chocolate: Cacao
Barry,
Carma, Ghirardelli, Lindt or Valrhôna.

Unsweetened non-alkalized cocoa powder
Hershey's, Ghirardelli or Nestlé

Unsweetened alkalized cocoa powder (Dutch processed or European
style)
Droste, Fry's, Hershey's European Style or
Poulain

How To Melt Chocolate Melting chocolate to use as a baking ingredient
for candy work or decoration requires gentle heat. Chocolate that is
overheated may scorch, lose flavor and turn coarse and grainy. Stir
melting chocolate after it has begun to liquefy. Because of the
sensitivity of milk solids to heat, milk and white chocolates should
be stirred almost constantly while dark chocolate need only be
stirred frequently during melting.

Here are two good methods for melting chocolate so that it is smooth
and glossy.

IN A MICROWAVE OVEN

Place coarsely chopped chocolate in a microwave-safe container and
microwave at MEDIUM (50 percent power) for 1 1/2 to 4 minutes, until
the chocolate turns shiny. Remove the container from the microwave
and stir the chocolate until completely melted. Stir milk and white
chocolates after about 1 1/2 minutes. Because of their milk proteins,
they need to be stirred sooner than dark chocolate. (If overheated,
these chocolates may become grainy.)

IN A DOUBLE BOILER

Place coarsely chopped chocolate in the top of a double boiler over
hot, not simmering, water. Melt the chocolate, stirring until smooth.
Remove the top part of the double boiler from the bottom.

End of part 1.
Submitted By CHARLENE DEERING   On   03-13-95

