Title: Christmas Pudding
Categories: Desserts, Holiday
Yield: 8 servings
1/2 ts Ground Nutmeg
1/2 ts Salt
3 oz White Breadcrumbs
4 oz Vegetable Suet
4 oz Molasses Sugar
2    Eggs, Beaten
1/4 pt Stout
1/4 pt Brandy
5 tb Brandy
1    Sprig Holly
4 oz Minced Prunes
6 oz Currants
6 oz Seedless Raisins
6 oz Golden Sultanas
1 oz Flaked Almonds
Zested Rind of 1 Orange
Zested Rind of 1 Lemon
Juice of 1 Lemon
4 oz Plain Flour
1/2 ts Ground Cloves
1/2 ts Ground Cinnamon
1. In one mixing bowl, mix together the minced prunes, currants,
seedless raisins, sultanas, flaked almonds, orange and lemon zest and
lemon juice. In a second bowl, seive the flour, spices, and salt,
then fold in the white breadcrumbs, suet, and sugar.

2. Make a well in the centre of the dry ingredients, then mix in the
fruit mixture and mix until thoroughly incorporated. (For a
traditional touch get each member of the family to have a stir and
make a secret wish). Cover bowl with clear wrap and chill overnight.

3. The next day, grease a 2.5lb pudding basin. Stir 0.25 pint of
brandy in to the pudding mixture and spoon mixture into pudding
basin. Cover with a sheet of baking parchment, pleated in the middle,
then a layer of foil. Secure with string, making a handle on each
side.

4. Place pudding in a large saucepan and pour in sufficient water to
come halfway up sides of basin. Remove pudding and bring water to the
boil. Carefuly lower pudding into boiling water, tuck in string, then
cover pan and steam for 4.5 hours. NOTE: IT IS IMPORTANT TO TOP UP
WITH BOILING WATER AS NECESSARY.

5. Remove pudding from saucepan and allow it to cool completely. Cut
away the string, then uncover basin and wrap tightly in fresh baking
parchment and foil. Store in a cool dry place. The pudding will have
matured and be ready to cook for serving in one month, and it will
keep for up to a year.

To Serve:

Reheat pudding by steaming for two hours, as described in
:
steps 3 and 4. Turn on to a warmed serving plate and decorate. To
flame before serving, warm 5 tb of brandy in a small pan until just
simmering. Remove holy, then pour brandy over hot pudding and light
carefully with a match. Serve with brandy butter.
Submitted By IAN MAY   On   03-11-95

