Title: Cookware: How To Care For Your Wood Cutting Board
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM-------------------WOODEN CUTTING BOARDS------------------------
Recent scientific studies by the University Of Wisconsin-Madison, Food
Research Institute have concluded tests which proved that bacteria die
quickly on wood, but thrives on glass and plastic cutting boards.
Three minutes after wooden cutting boards were coated with various
bacteria, 99.9% of the bacteria were dead. However the same tests on
plastic showed baterica living and thriving, even after placed in a
dishwasher.

Care Of Cutting Board: After each use, scrub the board with detergent
and water. DRY IMMEDIATELY! Rub a little oil such as mineral oil,
vegetable oil or sunflower oil on all surfaces and put away. Mineral
oil works best as it has a long lasting effect which keeps boards
from drying out. Never soak your board or put it in a dishwasher.
**DO NOT USE** furniture oils, lemon oils, tung oil, Danish oil or
Murphy's Oil soap as they may become rancid or tacky. To freshen a
board, rub a citrus wedge over the surface from time to time.

Storing: Store the board on edges or ends or if stored flat, turn
several times a week. This lets board breath evenly on all sides.
Never store your board adjacent to a heat source.

New Boards: There are two enemies of wood, water (soaking) and drying
out. If you want your boards to last years the secret is in the
sealing of the end grain on the ends of the board and the end grain
of juice groves.

Use a small bottle of mineral oil (16 oz.) and a 2" x 2" square of
paraffin (canning wax) or beeswax, shave it into the mineral oil.
Heat the oil and wax in a microwave for 6-8 minutes until the wax
dissolves into the oil. If you do not have a microwave use a double
boiler. Never met paraffin over a burner as **PARAFFIN IS
FLAMMABLE**. When in solution, apply to all board surfaces with hand
or rag while warm. Take the block of paraffin or beeswax and rub it
into the ends and groves of your board. Repeat every six months or
so. If you neglect your board and you notice a small crack starting
on the end, fill crack with wax.

Restoring a board: An old board can be brought back to life. Wash the
surface and let the water remain on the surface for 15 minutes to
raise the grain. Take a single edge razor blade and pass over board
surface perpendicular to the board surface, scraping with the grain
to remove raised grain. This is faster than sanding and will leave
the board very smooth, if it is a maple board. Seal board as above.

REMEMBER: A little soap and water to clean, wipe dry, oil frequently.

POSTED BY: Jim Bodle 12/92, 11/94
Submitted By DOROTHY FLATMAN   On   03-02-95

