Title: Coucou Seebzamini (Thick Potato and Onion Pancake)
Categories: Middle east, Side dish, Vegetables
Yield: 4 servings
3/4 c  Olive oil
1 md Onion; peeled and cut into
;1/8 inch slices
4    Egg
3 md Potato; about 1 lb., prefer
;baking potatoes
1/4 ts Turmeric
1/2 ts Salt
Black pepper; freshly ground
Drop the potatoes into a saucepan filled with enough boiling water
to cover them completely and boil them briskly until they are tender.
Drain the potatoes, peel them and in a large bowl mash them to a
smooth puree with a fork, potato masher or electric mixer.  Beat in
the turmeric, salt and a few grindings of pepper and set them aside.
In a heavy 10 inch skillet, heat « cup of the olive oil over
moderate heat until a light haze forms above it.  Add the onion and,
stirring frequently, cook for about 10 minutes, or until the slices
are deeply browned.  With a slotted spoon, transfer the onion to the
bowl of mashed potatoes.  Beat in the eggs one at a time, then taste
for seasoning.
Pour the remaining 1/4 cup of olive oil into the skillet and heat
over high heat until a light haze forms above it.  Add the potato-egg
mixture and spread it evenly to the sides of the pan with the back of
the spoon or a spatula.  cover tightly, reduce the heat to low and
cook for 6 to 8 minutes, or until the outside edges of the pancake
are firm but the center moist.
Run a knife around the circumference of the pan to free the
pancake, then cut it into 4 pie shaped wedges.  cook uncovered over
moderate heat for 1 or two minutes, shaking the pan back and forth
gently.
When the center of the pancake is firm but still slightly moist,
cover the skillet with a flat plate and, grasping the plate and
skillet firmly together, invert them and turn the pancake out on the
plate. Then carefully slide it back into the pan.  cover again and
cook for 4 to 5 minutes more over moderate heat to brown the
underside. Slide out of the pan to a serving platter and serve either
hot or at room temperature.

70 of 116

Time Life Series: Middle Eastern Cooking,  "circa  69"

MMed by: earl.cravens@salata.com
Submitted By EARL CRAVENS   On   02-25-95

