Title: Craig Claiborne's Corned Beef Hash
Categories: Beef
Yield: 8 servings
1    Egg
1    Egg yolk
1 ts Worcestershire sauce
Salt and freshly ground
. pepper to taste
8 ts Butter or vegetable oil
2 3/4 lb Corned beef
3 ea Potatoes (about 1-1/2 lbs.)
Salt to taste
1 T  Butter
1 c  Onions, finely chopped
1/2 c  Green pepper, finely chopped
Put the corned beef in a kettle and add water to cover to a depth of
about 2 inches.  Bring to a boil and let simmer uncovered 1 hour.
Cover tightly and continue cooking 3 hours.

Meanwhile, put the potatoes in a saucepan and add cold water to
cover; add salt.  Cook until almost tender but relatively firm, 20 to
30 minutes. The potatoes must not be overcooked or they will not cube
properly. Drain and cool.  Peel the potatoes and cut them into very
small dice. There should be about 3 and one-half cups.

When the corned beef is cooked, remove and let cool.

Heat the butter in a skillet and add the onions and green pepper.
Cook, stirring, until wilted.

Trim away and discard the fat from the corned beef.  Cut the corned
beef into thin slices and cut the slices into small cubes.  There
should be about 5 cups.  Put the cubed meat into a mixing bowl and
add the potatoes and onions.  Add the egg, egg yolk, Worcestershire,
salt and pepper and blend thoroughly with the fingers.  Press down
with the fingers to make the mass compact.  Cover with clear plastic
wrap and refrigerate overnight.

Shape the mixture into 8 portions of more or less equal size.  (Or,
if you prefer, heat butter or oil in a non-stick skillet and cover
the bottom with hash.)  Flatten each portion into patties.  Heat 1
teaspoon butter or oil for each patty to be cooked.  Cook 2 or 3
minutes on 1 side, or until brown.  Turn the patty and cook 2 or 3
minutes on the other side, or until brown.

You can serve each patty topped with a poached egg, if desired.

From Gannett News Service, as seen in "The Olympian," 3/8/95.

Typed for you by Iris Grayson
Submitted By IRIS GRAYSON   On   03-13-95

