Title: Cristel's Beef Strips with Sweet & Hot Sauce
Categories: Beef, Main dish
Yield: 4 servings
1    Egg
1 c  Dry bread crumbs
1/4 ts Ginger
Dash of pepper
1 lb Round steak
2 tb Water
1 ts Salt
1/3 c  Cooking oil
MMMMM---------------------SWEET & HOT SAUCE--------------------------
2 1/2 tb Sugar
2 1/2 tb Soy sauce
1/4 ts Hot pepper sauce
1/3 c  Catsup
2 1/2 tb Vinegar
1/4 ts Dry mustard
Recipe Source: Cristel Morton, London, Ontario, Canada.

Trim fat from steak.  Cut steak into 3/4 inch wide strips.

Beat the egg in a bowl with water until well mixed.

In a separate bowl, mix bread crumbs, salt, ginger and pepper.

Dip strips in egg mixture, then roll through crumb mixture. Arrange
strips on a baking sheet *SEE NOTE BELOW* Chill in refrigerator at
least 15 minutes *SEE NOTE BELOW*

Depending on the size of the steak and the thickness of the cut, more
egg and crumb mixture may be necessary.

Heat oil in a large fry pan until hot. Oil should be about 1/4 inch
deep in the pan. Remove strips from refrigerator and fry in oil a few
at a time for about 30 - 40 sec per side (top & bottom) turning once.
Do not overcook.

Remove strips and drain on paper towel.  Keep the strips warm.
(Placing paper towel on a cookie sheet and placing in a 200F oven
seems to work well.)

SWEET & HOT SAUCE:

Combine all ingredients for the sauce in a saucepan (or measuring
cup) and stir together well. Heat on stove top, or in microwave until
bubbly hot.

Serve beef strips with hot sauce and french fries.

NOTE: The steak can be cut and frozen so that the preparation time is
greatly reduced. After the steak is cut, roll in flour and arrange so
that the strips can be laid out to thaw in a single layer. If the
strips are still chilled when it's time to cook them, just dip into
the egg, roll in crumbs and place directly into the hot oil.  The
chilling process is to firm up the egg & crumb mixture so that they
don't fall off the meat during the frying. If the meat is already
sufficiently cold (from defrosting), the chilling in the refrigerator
is not necessary.

