Title: DARK CHOC TERRINE TWO SAUCES 2
Categories: Desserts, Chocolate, Godiva
Yield: 12 servings  Continued:

Unmold the chocolate terrine:
Cover a 9 1/2-by-5-inch cardboard rectangle with aluminum foil.
Remove
the terrine from the freezer and unwrap the pan. Dip the loaf pan
into
very hot water for 2 to 3 seconds. Wipe the sides of the pan dry.
Put
the foil-covered rectangle on top of the chocolate terrine.
Invert the
loaf pan onto the cardboard rectangle and lift off the pan.
Freeze the
still-wrapped terrine while you prepare the glaze.

Make the chocolate glaze:
Place the chocolate in a medium bowl. In a small sauce pan, heat
the
cream and corn syrup over medium heat until the mixture comes to a
boil.
Pour the hot cream mixture over the chocolate. Let stand for 30
seconds
to melt the chocolate. Gently whisk until smooth. Stir in the
vanilla.
Let cool to tepid.

Remove the plastic wrap from the chilled chocolate terrine. Place
the
terrine on a wire rack set on a baking sheet. Spoon the tepid
chocolate
glaze over the terrine, coating it completely. Let the glaze set
for 2
to 3 minutes, then return the terrine to the freezer for at least
1
hour.

Make the milk chocolate sauce:
Put the chocolate in a medium bowl. In a small saucepan, over
medium
heat, bring the half-and-half to a gentle boil. Pour the
half-and-half
over the chocolate. Let stand for 30 seconds to melt the
chocolate.
Gently whisk until smooth. Stir in the vanilla. Let cool to room
temperature. (The sauce can be prepared up to 2 days ahead and
kept
refrigerated. Rewarm in the top of a double boiler over hot, not
simmering, water -- or in a microwave on MEDIUM [50%] power.)

Make the dark chocolate sauce:
Place the chocolate in a medium bowl. In a small saucepan, heat
the
cream and corn syrup over medium heat until the mixture comes to a
boil.
Pour the hot cream mixture over the chocolate . Let stand for 30
seconds
to melt the chocolate. Gently whisk until smooth. Stir in the
vanilla.
The sauce should be served slightly warm or at room temperature.
(The
sauce can be prepared up to 2 days ahead and kept refrigerated.
Rewarm
in the top of a double boiler over hot, not simmering, water --
or in a
microwave on MEDIUM [50%] power.)

Thirty minutes before serving time, transfer the chocolate
terrine to
the refrigerator.

To serve, spoon some of the dark chocolate sauce over half of each
dessert plate. Spoon some of the milk chocolate sauce over the
other
half of each plate. With a sharp thin-bladed knife, cut the
terrine into
12 slices, wiping the blade clean between each slice. Lay the
slices on
the dessert plates.

- Judith Sutton
Submitted By CHARLENE DEERING   On   03-13-95

