Title: Domates Yemistes me Rizi (Baked Tomatoes Stuffed (see dir
Categories: Middle east, Greek, Vegetables, Rice
Yield: 6 servings
3/4 c  Tomato puree; canned
1/2 c  Parsley; finely chopped,
;prefer flat leaf parsley
2 tb Mint, fresh; finely cut or
;1 tablespoons dried mint
2 ts Garlic; finely chopped
1/4 ts Oregano; crumbled
Black pepper; freshly ground
1 1/4 c  Water
1/2 c  Rice; long/medium grain
;uncooked
6    Tomato; firm, ripe, each
;about 3 inches in diameter
2 ts Salt
6 tb Olive oil
1/2 c  Onion; finely chopped
Name; Baked Tomatoes Stuffed with Rice

In a small saucepan, bring 1 cup of water to a boil over high heat.
Pour in the rice in a slow thin stream, stir once or twice, and cook
briskly uncovered for 8 minutes, or until the rice is softened but
still somewhat resistant to the bite.  Drain the rice in a sieve and
set aside.
Cut a 1/4 inch slice off the stem ends of the tomatoes and set
aside. With a spoon, hollow out the tomatoes, remove the inner pulp
and discard the seeds.  Chop the pulp and set it aside.  Sprinkle the
tomato cavities with 1 teaspoon of salt and turn them upside down on
paper towels to drain.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees (F).  Make the stuffing in the
following fashion: In a heavy 10 to 12 inch skillet, heat the oil
over moderate heat until a light haze forms above it.  Add the onions
and, stirring frequently, cook for 5 minutes, or until they are soft
and transparent but not brown.  Stir in the rice, tomato pulp, « cup
of the tomato puree, the parsley, mint, garlic, oregano, the
remaining teaspoon of salt and a few grindings  of pepper.  Stirring
constantly, cook briskly until most of the liquid in the pan
evaporates and the mixture is thick enough to hold ts shape almost
solidly in the spoon.
Arrange the tomatoes, cut side up, in a baking dish large enough to
hold them side by side.  Fill the tomatoes with the stuffing, packing
it in firmly, and cover each tomato with its reserved top.  Combine
the remaining 1/4 of tomato puree with the remaining 1/4 cup of water
and pour the mixture around the tomatoes.  Bake uncovered in the
middle of the oven for 20 minutes, basting the tomatoes once or twice
with the cooking liquid. Cool to room temperature and serve the
tomatoes directly from the baking dish.

81 of 116

Source: Time Life Series: Middle Eastern Cooking  "crica  69"

MMed by: earl.cravens@salata.com
Submitted By EARL CRAVENS   On   03-11-95

