Title: Frozen Chocolate Chip Peach Ice Cream Loaf
Categories: Chocolate
Yield: 10 servings
2 tb Grand marnier/other orange-f
-- liqueur
3/4 c  (+ 2 tbs) sugar
3/4 c  Unsweetened cocoa powder
1/2 c  Heavy cream
4 tb Butter
1 lb Loaf pound cake
1 qt Toasted almond ice cream
-- slightly softened
2 c  Peaches, peeled firm, ripe f
-- chopped
1 c  Semisweet chocolate chips,
-- miniature
Recipe by: 365 Great Chocolate Desserts - ISBN 0-06-016537-5
Preparation Time: 0:40 1. Cut pound cake lengthwise into 6 even
slices or layers. Line bottom of a 9 x 5-inch glass loaf dish with a
strip of plastic wrap so ends extend 2 inches over ends of pan. Using
4 cake slices, line dish completely with cake as follows: Place 1
cake slice in bottom of dish to cover. Place 1 cake slice along each
long side of dish to cover. Cut 1 cake slice crosswise in half and
place each half on short sides of dish.

2. Working quickly, in a medium bowl, combine ice cream, peaches,
chocolate chips, and Grand Marnier; mix well. Spoon half of ice cream
mixture evenly into cake-lined dish. Top with 1 of remaining cake
slices, then spread evenly with remaining ice cream mixture. Top with
remaining cake slice. If any cake extends over top of dish, trim off
so cake is even with top of dish. Cover and freeze until firm, 6
hours or overnight.

3. When cake is firm, prepare glaze. In a small saucepan, combine
sugar, cocoa, and cream. Whisk until blended; mixture will be stiff.
Place over medium heat and whisk constantly until mixture boils. Boil
1 to 2 mins. Remove from heat; whisk in butter. Cool to room
temperature, until mixture thickens but is still spreadable.

4. Cut a rectangle of sturdy cardboard 1/2 to 1 inch larger all
around than bottom of cake. Cover tightly with foil. To unmold,
invert firm cake onto foil-lined cardboard. Return cake to freezer 10
to 15 mins. Remove from freezer and peel off plastic wrap. Spread
cool glaze evenly over top and sides of cake. Return to freezer;
freeze until glaze is set, about 45 mins. Then cover with plastic
wrap and freeze until serving time. Use within 1 month. With sharp
knife, cut into slices to serve.

