Title: Fruitful Salads
Categories: Salads, Vegetables, Fruit, Mixes, Mom's
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM----------------SOURCE: MY MOTHER'S RECIPE C---------------------
-70's
Newspapers from the 40's to
MMMMM--------------------FROM : SALLIE KREBS-------------------------
The fruit salad, most colorful member of its clan, is especially nice
served with its perfect partner, cheese. FRUIT SALAD BOWLS FROSTED
FRUIT. In salad bowl lined with crisp salad greens, heap 3 or 4
fruits (fresh, canned, or frozen), such as peach or pear slices,
pineapple chunks, grapefruit sections, grapes, strawberries or
blueberries. Top with scoops of sherbet. Pass whipped cream. AMBROSIA
SALAD. In center of shallow bowl, set small glass bowl of Coconut
Cream-Cheese Topping: Around it, arrange following fruits in groups.
Tuck in water cress. Chunks of fluted banana dipped in lemon juice
Watermelon scoops Cherries stuffed with almonds, walnuts, or pecans
Pineapple or cantaloupe cubes Strawberries or raspberries Seedless
grapes PEACH BOWL. Toss together chilled canned sliced peaches, lots
of sliced celery, cut-up mint, a hint of chives, shredded lettuce,
Two-Fruit French Dressing. SUMMER CITRUS. Heap 2 cans drained orange
and grapefruit sections in bowl. Circle with scoops of watermelon and
cantaloupe. Pour 1 cup juice from citrus fruit over all. Tuck in
sprigs of mint here and there. Pass bowl of Mint Sour-Cream Dressing.
FRUIT TOSS. To mixed salad greens, add generous amount of one of the
following colorful fruit combinations; add 2 tablesp. dressing per
serving. 1. Fresh or canned pineapple chunks, pear slices or peach
slices, seedless grapes, blueberries, and Superb French Dressing. 2.
Grapes (red, white, and blue) and Lorenzo French Dressing. 3. Apple
slices, peanuts, orange sections, and Bombay French Dressing. 4.
Avocado slices, grapefruit sections or seedless grapes, and Roquefort
French Dressing. 5. Strawberries, fresh or canned grapefruit or
orange sections, grated orange rind, Manhattan French Dressing or
Creamy French Dressing.

Submitted By SALLIE KREBS   On   03-05-95

