Title: Fruit-Buffet Setups
Categories: Fruit, Mixes, Mom's, Salads
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM----------------SOURCE: MY MOTHER'S RECIPE C---------------------
-70's
Newspapers from the 40's to
MMMMM--------------------FROM : SALLIE KREBS-------------------------
CRISSCROSS. On tray, arrange overlapping orange slices to form X.
Place different fruit (below) in each quarter. Pass Tart 'n' Tasty
Fruit Dressing. . Blackberries, blueberries, or strawberries . Melon
balls . Sliced bananas or peaches . Grapefruit sections and sharp
cheese balls


WALDORF TRAY. Cover rectangular tray with crisp greens. Heap
Winter-Pear Waldorf Salad in center- tuck red-skinned-apple slices
into salad. Surround with mounds of grapefruit and orange sections
and seedless grapes. Make 3-decker sandwiches of chicken and
cranberry sauce; cut each into 4 triangles. Arrange, with cut sides
up, in corners of tray. Serve with Honey French Dressing.

PIN WHEEL. Arrange wedges of juicy cantaloupe, spoke-fashion, on tray.
Heap grapes in center. Between some spokes, tuck strawberries with
hulls, or cherries with stems, and peach halves. Between others,
place mounds of chive cream cheese fluffed with milk. Garnish with
bananas rolled in chopped nuts. Tuck in water cress here and there.
Serve with Roquefort Mayonnaise.

THREE TIER. Use a Lazy Susan (or set cakestand on round tray; then
place low compote on top of it). On bottom tier, arrange salad greens
and 4 or 5 fruits in groups. On second tier, place assortment of
sandwiches- brown bread with cottage or cream cheese, whole-wheat
bread with deviled ham, raisin bread with orange butter. On top tier
place salted nuts dates stuffed with cream or cottage cheese and
dipped in coconut, candied orange rind. Pass Fruit French Dressing.

SUMMER SETUP. On tray, arrange five big nests of lettuce to form oval.
Fill each with one of these fruits: . Orange slices . Melon balls .
Pear or peach slices . Pitted Bing cherries . Seedless or seeded
grapes Slice fluted banana into rounds; place in center. Tuck salted
almonds here and there. Pass Coconut Cream-Cheese Topping and date
muffins.

FOUR-QUARTER TIME. Cover tray with chicory and water cress. Place
bowl of Fluffy Mayonnaise in center. Radiate finger sandwiches of
pimento cheese or deviled ham and whole-wheat bread in overlapping
rows from bowl to form X. Fill sections with:

1. Boston lettuce

2. Peach halves, filled with cottage cheese, crowned with walnut
halves

3. Chilled pear halves, topped with chili or cranberry sauce

4. Pineapple and tuna chunks tossed with French dressing


MELON MEDLEY. In center front of rectangular tray, heap pitted Bing
cherries. In center rear, heap seedless grapes. On one side, arrange
half-moon wedges of pared honeydew, fan-fashion, then row of
Edam-cheese slices. On other side, place cantaloupe, then ham slices.
Pass rye-bread-and-lettuce sandwiches. Serve with Manhattan French
Dressing.


DELLA ROBBIA. Peel and slice 3 oranges. Slice 3 cored unpared apples
1/4" thick- some crosswise, some lengthwise. Slice 2 unpared pears
lengthwise. Halve and core 2 more pears; spread rounded side of each
half with softened cream cheese; dot with halved seeded grapes to
resemble grape bunch. On tray, assemble sliced fruits, in wreath
form, in apple, orange, pear, and grape-bunch shapes. Tuck tips of
romaine leaves here and there. Pass Mint French Dressing and toasted
tuna sandwiches.

SUPPER TRAY. Cover tray with salad greens. Down center, place three
mounds of fruit: avocado slices, red-skinned-apple wedges, orange
sections. In opposite corners, place salami-and-cream-cheese
triangles (stack salami slices 1" high, fill with cream cheese; cut
into triangles). Add ripe olives, salted almonds. Serve with Swiss
Mayonnaise.

MERRY-GO-ROUND. Combine 2 6-oz. pkg. chive cream cheese with 1 glass
blue-cheese spread; chill. Roll into large ball; then sprinkle with
chopped nuts. Set in center of tray; surround with crisp crackers;
circle with these fruits: . Apple and pear slices . Melon wedges .
Pineapple chunks . Seedless or seeded grapes Tuck water cress and
chicory around fruit. Pass Piquant Sour-Cream Dressing.

SALAD BAR. Set up make-it-yourself array of crisp salad greens,
assortment of combinations, and salad dressing. Some possible
combinations are:

1. Orange slices, fresh or canned grapefruit sections, salad greens,
celery curls, green-pepper rings, onion rings, Curry Mayonnaise

2. Pineapple chunks, banana slices, berries, grated orange rind or
chopped nuts, salad greens, Tarragon Sour-Cream Dressing P.S. With
Salad Bar, set up tray of chicken, tongue, bread slices.

Submitted By SALLIE KREBS   On   03-05-95

