Title: Garlic-Stuffed Mushrooms
Categories: Herbs/spice, Appetizers
Yield: 4 servings
4 tb Unbleached All-purpose
-flour
1/4 c  Garlic Bechemel
1 x  Salt (To Taste)
1 x  Freshly Ground White Pepper
1 x  Cayenne Pepper
12 ea Medium Mushrooms
3 tb Unsalted Butter
2 ea Scallions, Sliced
1 1/2 tb Coarsely Ground Pecans
1 1/2 tb Fresh Parmesan Cheese *
4 tb Unsalted Butter
1 1/2 tb Bread Crumbs
*  Grate the Fresh Parmesan Cheese for this recipe.

Preheat oven to 450 degrees F.

Clean the mushrooms.  Remove the stems and reserve. Parboil the
mushrooms in just enough water to cover, for 3 minutes, until barely
cooked. Drain well, blot with paper towels, and set aside until
needed.

If the tip of the stems seem woody, trim them away.  Chop stems
coarsely. Melt 2 T of the butter in a skillet.  Toss the chopped
mushrooms stems and scallions.  Saute until tender and most of the
mushroom juices have evaporated.  Toss in the pecans, pecans, bred
crumbs, parmesan cheese, and remaining tablespoon of butter.  Stir
until the butter is melted and absorbed.  Stir in the garlic
bechamel.  Add salt and freshly ground pepper to taste.

Stuff each mushroom cap with the mixture, mounding it neatly over the
top. Sprinkle each with some cayenne pepper.  Put stuffed mushrooms
in a lightly oiled, shallow baking dish.  Bake for 10 minutes or
until heated through. Serve at once.

GARLIC BECHAMEL: 2 1/2 c Scalded Milk (More or less,
depending on the thickness of 1 X Salt and Freshly Ground
White Pepper To Taste 1 Ea Large Egg At Room Temperature. 1 X
:
:
Garlic Puree From 3 Large
Heads of Roasted Garlic Melt the butter in a heavy saucepan
:
and whisk in the flour.  Let this roux cook over low heat, stirring
constantly for 3 to 4 minutes.

Whisk in the scalded milk.  Bring to a boil.  Reduce the heat and cook
gently, stirring frequently, for 10 to 15 minutes.  Add salt and
pepper and whisk in the garlic puree.  Remove from the heat.

Beat the egg in a bowl.  Beat some of the sauce into the egg.  Next
beat the egg mixture back into the garlic sauce.  Taste and correct
seasonings.

Store in the refrigerator, with plastic wrap placed directly on the
surface of the sauce, until needed.  Thin with milk before using if
necessary.

