Title: Goan Style Hot and Sour Pork
Categories: Meats
Yield: 6 servings
1 ts Brown sugar
5 tb Vegetable oil
2    Medium onions cut into rings
1 1/3 c  Water
2 lb Pork cut into 1" cubes
1    One in cube ginger chopped
8    Cloves garlic peeled
1 tb Ground coriander seeds
1/2 ts Turmeric
2 ts Whole cumin seeds
2    Hot, dried red chilies
1 ts Black pepper corns
1 ts Cardamom seeds
3    In stick cinnamon
1 1/2 ts Black mustard seeds
1 ts Fenugreek seeds
5 tb White wine vinegar
1 1/2 ts Salt
Grind cumin seeds,  red chilies,  peppercorns, cardamom seeds,
cinnamon, black  mustard  seeds and fenugreek seeds in a
coffee-grinder or other spice grinder. Put the ground spices in a
bowl. Add the vinegar, salt and sugar.  Mix and set aside. Heat the
oil in a wide, heavy pot over a medium flame.   Put in the onions.
Fry, stirring frequently, until the onions turn brown  and crisp.
Remove the onions with a slotted spoon and put them into the
container of an electric blender or food processor. (Turn off the
heat.) Add 2-3 tablespoons of water to the blender and puree the
onions. Add this puree to the ground spices in the bowl. (This is the
vindaloo paste. It may be made ahead of time and frozen.) Dry off the
meat cubes with a paper towel and remove large  pieces  of fat, if
any. Put the ginger and garlic into the container of an electric
blender or food processor. Add 2-3 tablespoons of water and blend
until you have a smooth paste. Heat the oil remaining in the pot once
again over a medium-high flame. When hot, put in the pork cubes, a
few at a time, and brown them lightly on all sides. Remove each batch
with a slotted spoon and keep in a bowl. Do all the pork this way.
Now put the ginger-garlic paste into the same pot. Turn down the heat
to medium. Stir the paste for a few seconds.  Add the coriander and
turmeric.  Stir for another few seconds. Add the meat, any juices
that may have accumulated as well as the vindaloo paste and the
water. Bring to a boil.  Cover and simmer gently for an hour or until
port is tender. Stir a few times during this cooking period. Serve
with rice.

