Title: Grain Info and Cooking Chart 5-1
Categories: Information
Forms of Corn
Yield: 1 info

Sweet Corn: This is the corn-on-the-cob variety, as well as the corn
that's used for canning and freezing. Other types of corn are Field
or Dent Corn, Indian or Flint Corn and Blue Corn.

Popcorn: This is a very specific and individual crop. What makes it
unique is that it contains a very hard hull and about 13-14% internal
moisture. With nowhere to go when the kernel is heated, the moisture
becomes steam and the kernels pop. Eaten plain, popcorn has only
30-40 calories per cup.

Whole Corn, Dried: White, yellow or blue corn can be used for
grinding into meal or flour or for parching or prepared whole hominy.
Whole corn can also be soaked and cooked for use  in various dishes
when fresh corn is not available.

Cornmeal (yellow, blue or white): Usually of medium-fine consistency
and the corn germ is retained. The various brands available differ
quite considerably in performance and quality; Indian Head gives
consistently good results. Perfect for use in breads, muffins,
griddle cakes etc.

Corn Germ: The germ is the central core of the kernel. It is used
exactly like wheat germ. It has a popcorn-like taste and is highly
perishable; refrigerate after opening. The only place to find corn
germ is in health food stores and by mail order.

Corn Bran: The bran layer of the kernel, used in exactly the same way
as wheat, oat or rice bran; a good source of soluble fiber.

Whole Hominy: The process consists of taking the whole corn and
treating it with slaked (hydrated) lime or a combination of unslaked
lime, calcium carbonate, lye or wood ash. The lime combined with
water acts to loosen the hulls and partially "cook" the kernels while
also puffing them up. The corn is then washed to remove the hulls,
dried and used for dishes such as soups and stews or the mote is
toasted and then eaten as a snack called corn nuts. When it's dried
and ground it's called masa harina and is used to make tortillas.
It's found in supermarkets and Hispanic groceries under the Quaker
label.

Hominy Grits: Originally made from under-germinated, coarsely ground
(preferably stone-ground), it's now available in both white and yellow
forms in fine, medium and coarse grinds.

Corn Flour (yellow, white and blue): Corn ground to a finer
consistency than cornmeal. Can be used for breading foods, pancakes,
wheat-free pastas and breads. Can also be mixed with wheat flours
where gluten is needed for rising.

Cornstarch: Made from a high-starch variety of corn called indentata.
A finely milled silken powder from the endosperm layer of the grain,
it's usually used as a thickening agent for sauces, soups or puddings.

Puffed Corn: Round, airy, light puffs of corn processed only by El
Molino and available in health food stores. Can be used as a
breakfast cereal or made into sweet candy snacks.

Popcorn: Available in every supermarket in the country. In addition,
since popcorn has a particularly nutty flavor, a few small mail order
companies offer popcorn flour, popcorn pancake mixes and popcorn
bread mix. They all have a crunchy texture since they're made form
ground popcorn kernels.

Other Products: Corn oil, corn syrup and even a range of corn pastas
are available for those of us with wheat allergies.

The Versatile Grain
and the
Elegant Bean
by Sheryl and Mel London
ISBN 0-671-76106-4
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   03-16-95

