Title: Grain Info and Cooking Chart 12-2
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 info  Wheat Flours:

White Flour: Basically white flour is the ground endosperm of the
wheat without the bran and the germ. Because of its high gluten
content, it is the perfect blend for use with other flours in baked
goods.

* Bleached and Unbleached: Some white flour is bleached to make it
even whiter than it is. Unbleached is preferable. * All-Purpose
Flour: Available bleached or unbleached and is the everyday
supermarket flour. It is a combination of high- and low-gluten
flours. When sifted several times, it can be used as a substitute for
pastry or cake flour. * Bread Flour: Milled from hard, high-gluten
wheat, usually unbleached. * Pastry Flour: Milled from low-gluten
soft wheat, it is of finer texture and is generally used for pastries
and cakes. * Cake Flour: A feather-light flour that is bleached and
used for baking cakes. When using it, add two extra tablespoons per
cup of cake flour to equal one cup of all- purpose of unbleached
flour. * Enriched: Some supermarket brands are sold as "enriched".
The milling and processing removes some of the natural ingredients,
which are replaced by the manufacturer. * Self-Rising Flour: These
brands contain baking powder and salt premixed for the consumer.

Whole Wheat Flour: This is hard wheat flour that retains the bran and
germ of the whole wheat berry. Some supermarket brands remove some of
the germ to increase the shelf life of the flour. Generally, the
flour sold in health food stores is stone-ground and contains the
nutrition of the whole berry. Whole-wheat  flour turns rancid much
more quickly than processed white flour; store it in the refrigerator
if possible.

* Pastry Flour: Milled from soft whole wheat and used in the same way
as white pastry flour. Sift the flour twice before measuring and then
put the bran left in the strainer back into the flour. This will
ensure a lighter product and will keep the flour from packing down. *
Graham Flour: Named after its developer, who took whole wheat flour,
ground the endosperm very finely and then returned the bran layers to
the flour. It is coarser and flakier than whole-wheat flour. Some of
the commercial brands have some of the germ removed to prolong shelf
life.

Semolina Flour: Milled from the endosperm of hard durum wheat, it is
not quite white, but more of a buttery-yellow color. Because it has a
high protein content and hard starch granules, it is perfect for
pasta products, allowing them to hold their shape in boiling water
and yet be flexible enough to stretch during cooking.

Primarily used for pastas in the U.S. Used in India for pancakes
called dosas, and vegetable pilafs. Also used for making couscous,
the traditional North African and Middle Eastern dish. Couscous comes
in two basic sizes in bulk, fine and medium. There are also
prepackaged varieties; instant, requiring only soaking, and
quick-cooking, taking about 5 minutes. Italians use semolina in
baking bread and Middle East cooks use it for unusual and delicious
desserts.

The Versatile Grain
and the
Elegant Bean
by Sheryl and Mel London
ISBN 0-671-76106-4
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   03-16-95

