Title: Grain Info and Cooking Chart 9-1
Categories: Information
Forms of Rice
Yield: 1 info

Long Grain: For either white of brown, long grain rice has the largest
kernels. After cooking the grains remain fluffy and separate. For
brown rice, the hull is removed but the germ and bran are left on the
kernel. For white rice, several versions are available: * Converted:
Steamed and pressurized before milling, thus replacing some of the
nutrients back into the kernel. * Enriched: Some of the nutrients
that are lost in the polishing process are partially replaced by the
manufacturer. Instant: Partially cooked and then dehydrated, the
least nourishing of all the forms available.

Medium Grain: These are shorter grains than long grain rice, and they
have a better cohesive quality. Not quite as sticky as short grain
rice.

Short Grain: This has thicker kernels than the long or medium grain.
They are also much softer and they stick together when cooked.
Generally used in dishes like risotto.

Glutinous Rice: A still stickier version of the short grain variety,
also known as sweet rice, sticky or waxy rice. Usually used in the
cooking of Southeast Asia. This is the rice used for Japanese sushi.
It is an opaque, oval, short tan grain, slightly sweet and very
sticky with a tender texture.

Types of Rice

Arborio: A short grain rice from the Piedmont section of Italy. Each
grain has a translucent outer portion and an opaque center. When
cooked, it yields a creamy product with an al dente firm-to-
the-tooth consistency. It has the ability to absorb large amounts of
liquid and is the prime choice for risotto

Vialone Nano: A smaller kernel than arborio; currently sold only in
Italian specialty markets. It makes a very creamy risotto.

Red Rice or Christmas Rice: This is basically a brown short grain rice
similar in color to Wehani. It has a russet color, an unusual wild
mushroom-like flavor and a chewy texture.

Basmati Rice: This is a long grain aromatic variety. Generally aged
for at least a year after harvest in order to develop its full
flavor. It's a long slender opaque grain, ranging in color from,
white to tan. Mildly fragrant while cooking; when cooked it has very
long separated grains, and is firm, white and fluffy. There are a few
homegrown varieties of aromatic rice that are much milder in flavor:

* Texmati: Grown, of course, in Texas. It is a combination of basmati
and long grain American rice. Creamier color when raw. Fluffier,
milder in flavor and aroma than imported basmati. * Wehani: A
California variety that is reddish brown. It's a hybrid of brown rice
crossed with Indian basmati. Very nutty flavor after cooking. Sticky,
toothsome texture. * Wild Pecan: It has no pecans. However, it is
gently milled to retain most of the bran and the taste resembles
pecans. It's an amber-colored long grain Louisiana rice containing
some of the bran. After cooking, it resembles brown rice.

Popcorn Rice: Very white, long grain domestic Louisiana rice. Smells
just like movie theater popcorn while cooking. White, long, separated
grains after cooking. Very flavorful.

Thai Black Rice (Japonica): A long, slightly plum grain with blunt
ends. Unlike most varieties of long grain rice, the black rice is
quite sticky and shiny. Usually used for making desserts. Its dark
color leaches into the cooking water, turning it purple and staining
the end product since the bran coating on this rice is more soluble.
Smells like grassy new-mown hay. Good flavor, toothy, slightly
glutinous flavor.

Jasmine White Rice: A soft, very white, delicately flavored long grain
aromatic rice. When cooked, it's soft, very white with a delicately
mild flavor and separated grains.

Wild Rice: Not truly a rice, but the seed of a wild aquatic plant
usually found in the Great Lakes section of the U.S. The seeds are
hand-gathered, making it more expensive than the varieties of true
rice.

The Versatile Grain
and the
Elegant Bean
by Sheryl and Mel London
ISBN 0-671-76106-4
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   03-16-95

