Title: Grain Info and Cooking Chart 2-1
Categories: Information
Forms of Barley
Yield: 1 info

Whole Hulled Barley: This is a natural white barley with only the
outermost chaff or hull removed. It can be cooked unground, added to
soups and casserole or used as a whole grain cereal.

Unhulled Brown Barley: Used for cooking and sprouting. It requires
presoaking and a long cooking time. Generally available only in
health food stores and by mail order.

Pearled Barley: This is the most common form found in the U.S. Since
it has been hulled, most of the vitamin B is lost and milling also
reduces the calcium content. However, the protein content remains
high, since most of the amino acids are in the germ rather than in
the husk. It is generally available in fine, medium and coarse grains.

Barley Flakes or Rolled Barley: Processed in exactly the same way as
rolled oats, it can be used as a cereal or toasted and used as a
thickening agent in soups, stews and baked goods. Because they have
been processed, they cook more quickly than the whole grain form. It
makes a nice chewy breakfast cereal.

Barley Grits: Whole, hulled barley, toasted and cracked into small
pieces. Excellent for use as a meat extender in meat loaf etc., or
they can be cooked for breakfast in place of hominy grits.

Barley Flour: A finely ground , hulled barley that should be blended
with other flours when used in baking, since it has a very low gluten
content. Can also be used as a thickening agent. It is sometimes
recommended for people on wheat-restricted diets. Barley Malt: This
is a sweet syrup that is somewhat like unsulphured molasses (which
can be substituted for barley malt). Not quite as sweet as honey.
Store in a cool place, since warmth may cause it to ferment.

Job's Tears (croix lacryma-jobi): Larger than pearled barley, with a
wide brown cleft down one side. Readily available in health food
stores; they may also be labeled hato mugi, Juno's Tears or River
Grain.

The Versatile Grain
and the
Elegant Bean
by Sheryl and Mel London
ISBN 0-671-76106-4
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   03-16-95

