Title: GRAND MARNIER BROWNIES
Categories: Desserts, Chocolate, Godiva
Yield: 15 servings
1/3 c  Grand Marnier
1 ts Vanilla extract
1/2 ts Finely grated orange zest
1/4 c  All-purpose flour
1/4 ts Salt
1 1/2 c  Coarsely broken walnuts
15    Chocolate-dipped walnuts,
-for garnish (optional)
9 oz Swiss dark chocolate,
-coarsely chopped
6 oz Unsweetened chocolate,
-coarsely chopped
12 tb Unsalted butter, softened
3/4 c  Granulated sugar
3/4 c  Packed dark brown sugar
3 lg Eggs, at room temperature
Position a rack in the center of the oven and preheat to 350
degrees F.
Line a 13-by-9-inch baking pan with aluminum foil so that the foil
extends 2 inches beyond the two long sides of the pan. Lightly
butter
the bottom and sides of the foil-lined pan.

Melt the chocolates according to the melting instructions in the
Chocolate Key. Cool the chocolate for 10 to 15 minutes, until
tepid.

In a large bowl, using a hand-held electric mixer set at high
speed,
beat together the butter and sugars until creamy. One at a time,
beat in
the eggs, beating well after each addition. Beat in the Grand
Marnier,
vanilla and orange zest until combined. (The mixture may look
slightly
curdled.) Beat in the cooled chocolate until smooth. On low
speed, beat
in the flour and salt just until mixed. Using a rubber spatula,
stir in
the broken nuts.

Scrape the batter into the prepared pan and smooth the surface
with a
rubber spatula. Bake the brownies for 25 to 30 minutes, or until
a cake
tester or toothpick inserted 2 inches away from the center comes
out
with a few moist crumbs clinging to it. Do not overbake.

Cool the brownies in the pan on a wire rack. Place the brownies
in the
pan in the freezer and chill for 20 minutes. Using the two long
ends of
the foil as handles, lift the brownies out of the pan. Gently
invert the
brownies onto a cutting board or large plate and carefully peel
off the
foil. Invert again onto a smooth surface and cut into fifteen
squares.
Top with chocolate-dipped walnuts, if desired. Makes 15 brownies.
Submitted By CHARLENE DEERING   On   03-13-95

