Title: Italian Cooking - Lesson 3  4/7 Tomato Sauce
Categories: Salsa/sauce, Italian, Information
Yield: 2 servings
MMMMM---------------------BASIC TOMATO SAUCE--------------------------
(canned); with juices
Salt and fresh ground pepper
15    Basil leaves; fresh chopped
1/4 c  Oil; olive extra virgin
2 lg Garlic cloves, peeled
-- thinly sliced
1 1/2 c  Tomatoes, italian plum
MMMMM-----------------JIM CARNEVALE TOMATO SAUCE----------------------
-- seeded and pureed
3 tb Pesto
3 lb Tomatoes, very ripe,
-- blanched, peeled
The meal that we will prepare in this lesson is one of my favorites;
Polenta and Sausage with a side of Sauteed Escarole with Raisins and
Pignoli.  The meal is simple to prepare and serves 4 as written here.
Start the meal with and antipasti of grilled vegetables and pesto as
outlined in part 2 in the previous message. Finish the meal with
fresh fruit or biscotti and vino santo and an espresso. The meal will
be memorable. Here are the recipes for tomato sauce and polenta. The
next message will contain the recipe for the side dish and assembling
the meal.

BASIC TOMATO SAUCE There is nothing more simple than a fresh tomato
sauce both in its favor and its ease of preparation. Use a good
quality of canned tomatoes or for better results use fresh. This is
the sauce that will be used for the Polenta and Sausage. It can also
be used in a variety of other dishes and will also be enough to top
about a pound of fresh pasta or 1/2 pound of dried pasta, cooked. The
sauce can be prepared ahead and reheated briefly before serving.

Heat the oil in a small sauce pan over medium heat.  Add garlic and
saute until pale golden.  Add tomatoes and bring to a simmer. Cook
uncovered for about 30 minutes. Add salt, pepper and basil.  Cook
gently for no more than 5 more minutes and serve.

JIM'S TOMATO SAUCE So much for the textbook recipe. The way I do
tomato sauce is by starting with 3 pounds of very ripe tomatoes;
blanched, peeled, seeded and pureed. Simmer them for around 30 to 45
minutes.  Add a generous tablespoon or two of pesto and simmer for
another 5 min. That's all there is to it.  The quantities are not
exact and should, in the spirit of good Italian cooking should be
adjusted to your own taste.

From:   Garner Miller To:   Michele Stewart Msg #207, Jun-22-94
Subject: Italian Cooking   From: Jim Carnevale Date: 4/23/92 MM
format by Dorothy Hair 6/27/94

