Title: Jambalaya, Frank's Cajun
Categories: Cajun/creol
Yield: 1 servings
2 cn Rotel tomatoes; (2 8-oz. ca
-ns)
2 c  Beef stock
2 ts Kitchen bouquet
1/2 ts Thyme
2 ts Chili powder
Black pepper to taste
Cayenne pepper to taste
Salt to taste
2 lb Shrimp; peeled
12    Green onions; sliced
1/2 c  Parsley; minced
1/2 c  Bacon drippings; or margari
-ne
1 lb Smoked sausage; diced
1/2 lb Andouille; diced
1/2 lb Tasso
1/2 lb Bacon; crumbled
2 c  Chicken; julienned or julie
-nned turkey
2    Onions; coarsely chopped
1 md Bell pepper; chopped
6    Celery; coarsely chopped
4    Cl Garlic; finely minced
3 c  Rice; long grain
To make a really good pot of jambalaya, you're going to need a
well-seasoned black cast iron Dutch oven with a tight-fitting lid.
And for this recipe, an 8-quart pot is perfect!
So take the pot, put it on the burner over high heat, and pour in
the bacon drippings (or margarine).  Then toss in the smoked sausage,
andouille, tasso, and crumbled bacon and stir-fry the meats until the
smoked sausage turns light brown (it should take about 8 minutes or
so).
Now, drop in the julienned chicken and stir-fry it until every
strip loses its translucency (turns white).  Then immediately add the
onions, bell pepper, celery and garlic, and reduce the heat to
medium-high, and cook the vegetables until they soften.
At this point, pour in the rice.  And you want to stir it
thorougly into the seasoning vegetables and meats until every single
grain is moistened -- about 4 to 5 minutes.
Next, add the tomatoes, beef stock, Kitchen Bouquet, thyme and
chili powder, blend everything together well, and bring the mixture
to a slow boil.  When this happens, taste the liquids and season the
dish to taste with salt, black and cayenne pepper. Just remember that
you're going to have to season it a little on the "heavy side"
because the rice will absorb much of the seasonings as it cooks, and
you still have a couple pounds of shrimp to mix in.  *So be sure to
taste carefully!* [I'd definitely add Tabasco for flavor, too.]
When everything is just right, reduce the heat as low as it will
go, put the lid on the pot, and simmer the jambalaya for about an
hour. This "slow cooking" process allows each grain of rice to cook
evenly, puff properly, and pick up the combination of flavors.  If
the heat is too high, the rice will stick to the bottom of the pot
and turn mushy.
Then when the jambalaya is done, about 5 minutes before you're
ready to eat, stir in the raw shrimp, green onions, and parsley, put
the lid back on the pot, and continue to simmer the jambalaya over
*low heat* until the shrimp turn pink.
I suggest that before you serve the dish, you fluff the rice
slightly. I also suggest that you serve the dish alongside crispy
buttered French bread and ice-cold beer. CHEF'S HINTS: 1. Under no
circumstances should you remove the cover from the pot during the
slow-cooking process. If you do, you'll release steam you need to
cook the rice. Your rice will turn out hard in the center and your
jambalaya will be dry instead of moist. Don't peek in the pot! 2. If
you don't feel that your stove-top will cook the jambalaya slowly
enough, put the cover on the pot (after you mix the liquids in), set
your oven at 300F, put the pot into the oven, and bake the dish for
about 45 minutes. It will come out perfect! From "Frank Davis Cooks
Naturally N'Awlins" by Frank Davis. Source: Naturally N'Awlins - F.
Davis Submitted By WESLEY PITTS   On   03-04-95

