Title: Kizarmis Patlican (Fried Eggplant with Green (see dirs))
Categories: Middle east, Turkish, Vegetables
Yield: 6 servings
1 ts Salt
1/4 c  Salt
1    Eggplant; (about 1 lb.)
2 md Green peppers; seeded,
;deribbed and cut lengthwise
;into quarters
2 tb Olive oil
1 1/2 c  Olive oil
4 md Tomato; peeled, seeded and
;coarsely chopped
2 lg Garlic cloves; peeled and
;thinly sliced
Name; Fried Eggplant with Green Peppers and Tomato Sauce

In a heavy 8 to 10 inch skillet, heat 2 tablespoons of the olive
oil over moderate heat until a light haze forms above it.  Add the
tomatoes, garlic and 1 teaspoon of the salt.  Mashing and stirring
frequently, cook the tomatoes briskly until almost all their liquid
evaporates and they become a thick, somewhat smooth puree.  Set aside
off the heat.
With a large, sharp knife, peel the eggplant and cut off the stem
end. Cut the eggplant lengthwise into « inch thick slices.  Then one
at a time lay each slice flat and cut lengthwise strips at « inch
intervals starting at the wide end and cutting to within about 2
inches of the narrow end. the slices should now look like fans.
Combine 1 quart of water and the remaining 1/4 cup of salt in a
shallow bowl or baking dish, and add the eggplant sections.  Turn
them about to coat them evenly with the brine, and let them soak at
room temperature for about 10 minutes to rid them of any bitterness.
In a heavy 12 inch skillet, heat the remaining 1 « cups of oil over
high heat until a light haze forms above it.  Pat the eggplant
completely dry with paper towels.  Regulating the heat so the
eggplant colors evenly without burning, fry it 3 or 4 slices at a
time for about 5 minutes on each side, or until it is lightly browned
and shows no resistance when pierced with the tines of a fork.
Transfer the eggplant to paper towels and fry the remaining slices.
Add the green peppers, skin side up, to the oil remaining in the
skillet, adding more oil if necessary.  Cook the peppers over
moderate heat for about 10 minutes, turning them over with tongs.
When they are soft but still somewhat firm to the touch, drain them
on paper towels. Peel off the skins with a small, sharp knife.
Mound the eggplant slices in the center of a serving platter and
pour the tomato sauce over them.  Fold the peppers in half lengthwise
and arrange them attractively around the eggplant.  Serve at room
temperature.

72 of 116

Time Life Series: Middle Eastern Cooking,  "circa  69"

MMed by: earl.cravens@salata.com
Submitted By EARL CRAVENS   On   02-25-95

