Title: Kolach (Braided Bread)
Categories: Russian, Holiday, Breads
Yield: 3 servings
-- you can use
-- up to 4 tbs
8 c  Unbleached flour
-- or more if needed
1 lg Egg; beaten with
1 tb Water; for glaze
2 tb Dry poppy seeds
1 ts Sugar
1 c  Water; lukewarm
2 pk Dry yeast
3 tb Sugar
2 c  Milk; (about 110 degrees f
2 lg Eggs
1 tb Salt
2 tb Oil or melted butter
Disolve 1 tsp sugar in the water and sprinkle the yeast over it.
Add 1 Tbl of sugar, stir and let stand for 10 minutes.  Combine the
yeast with the milk, lightly beaten eggs, salt, 2 tbl sugar, oil, and
3 cups of sifted flour.  Beat until smooth.  Cover and let rise in a
warm place until light and bubbly, about 1 hour.  Mix in enough of
the remaining flour to make a light, slightly sticky dough, then
knead in the bowl until smooth and elastic, (Remember the heavier the
dough, the heavier the bread.) and leaves the sides of the bowl
easily.  Or in the processor, add the yeast mixture to the flour and
then add the liquids. With the machine running, add more flour until
a ball forms.  Allow to rest for several minutes. Process until the
dough is smooth and elastic. Form into a ball and place in a lightly
oiled bowl, turning once to oil the top. Cover with a linen dish
towl, soaked in hot water and then wrung out until damp only, and let
rise in a warm place until double in bulk. Punch down and allow to
rise again, slightly.  Divide the dough into 3 parts. Divide 1 part
into thirds, rolling each into a rope 8 to 10 inches long and 1 1/2
inches thick. Braid together, starting at the middle and turn the
ends under. Repeat with each of the remaining parts of the dough.
Place the loaves on buttered baking sheets.  Do not crowd, since the
loaves will double in   size.  Cover with the damp towel and let rise
until almost double.  Brush   with the egg glaze and sprinkle with
the poppy seeds.  Bake in a preheated   375 Degrees F. oven at least
1 hour, or until golden.  Test by rapping the   bottom, there should
be a nice hollow sound.  Cool on wire racks until cold before cutting.

