Title: Laab Nuea (Ground Beef Salad)
Categories: Thai, Beef, Salads
Yield: 4 servings
- chopped
2 tb Cilantro leaves, chopped
**
1 ts Thai red chili pepper,
- ground (prik khee no pon)
15    Mint leaves
1 lb Ground beef
1/4 c  Lime juice
2 tb Fish sauce (nam pla)
1/2 ts Galangal powder(kha pon) **
6    Shallots, thinly sliced
2 tb Scallion (spring onion),
Description:
The blend of fresh herbs and lime juice makes this salad very
refreshing. This laab recipe was taken to Bangkok by the people of
the Northeast and is one of the favorite dishes of Thailand.  Other
meats such as chicken or pork can also be used.

Directions:
Combine the ground beef with the lime juice, fish sauce, galangal
powder and shallots.
Heat a skillet and cook the ground beef mixture on medium-high heat
for 5 minutes or until the beef is cooked.
Remove the skillet from the heat and add the chopped green onion and
cilantro and the ground roasted rice.  Mix thoroughly so that
everything is well combined.
Remove to a serving plate, spoon the ground pepper on the side of
the plate if desired, and garnish with the mint leaves.
Serve with an accompaniment of raw vegetables, such as long string
beans or snake beans, sliced cabbage, green leaf lettuce/Chinese
lettuce, basil leaves, and swamp cabbage or spinach.

** TERMS
Roasted sticky rice: Prepared by adding raw sticky rice to a hot
skillet and cooking until it is golden brown.  Add a tablespoon of
water to the pan at occasional intervals.  Grind in a mortar with a
pestle if ground roasted sticky rice is needed.
Galangal (kha): A relative of the ginger root, galangal is pale
yellow and has a unique, delicate flavor.  Fresh young ginger root,
but not dried ginger, is an adequate substitute, but does not
properly replace the unique flavor.
Fish sauce (nam pla): A salty, pale brown liquid used widely in Thai
cooking, this is made from fermented small fish or shrimp.  THe fish
are salted and fermented in jars and then the liquid is collected.
It adds salt to many dishes and is essential for authentic Thai
flavors--and is available from Asian food stores.

Typed from: "Thailand, the Beautiful Cookbook.", ISBN 0-00-255029-6.
A large coffee table pictorial book, full of lovely pictures,
descriptions, information and recipes. Typed by Dale/Gail Shipp,
Columbia Md.

