Title: LE CHOCOLAT POIVER 2
Categories: Desserts, Chocolate, Godiva
Yield: 8 servings  Continued:

Make the chocolate mousse:
Place the chocolate in a food processor fitted with the metal
chopping
blade. Process for 20 to 30 seconds, until finely ground.
In a small saucepan, combine the milk, sugar and salt. Cook over
medium
heat, stirring with a wooden spoon, until the sugar dissolves and
the
milk comes to a boil. Remove the pan from the heat.

With the motor of the food processor running, pour the hot milk
through
the feed tube. Process for 10 to 20 seconds until the chocolate is
completely melted. Using a spatula, scrape down the side of the
work
bowl. Add the oil, port, and vanilla; process for 5 to 10 seconds,
until
the mixture is creamy. Scrape the chocolate mixture into a large
bowl
and cool for about 5 minutes, until tepid.

In a 4 1/2-quart bowl of a heavy-duty electric mixer using the
wire whip
attachment, whip the cream until soft mounds barely start to form
and
the cream is still pourable. Do not overwhip the cream.

Using a rubber spatula, gently fold one third of the whipped
cream into
the tepid chocolate mixture to lighten it. Fold in the remaining
whipped
cream. Do not overfold the mousse or the texture will be grainy.
Refrigerate until ready to serve.

Make the port aspic:
Measure 1/4 cup of water into a medium-sized heatproof ramekin.
Sprinkle
the gelatin over the water and let the mixture soften for five
minutes.
In a medium saucepan, set over medium heat, bring the port, 1 cup
of the
water and the sugar to a boil. Remove the pan from the heat.

Immediately scrape the gelatin mixture into the hot port/sugar
mixture
and stir to combine. Stir occasionally while the mixture cools,
for
about 15 minutes.

Pour a thin layer of the port aspic over each of 8 dessert plates.
Chill
until set.

Choose the eight prettiest cookie wafers and reserve them for the
tops
of the desserts. If desired, dust with confectioners' sugar and
cocoa
powder.

To serve, arrange one chocolate wafer in the center of each
dessert
plate. Fill a pastry bag fitted with a large star tip (such as
Ateco #5)
with the chocolate mousse. Pipe a layer of chocolate mousse over
each
wafer. Place another cookie on top of the mousse, and pipe another
mousse layer. Finish with the reserved chocolate wafers.
Submitted By CHARLENE DEERING   On   03-13-95

