Title: Luncheon Salad Plates
Categories: Fruit, Mixes, Mom's, Salads
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM----------------SOURCE: MY MOTHER'S RECIPE C---------------------
-70's
Newspapers from the 40's to
MMMMM--------------------FROM : SALLIE KREBS-------------------------
Individual art works.
MELANA. For each serving, halve peeled banana lengthwise; brush with
lemon juice. Arrange halves, with cut sides up, side by side on
plate. Place melon balls (cantaloupe, honeydew, and/or watermelon) at
each end and between halves. Garnish with chicory and salted peanuts.
Beside salad, place hot biscuits filled with slivers of ham. Pass
Lemon French Dressing; guest helps himself.

FRUIT PLATE UNUSUAL. For each serving, select 3 or 4 fruits or fruit
groupings below- arrange on nests of greens, with low sherbet glass
punch cup, or lettuce cup of Golden Cream-Cheese Topping in center or
on side of plate. Pass dainty-sized tongue sandwiches. Peeled peach
halves Grapefruit or orange  Strips of melon (any and figs sections
type) Unpeeled apricot Strawberries or Chunks of banana, halves and
fresh cherries with stems fresh, frozen, or prunes Unpared pear quar-
Unpared
canned pineapple Small bunches seed- ters, red plums,
apple slices less or other grapes nectarines

BIG FRUIT. For each serving, prepare 2 or 3 pared slender strips
chilled cantaloupe or honeydew or both. On top and beside melon
arrange pitted Bing cherries, canned pineapple chunks, banana cube
walnuts, cress. Pass Lemon-Cream Mayonnaise.

MELON RING. For each serving, place 2"-thick pared slice of seeded
cantaloupe on crisp lettuce. Fill with blueberries and seedless grape
Top with fruit milk sherbet. Garnish with sharp-cheese-and-nut balls.


SMALL FRY. For each serving, use bed of shredded lettuce, canned
peach half topped with cottage cheese; small banana, split
lengthwise, fill with peanut butter, then cut into chunks;
raisin-bread-and-butter sandwiches. Serve with Honey French Dressing.

GOLDEN. For each serving, fill half a seeded cantaloupe with canned
frozen pineapple chunks; top with chive cream cheese and sprigs water
cress. Beside melon, place toasted corn muffins. Pass French dressing.

WEST-COAST SPECIAL. For each serving slice some avocado onto nest of
water cress; flank with finger sandwiches of curried chicken salad.
Around this, arrange horseshoe of overlapping orange slices. Place
cheese-stuffed, nut-topped celery in center of horseshoe. Pass
Pineapple French Dressing.

GOLDEN GIRL. For each serving, top nest of coleslaw with 2 pineapple
slices and 2 cream-cheese apples. Add several carrot curls and ripe
olives; beside slaw, place toasted English muffin. Pass Chutney French
Dressing.

FRUIT BLUE PLATE. For each serving, heap blueberries on fresh canned
pear half- add drizzle of honey. Slice fluted banana into round place
beside pear. Dress with Smooth Cottage-Cheese Topping. At side, place
toasted peanut-butter sandwiches.

Submitted By SALLIE KREBS   On   03-05-95

