Title: Make Your Own Mascarpone Cheese
Categories: Information, Cheese/eggs
Yield: 1 batch
-Manischewitz sour salt*)
1 qt Heavy cream
1/2 ts Citric acid (such as
Have ready a heavy Dutch kettle, a slotted spoon, some cheesecloth, a
strainer, and a candy thermometer.

Pour the cream into the kettle and set over low heat.  Slowly heat the
cream to 180-190F. (At 175F start to keep a close watch.)  You can
stir a little.

When the cream is ready, remove from heat.  Sprinkle in the citric
acid, stirring gently twice.  Wait until liquid stops moving and stir
gently a few more times.  Cover the pot and let the curds form for 30
to 40 minutes. The curds will firm up, but may not be obviously
separated from the whey.

Meanwhile, line a strainer with damp cheesecloth and rest the
strainer over a large bowl.

Pour the cream through the strainer.  Drain until mascarpone is room
temperature. (see note 2)  Cover the strainer, bowl and all, with
plastic wrap to prevent refrigerator odors from assaulting the
delicate cheese and chill for 24 hours, to finish firming the cheese.

The mascarpone left in the strainer will be thick and creamy and
ready to use.  Transfer to a bowl and peel off cheesecloth.  Keep
refrigerated. Use within a week.

Makes 7/8 pound.

*Sour salt is a very effective acid for mascarpone making.  It is the
essential flavorant in the classic Hungarian sauce for stuffed
cabbage. It is also used in Jewish-style cabbage soup.  You may find
it at a supermarket, but you are all but guaranteed to find it at an
ethnic European market or delicatessen.  If you don't, use 2
tablespoons lemon juice or vinegar for every quart of cream.

Note 2:  Drainage from the mascarpone is nice and creamy with a great
deal of body.  Don't let it go to waste.  It may be whipped and
served on top of fruit, cake, or pudding.  It tastes like tangy sour
cream or creme fraiche.

from Gooey Desserts:  The Joy of Decadence by Elaine Corn typed by
Tiffany Hall-Graham
Submitted By TIFFANY HALL-GRAHAM   On   03-15-95

