Title: Mee Krob (Crisp-Fried Noodles)
Categories: Thai, Poultry, Fish, Pork, Pasta
Yield: 4 servings
1 md Onion, finely diced
3    Cloves garlic, minced
1 sm Red or green chile, seeds
-removed, finely minced
3/4 lb Minced pork, diced chicken,
-or peeled shrimp, or a
-mixture
2    Green onions, sliced, for
-garnish
Stephen Ceideburg
2 tb Fish sauce
2 tb Dark soy sauce
2    Limes, juice only
3 tb Vinegar
1/4 c  Brown sugar or half brown
-and half palm sugar
Oil, for deep-frying
6 oz Rice sticks
4    Eggs, lightly beaten
This special occasion noodle dish is a favorite in many Thai
restaurants. Some versions are extremely sweet and sticky; this
version is less so, but the important flavors are still sweet, sour,
and salty in that order. Be sure to use a large enough pan for
saucing the noodles (step 5); a 14-inch wok is ideal.

1. In a small bowl, combine fish sauce, soy sauce, lime juice,
vinegar, and sugar and set aside.

2. In a wok or deep skillet, heat oil to 350 degrees F. Drop
approximately an ounce of rice sticks into the oil; they will puff up
and rise to the top of the oil in only a few seconds. Turn them over
once and fry until crisp, about 15 seconds in all. Transfer finished
noodles to a pan lined with paper towels and continue frying the
batter in small batches. Keep noodles warm in a low oven.

3. Dip a hand in the beaten egg and, holding your hand approximately 8
inches above the hot oil, drizzle egg over the surface in a random
pattern. Continue with about half the egg mixture, forming a lacy
network of egg. Fry until golden brown on underside, turn over once,
and brown other side. Transfer to a plate and drain on paper towels.
Repeat with remaining egg.

4. Heat a second wok over medium high heat and add approximately 2
tablespoons oil from the first wok. Add onion, garlic, and chile and
cook until they are fragrant. Add meats or shrimp and stir-fry just
until done.

5. Stir sugar mixture and add to wok. Bring to a boil and cook until
slightly thickened. Reduce heat to low and add about a quarter of the
fried noodles and eggs. Stir together and toss to break up noodle
clumps and coat with sauce. Continue adding noodles and eggs in
batches until all are coated with sauce. Transfer to serving platter
and garnish with sliced green onion.

Serves 4 with other dishes.

From the California Culinary Academy's "Southeast Asian Cooking", Jay
Harlow, published by the Chevron Chemical Company, 1987. ISBN
0-89721-098-0.

