Title: Mrs Beeton's Lobster Advice
Categories: Seafood, Information
Yield: 1 servings
No Ingredients Found
Lobsters can be obtained all the year round but are scarce from
December to March.  They are cheapest during the summer months.
Lobsters are usually bought already boiled, but live lobsters can be
obtained to order if a few days' notice is given to the fishmonger.
Choose one of medium size and heavy in weight, it is ellegal to sell
lobsters less than 9 inches in length, or to offer 'berried' or
'spawny' fish, ie, when the coral is visible outside the shell.  If
fresh, the tail of a cooked lobster will be stiff, and if gently
raised, will return with a spring. The narrowness of the back part of
the tail and the stiffness of the two uppermost fins (swimmerettes)
in the tail distinguish the cock lobster from the hen. TO BOIL
LOBSTERS

There are two methods of boiling lobsters, each method having points
in its favor. METHOD #1 Wash the lobster well before boiling, tie the
claws securely.  Have ready a saucepan of boiling water, salted in
the proportion of 1/4 lb salt to 1 gallon water. Throw the lobster
head first into the water. (This instantly destroys life) Keep water
boiling for 20-45 minutes, according to size, and skim well.  Allow
20 minutes to half an hour for small lobsters and 1/2 -3/4 hour for
large lobsters.  If boiled too long the meat becomes thready, and if
not done enough, the coral is not red. Rub the shells over with a
little salad oil to brighten the colour. METHOD #2 Put the lobsters
into warm water, bring the water gradually to the boil and boil as
above.  This is believed by many to be a more humane method of
killing, as the lobster is lulled to sleep and does not realise it is
being killed. TO PREPARE A LOBSTER Wipe the lobster well with clean
damp cloth and twist off claws and legs. Place lobster on a board
parallel to the edge with back uppermost head to left. Cut along the
centre of back, from junction of head with body to tail, using a
sharp, stainless knife. Reverse so that tail is to left and cut along
head; the stomach, which lies just behind the mouth, is not cut until
last. Remove intestinal cord, remove stomach and coral (if any) and
keep for garnish. Meat may be left in shell or removed and used as
required. Knock off the tips of the claws with the back of a knife
and drain away any water.  Tap sharply round the broadest part of
each claw and shell should fall apart.  Cut cartliage between
pincers, open pincers and meat can be removed in one piece. Remove
meat from smaller joints of claws. Origin: Mrs. Beeton's Cookery and
Household Management Book. Shared by: Sharon Stevens.

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   03-04-95

