Title: Olive Garden Lasagna
Categories: Pasta, Salsa/sauce
Yield: 8 servings
1/8 ts Black pepper
1/4 ts Dried basil
1/4 ts Dried oregano
1 1/4 c  Alfredo sauce; cooled
Vegetable mix
4 c  Broccoli florets
2 c  Carrots; sliced 1/4"; then
Chopped
4 c  Mushrooms; slice 1/4"
2 c  Red bell peppers; dice
1 c  Green bell pepper; dice
1 c  Yellow onion; dice
2 c  Zucchini; slice
Lasagna strips
-----waldine van geffen vghc
Alfredo sauce
1/2 lb Sweet or salted butter
12 oz Heavy cream
Fresh ground white pepper
1 1/2 c  Fresh parmesan; grate
18 sl Mozzarella cheese; 1/2oz ea
Ricotta cheese mix
1 pt Ricotta cheese
2 oz Romano; grate
3 oz Mozzarella; shred
2 tb Green onions; slice
2 ts Fresh parsley; chop
1/2 ts Salt
Lay out enough dry lasagna strips in a 9x13 pan to ensure you have
enough to make 3 full layers, with very little overlap on each layer.
Remove the dry strips and cook according to package instructions
until barely "al dente" and drain.

ALFREDO SAUCE-Heat water to a boil in the bottom of a double boiler.
Add butter, cream and pepper to the top pot and heat until butter is
completely melted, then stir in Parmesan until melted and blended.
Remove top pot and set aside to cool. Divide the sauce into 2 equal
portions. Refrigerate 1 portion for use later.

RICOTTA CHEESE MIX- Combine all ingredients in a bowl and blend
thoroughly with a rubber spatula. Set asside at room temp.

VEGETABLES-Combine all veggies and mix well.

ASSEMBLY-Coat the bottom and sides of a 9x13 baking dish with
vegetable spray. Lay out cooked lasagna strips (about 4) to cover
entire bottom. Spread 1-1/4 c of the Ricotta mix evenly over the
strips. Top with 8 c of veggie mix and spread out evenly. Lay out 9
of the mozzarella slices to cover the veggie layer.

Repeat this layering. Top the second layer of mozzarella slices with
lasagna strips and spread them evenly with 1-1/4 c ricotta cheese mix
to finish.

COOKING-Spray a sheet of foil with vegetable spray and cover the
baking dish tightly with the foil, sprayed side down. Bake in a
preheated 375~ oven for about an hour or until the internal temp is
165~. Remove from the oven and allow to sit for a few minutes,
covered, before cutting and serving. Immediately prior to serving,
heat the reserved portion of Alfredo Sauce and ladle the hot sauce
over each slice of lasagna as it is served.

Source: The Olive Garden.

