Title: Papoutsakia (Baked Eggplant "Little Shoes"
Categories: Middle east, Greek, Meats, Vegetables
Yield: 4 servings
1 ts Salt
1/4 c  Kefalotiri; freshly grated
;or use Parmesan cheese
.
SALTSA BESAMEL (CREAM SAUCE)
1 c  Milk
2 ts Butter
2    Egg
2 tb Flour
1/4 ts Salt
2 md Eggplant; (about 1 pound ea.
;washed but not peeled
10 tb Olive oil
1/2 c  Onion; finely chopped
1/2 lb Lamb, lean ground
1 c  Tomato puree; canned
2 tb Parsley; finely chopped
;prefer flat leaf parsley
1/2 ts Garlic; finely chopped
Black pepper; freshly ground
Cut the eggplants in half lengthwise.  With a spoon, hollow out the
center of each half to make a boat like shell about 1/4 inch thick.
finely chop the eggplant pulp and set it aside.
In a heavy 10 to 12 inch skillet heat 4 tablespoons of the olive
oil over moderate heat until a light haze forms above it.  Add two
eggplant shells, cut side up, and, shaking the pan occasionally to
prevent them from sticking, cook over low heat for 5 minutes.  turn
the shells over and cook for 5 minutes longer, or until they are
somewhat soft to the touch. Transfer them hollow side down to paper
towels to drain, and cook the remaining 2 shells in a similar
fashion, adding more oil to the pan if necessary.  Then arrange the 4
shells cut side up in a baking dish large enough to hold them snugly.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees (F).  To prepare the filling, pour 3
tablespoons of oil into the skillet and heat over moderate heat until
a light haze forms above it.  Add the onions, and, stirring
frequently, cook for 8 to 10 minutes, or until they are soft and
slightly colored. Stir in the lamb and, mashing it with the back of
the spoon to break up any lumps, cook until all traces of pink
disappear. Add the chopped eggplant pulp, tomato puree, parsley,
garlic, salt and a few grindings of pepper, and raise the heat.
Stirring almost constantly cook briskly until most of the liquid in
the pan evaporates and the mixture is thick enough to hold ts shape
almost solidly in the spoon. Remove the skillet from the heat and
stir in the grated cheese.  Taste for seasoning.
Spoon the filling into the eggplant shells, dividing it equally
among them and mounding it slightly in the center.  Bake in the
middle of the oven for 45 minutes, or until the shells are tender and
the filling lightly browned.

CREAM SAUCE:
Meanwhile, prepare the saltsa besamel.  In a small pan, heat 3/4
cup of milk and the butter until bubbles appear around the rim of the
pan. Remove from the heat.  In a heavy 2 to 3 quart saucepan, beat
the eggs, the remaining 1/4 cup of milk, the flour and 1/4 teaspoon o
salt with a whisk or rotary beater until smooth.  Place the saucepan
over moderate heat and, stirring constantly with a whisk, slowly pour
in the milk and melted butter in a thin continuous stream.  Still
stirring, cook until the sauce comes to a boil and thickens heavily.
Taste for seasoning.
To serve, arrange the baked eggplant on a large heated platter or
individual serving plates and spoon the sauce over the top.

73 of 116

Time Life Series: Middle Eastern Cooking,  "circa  69"

MMed by: earl.cravens@salata.com
Submitted By EARL CRAVENS   On   02-25-95

