Title: Pisni Holubts (Meatless Cabbage Rolls)
Categories: Holiday, Russian
Yield: 10 servings
1 tb Salt
1 ts Black pepper; to taste
16 oz Canned tomatoes
1    Bouillon cube
-- or
1 tb Maggi sauce
Tomato juice or water
-- as needed
2 c  Rice; uncooked
4 c  Water
1 md Head white cabbage
-- 4 to 5 lbs
Without bruised leaves
2 lg Onions (use 3 if you like
-- onions); chopped
1/4 lb Butter; 1 stick
1 c  Mushroom mix
Combine the rice and water in a medium saucepan.  Bring to a boil,
stir gently, cover and cook for about 20 minutes.  Cool in a large
bowl.  Core the cabbage and place it in a large pot or Dutch oven
half filled with water, cover, and bring to a boil.  Cook about 2
minutes.  As the outer leaves become translucent and soft, pry off
and remove with a wooden spoon.

Continue until the head is about 5 inches in diameter, remove and
save for Cabbage Filling, (Recipe will be included in the next bunch).

Trim the leaves by paring of the thick part of the rib.  In a large
skillet, saute the chopped onions in melted butter until lightly
cooked.

Add the onions and mushroom mix to the rice, stir gently but do NOT
mash.

Add salt and pepper to taste.  Line the bottom of a baking dish with
the outer cabbage leaves.  Place a large spoonful of the filling at
the stem end of each leaf, fold over the sides and roll from the
bottom to the top.

Do NOT overstuff or the results will look like hand granades.  The
rice will expand when baked.  Without crowding, arrange in neat
layers in the baking dish, covering the last layer with a few cabbage
leaves.

Coarsely chop the tomatoes and pour over the rolls.  Add the bouillon
cube or Maggi seasoning, cover, and bake in a preheated 325 Degree F.
oven for about 2 hours.  Add tomato juice or water as needed, there
should be 2 to 3 inches of liquid at the bottom.  Baked rolls will
keep hot for about 1 hour.

Yield: About 2 dozen.

To freeze before baking, place the rolls on an oiled baking sheet and
freeze until rigid, then store in heavy plastic bags.

Serve with mushroom gravy.

