Title: Pudding Mix
Categories: Mixes
Yield: 4 servings
MMMMM-------------------------BASIC MIX------------------------------
1 c  Flour
1 ts Salt
2 c  Nonfat dry milk
1 c  Sugar
MMMMM----------------------VANILLA PUDDING---------------------------
1    Egg; slightly beaten
1 ts Vanilla extract
1 c  Pudding mix
2 c  Warm water
1 tb Butter or margarine
Recipe by: The Cook's Book of Uncommon Recipes - ISBN 0-940367-14-9

To Prepare Mix: Mix all ingredients together. Store in jar with tight
lid and use within about 3 months.

To Make Vanilla Pudding: In the top of a double boiler, mix 1 cup
pudding mix with 2 cups of warm water. Put over boiling water and
cook until thickened stirring constantly. Reduce heat to low under
the boiling water. Cover the upper part of the pan and continue
cooking for about 10 mins (stir once or twice during this time). Add
butter/margarine and stir. Remove from heat. Slowly, in a thin
stream, pour half of hot mixture into beaten egg and mix well. Pour
egg mixture back into remaining hot pudding mixture, and replace on
top of double boiler on the bottom section holding boiling water and
cook for another minute.

Cool slightly, stir once or twice, then put plastic wrap down on
surface of pudding and chill. Makes 4 servings. (Be sure to use
double boiler to cook because cooking over direct heat will cause the
pudding to be gummy and not smooth.)

Variations Using Pudding Mix: Butterscotch Pudding Mix: Substitute
brown sugar for white. Other wise follow directions above.

Chocolate Pudding Mix: Add 3 Tbs. cocoa powder to ingredients for
vanilla pudding and make according to directions above.

Rice Pudding using Pudding Mix: Mix 2 cups cooked rice into prepared
vanilla pudding. Add some raisins if you like. Dust top with ground
nutmeg (freshly grated is best).

Peanut Butter Pudding using Pudding Mix: Mix 1/3 cup peanut butter
and 1/4 cup chopped peanuts into hot prepared vanilla pudding (you
can add some chocolate chips to this when it has cooled).

Coconut, Banana, or Other Fruit Pudding using Pudding Mix: Add 1/2 to
1 cup fruit to prepared vanilla pudding before chilling.

NOTES : This mix is relatively quick and easy to make. The nice thing
about it is that you KNOW what is in it. No fillers or
additives
that you can't pronounce; just simple and nutritious.

