Title: Rigatoni with Asparagus, Artichokes and Peppers
Categories: Pasta, Vegetables, Main dish
Yield: 8 servings
6 1/2 tb All-purpose flour
4 1/2 c  Milk
2 1/4 c  Packed grated Fontina cheese
-(about 9 ounces)
3 c  Coarsely grated Parmesan
-cheese (about 6 ounces)
2 pk Arugula (1/2-ounce
-packages), coarsely chopped
3 lg Red bell peppers
1 1/2 lb Dry rigatoni pasta
1 1/2 lb Asparagus, trimmed and cut
-into 2-inch pieces
1 pk Frozen artichoke hearts,
-thawed and cut in half
Lengthwise
1 tb Olive oil
4 1/2 tb Butter
Char the peppers over a gas flame OR under the broiler until
blackened on all sides.  Wrap in a paper bag and let stand for 10
minutes. Peel and seed the peppers.  Cut into 1/2-inch pieces.

Butter a 15x10x2-inch glass baking dish.  Bring a large pot of salted
water to a boil; add the pasta and boil for 10 minutes.  Add the
asparagus amd artichokes; cook for about 4 minutes or until the pasta
is tender but still firm to the bite.  Drain well and transfer to a
large bowl. Add the olive oil and toss to coat.

Melt the butter in a heavy large saucepan over medium-high heat. Add
the flour and stir for 2 minutes.  Gradually add the milk, whisking
until smooth.  Cook, whisking frequently, until the sauce thickens,
about 8 minutes.  Remove from the heat.  Add the Fontina cheese and 2
1/4 cups of the Parmesan cheese; whisk until the cheese melts and the
sauce is smooth. Season with salt and pepper.

Add the cheese sauce, arugula and peppers to the pasta and vetetable
mixtrue and stir to coat.  Transfer to the prepared baking dish and
sprinkle with the remaining 3/4 cup of Parmesan cheese.  Cover with
foil. (Can be prepared up to 1 day ahead.  Refrigerate.  Let stand at
room temperature for 1 hout before continuing.)

Preheat the oven to350F.  Bake the pasta, covered, for about 50
minutes, until heated through.  Uncover and bake for about 10 minutes
longer, until the top is glazed.

Makes 8 servings.

[Taking It Easy; Karen Kaplan & Kristine Kidd] [Bon Appetit; March
1995]

Posted by Fred Peters.

