Title: Russian Cookery and Hints
Categories: Information, Russian
Yield: 1 servings
No Ingredients Found
NOTES : In Russia, everyday dishes are made with ground meat mixtures
prepared and served various ways. Tiny meatballs served with sauces as
appetizers or entrees are called bitky. The so-called Russian
hamburgers, kotletky, are characteristic everyday restaurant and
family fare. Kotletky differ from American

hamburgers in that kotletky are golden and crisp on the outside and
moist and tender on the inside. In Russian restaurants, they are
served plain or with sour cream, mushroom or tomato sauce and
accompanied by kasha, macaroni or potatoes. NOTES
: The Russian meat dish most known outside Russia is doubtless this
creation, which was named for a gourmet and bon vivant of the czarist
court, Count Paul Stroganoff. There are many recipes for the dish,
and this is just one of them. NOTES
: The 2nd most popular soup in Russia is based on beets and is called
borshch, or derivations of that name. Believed to have originated in
the Ukraine, the soup is made in many variations. It can be prepared
with only beets; it may include additional vegetables, with or
without meat; or it may include poultry or game. Borshch can be
served hot or cold, and it is generally garnished with sour cream.
The kind of borshch that is made in the Ukraine is very hearty. It
differs fromother varieties in that it includes garlic, tomatoes and
pork as well as beef and a great number of vegetables. All the kinds
of borshch are excellent soups and are particularly goos when
reheated. It is a one-dish meal, good for a winter supper. NOTES
: The Circassians were an ancient tribe that inhabited the western
part of the Caucasion Mountains, but their name has been used for all
the inhabitants of the Caucasus. In the past Circassian ladies were
noted for their beauty, and many of them introduced native dishes to
the courts of the sultans in Constantinople. Thus this creation is
popular in Turkey as well as in southern Russia. It makes an
excellent buffet dish. NOTES : In southern Russia, a favorite method
of preparing poultry is to serve either spitted or broiled chicken
with a sauce made with green gooseberries, pounded walnuts, sourcream
or fruits. One of the most typical sauces is tkemali, which is made
with a base of wild or sour plums that grow only in the Georgian
republic. It is not possible to duplicate the recipe outside of the
region, but a good substitute can be attempted. This is an excellent
entree for an outdoor meal. NOTES : Small oval or round plump
pastries made with nonsweet dough and filled with various food
combinations are called pirozhki. The term is derived from an old
Russian word PIR, meaning feast. Pirozhki are made with both raised
dough and plain pastry, and can be filled with mixtures based on
mushrooms, cabbage, chicken, ground beef or fish. Priozhki are
popular appetizers and also served with soups. Generally those that
will be used with soups are made a little larger, about 5 inches in
diameter. NOTES : Russians are extremely fond of pork, which they
prepare in interesting variations. On of their great hoiday treats is
roast sucklig pig stuffed with kasha. Other typical pork dishes, such
as this one, are served with fruit sauces. Plums may be substituted
for the cherries, if desired. NOTES : In Russia soups are basic
foods, ranking in importance after breads and grains. The most common
is made with cabbage and is called shchi, or s'chee. It is
particularly favored because it does not require a meat base. During
the summer the soup is made from fresh cabbage and is called "lazy";
while during the winter, sauerkraut is used, and the name is changed
to "sour". All the kinds of shchi are hearty dishes and are rich in
vitamins. The ingredients usually include whatever is on hand. Beef,
sausages and smoked pork add further sustenance to some of the
cabbage soups. Shchi can be served with kasha and garnished with sour
cream. This is one variation. NOTES : The best known Russian dessert
is a simple fruit pudding made by thickening cooked fruit with
cornstarch or potato starch. The preferred fruits are those with tart
flavors, such as cranberries, rhubarb, sour cherries or apples, but
all kinds of berries are used. The thickness can vary from that of
jelly to a bit more runny consistency. Customarily the dessert is
served with cream. Shared by: Dan Klepach

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   03-10-95

