Title: Salmon For Louise
Categories: Seafood
Yield: 1 servings
1/2 c  Sliced chanterelle
-mushrooms
1/4 c  Dry sherry
1/4 c  Fish stock
1/4 c  Cream
2 tb Madeira
-Creme Fraiche
-Cilantro sprigs
12 oz Fillets of salmon dusted
-with flour
1/4 c  Clarified butter
1/2 ts Minced garlic
1/2 ts Minced shallot
2 tb Julienne-cut roasted red
-Christy peppers
1 ts Chopped cilantro
Dust 2 6 oz fillets of salmon with flour. Shake off excess flour. In a
saute pan, heat clarified butter. Add fillets, and brown on one side;
turn. Add garlic, shallots, red peppers and chopped cilantro and
mushrooms. With fillets still in pan, deglaze with dry sherry. Add
fish stock. Reduce over hight heat for 2 to 3 minutes. Add cream.
Reduce until sauce thickens. Remove salmon  to heated serving plate.
To the sauce still in the pan, add 2 to 3 Tablespoons Madeira. Cook
only a minute more, long enough to evaporate the alcohol. Lace salmon
with sauce, garnish with a dollop of creme fraiche and a sprig of
cilantro.

***NOTES: When I made this dish, I didn't have fresh chanterelles, so
I used a couple of dried Shitake mushrooms which I soaked in hot
water for about 10 minutes before I rinsed and sliced them. I also
didn't use any cilantro because my husband hates it. I would have
loved it myself! The most important note to this recipe is NOT to
overcook the salmon. I cooked it until brown on the bottom, flipped
it, proceeded with the recipe, but removed the salmon right after
deglazing the pan in order to prevent the sa lmon from over an
overdry quality that is most unpleasant and a tremendous waste of a
good piece of fish. I used only the tail fillets for this dish,
eliminating the "bone" problem. I also had no idea exactly what a
Christy red pepper was, so I used some really lovely roasted red
pepper. The fish stock I made with the head, bones and tail of the
fish and added some celery, onion and peppercorns and bay leaf to the
fish stock, cooking it only 20 minutes to prevent bitterness of the
stock. I also strained the stock through cheesecloth to eliminate the
grey cloudy pieces. From the files of Al Rice, North Pole Alaska.
Feb 1994

