Title: Savory Vegetable Envelopes
Categories: Vegetables
Yield: 12 servings
2 ts Dried thyme
2 lg Onion(s), chopped
1/4 c  Parsley, chopped
3 tb Pure maple syrup
1/4 ts Ground ginger
1/2 c  Butter (1 stick), melted
12    Sheets phyllo dough
-fresh or frozen, thawed
2 c  Turnips, (1 lb)
-cut in 1/2" cubes
4 tb Plus 1/2 cup olive oil
2 c  Butternut squash, peeled
-cut in 1/2" cubes
2 c  Sweet potatoes or yams
-peeled, cut in 1/2" cubes
2 tb Garlic, chopped
1 1/2 tb Thyme, chopped or
Preheat oven to 350F. Toss turnips with 2 tbs oil on large baking
sheet to coat well. Bake 10 minutes. Add squash, sweet potatoes.
garlic and thyme and toss to coat with oil. Add salt and pepper to
taste. Bake until vegetables are tender, turning occasionally with
large spatula, about 25 minutes. Transfer vegetables to a medium bowl.

Meanwhile, heat 2 tbs oil in heavy large skillet over medium-high
heat. Add onions. Cover and cook until onions are golden brown,
stirring often, about 15 minutes. Add onions to vegetables. Mix in
parsley, maple syrup and ginger. Add salt and pepper to taste. Cool
completely.

Stir  cup oil in small bowl to blend. Lightly brush 2 heavy large
baking sheets with oil mixture. Place 1 phyllo sheet on work surface
with 1 short end at bottom (keep remaining phyllo covered with
plastic wrap and damp kitchen towel). Lightly brush phyllo sheet with
oil mixture; place generous 1/3 cup filling 1 inch from bottom in
middle of sheet. Fold right long side over filling, then fold left
long side over, forming rectangle about 4 inches wide by 18 inches
long. Brush lightly with oil mixture. Using spatula as aid, lift
section with filling and fold over snugly so that filling section
lies atop next 4 inches of pastry strip. Brush lightly with oil
mixture. Continue to fold filling section over until end of phyllo
strip is reached, forming 4-to-5-inch envelope. Brush lightly with
oil mixture. Repeat with remaining phyllo sheets and filling, forming
12 envelopes. Arrange 6 envelopes on each prepared baking sheet. Can
be prepare 1 day in advance. Cover tightly and chill.

Preheat oven to 425F. Bake uncovered until golden and crisp, about 20
minutes. Transfer to platter and serve.

Bon Appetite March 1995
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   03-14-95

