Title: Seafood Pie with Potato Crust
Categories: Main dish, Pie/tart, Fish, Irish
Yield: 8 servings
1 md Onion
2 md Leeks
2 tb Flour
1/2 lb Sea scallops
Cayenne pepper to taste
1/2 c  Heavy cream
1/2 c  Milk
1 lb Potatoes
2 lb Mussells, in their shells
6 ea Clams, large (Quahog)
1/2 lb Shrimp, unshelled
1 lb Cod
4 cl Garlic
5 tb Butter
6 ea Scallions
MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
2 tb Parsley, fresh, chopped
Preheat the oven to 350 degF. Wash, peel and slice potatoes, and put
with water to cover in a large saucepan, to boil until tender. Drain
and set aside. In the meantime, wash the mussels and the clams. Put 4
cups of water in the bottom of a large steamer, and place the 6 clams
in the top. Cover, and put on to boil.  As soon as you have steam,
put the mussels in as well, and as soon as the mussels open (about 3
minutes), take the steamer off the heat.  Remove the mussels and clam
meats from the shells, and set the liquor aside for later. Put 1 cup
of the reserved steamer liquor in a small saucepan, bring to a boil,
and take off the heat. Dump the unpeeled shrimp into the liquor, and
let them stand in it. Take another cup of the steamer liquor, put it
in a shallow pan, add the cod, cover, and poach for 8 to 10 minutes,
or until just done. Let it sit in the liquor until you need it. Peel
and chop the garlic (setting 1/2 a clove aside for the crust), and
fry it in 4 tablespoons of butter in a large frying pan for 3
minutes, or until soft.  Wash, peel, and chop the scallions, onion,
and leeks (setting 2 tablespoon of chopped scallion aside for the
crust), and add to the pan. Fry until limp. Coarsley chop the clams,
and add. Sprinkle the flour on, and with a wooden spoon, stir in. Now
gradually add the rest of the liquor from the steamer, about 2 cups,
and stir in with your wooden spoon. Reduce the heat to a simmer. Skin
and bone the cod, flake it, and add to the frying pan, with the cup
of poaching liquor. Shell the shrimp and add, with their liquor, to
the pan, stirring to mix thoroughly. Add the mussels. Slice the
scallops in half (into round sections), and add them. Then add the
cayenne pepper. Simmer for 2 minutes. Now stir in the heavy cream,
and simmer another 2 minutes, until thickened. To prepare the potato
crust, add the remaining tablespoon of butter, the 1/2 clove of
garlic (mince first), the reserved chopped scallion tops, and the
milk to the potatoes, and cream them with a hand masher in the
saucepan until smooth. Put the seafood pie filling into a 9" deep
dish pie pan.  Spoon the creamed potatoes on top, and, using a fork,
spread them evenly over the surface, making a furrow design.  Put the
pie in the oven for 25 minutes, or until nicely browned. Garnish with
chopped parsley, and serve.

Source: Irish Country Cooking - Malachi McCormick (c)1988
Submitted By GRANT AMES   On   03-09-95

