Title: Spanakopita (Spinach-Cheese Pie)
Categories: Middle east, Greek, Vegetables, Cheese/eggs
Yield: 8 servings
1/4 c  Parsley; finely chopped,
;prefer flat leaf parsley
1/2 ts Salt
Black pepper; freshly ground
1/3 c  Milk
1/2 lb Feta cheese; finely crumbled
4    Egg; lightly beaten
1/2 lb Butter; melted
16    Filo pastry sheets; « lb.
;each about 16 inches long &
;12 inches wide
1/4 c  Olive oil
1/2 c  Onion; finely chopped
1/4 c  Scallions; finely chopped
;including 2 inches of green
;tops
2 lb Spinach, fresh; washed,
;thoroughly drained & finely
;chopped
1/4 c  Dill leaves; fresh, finely
;chopped or 2 tablespoons
;dried dill weed
In a heavy 10 to 12 inch skillet, heat the olive oil over moderate
heat until a light haze forms above it.  Add the onions and scallions
and, stirring frequently, cook for 5 minutes, or until they are soft
and transparent but not brown.  Stir in the spinach, cover tightly,
and cook for 5 minutes.  then add the dill, parsley, salt and a few
grindings of pepper and, stirring and shaking the pan almost
constantly, cook uncovered for about 10 minutes, or until most of the
liquid in the skillet has evaporated and the spinach has begun to
stick lightly to the pan. Transfer the spinach mixture to a dep bowl
and stir in the milk. cool to room temperature, then add the cheese
and slowly beat in the eggs. Taste for seasoning.
Preheat the oven to 300 degrees (F).  With a pastry brush, coat the
bottom and sides of a 12 by 7 by 2 inch baking dish with melted
butter. Line the dish with a sheet of filo, pressing the edges of the
pastry firmly into the corners and against the sides of the dish.
Brush the entire surface of the pastry with about 2 or 3 teaspoons of
the remaining butter, spreading it all the way to the outside edges
and lay another sheet of filo on top.  Spread with another 2 or 3
teaspoons of butter and continue construction the pie in this fashion
until you have used 8 layers of the filo in all.
With a rubber spatula, spread the spinach mixture evenly over the
last layer of filo and smooth it into the corners.  Then place
another sheet of the filo on top, coat with butter, and repeat with
the remaining layers of filo and butter as before.  Trim the excess
pastry from around the rim of the dish with scissors.  Brush the top
of the pie with the remaining butter and bake in the middle of the
oven for 1 hour, or until the pastry is crisp and delicately browned.
Cut into squares and serve hot or at room temperature.

82 of 116

Source: Time Life Series: Middle Eastern Cooking  "crica  69"

MMed by: earl.cravens@salata.com
Submitted By EARL CRAVENS   On   03-11-95

