Title: Spiced Apple-Walnut Layer Cake
Categories: Cake/cookie, Fruit, Nuts/grains
Yield: 1 servings
1 c  Firmly packed dark brown
-sugar
3 tb Milk
1 c  Powdered sugar
-Pinch of salt
1 ts Vanilla extract
1    To 2 tablespoons sour
-cream
-Maple-Marshmallow
-Frosting
2/3 c  Pure maple syrup or maple
-flavored syrup
2 lg Egg whites
2 tb Light brown sugar Pinch of
-salt
12    Marshmallows (do not use
-miniature), each cut into
8    Pieces
12    Walnut halves
-Cake
2 1/2 c  Cake flour
2 ts Baking powder
2 ts Baking soda
2 ts Ground cinnamon
1 ts Ground allspice
1 ts Salt
1 c  Walnuts, toasted
1 lb Tart green apples, peeled,
-cored, cut into 1-inch
-pieces
2 c  Sugar
4 lg Eggs
1 c  (2 stiicks) unsalted
-butter, cut into 8 pieces,
-room temperature
2 tb Rum
2 ts Fresh lemon juice
-Ponucho Glaze
2 tb Unsalted butter
The glaze spread between the cake layers derives from the old-time
penuche candy, a brown sugarfudge. For an even quicker version, omit
the glaze and spread just the frosting between and over the cake
layers. 12 servings

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 325!F. Butter two
9-inch diameter cake pans with 2-inch-high sides. Line pan bottoms
with parchment or waxed paper. Butter paper. Dust pans with flour;
tap out excess.

For cake: Insert Steel Knife. Place flour, baking powder, baking soda,
cinnamon, allspice and salt in work bowl. Process to "sift," about 5
seconds. Add walnuts and chop medium fine, using on/off turns.
Transfer contents of work bowl to sheet of waxed paper.

Place apple pieces in work bowl. Process until pureed, stopping to
scrape down sides of bowl as necessary, about 2 minutes. Add sugar
and eggs. Process until mixture is thickened, about 1 minute. Add
butter and process until mixture is well blended, about 1 minute.
Scrape down sides of bowl. Add rum and lemon juice. Process to blend.

Transfer apple mixture to large bowl. Stir in dry ingredients. Divide
batter between prepared pans. Bake until tester inserted in center of
cakes comes out clean, about 50 minutes. Cool cakes in pans on racks
20 minutes. Turn out onto racks and cool.

For glaze: Cook butter in heavy medium saucepan over medium heat until
light brown, swirling pan occasionally about 2 minutes. Add brown
sugar and milk and simmer until blended and mixture thickens,
stirring frequently about 1 minute. Place powdered sugar and salt in
clean work bowl and process to remove any lumps. Add hot brown sugar
mixture and vanilla. Process to mix, about 5 seconds. Add 1
tablespoon sour cream and process to blend. Add remaining sour cream
if necessary to form smooth, thin glaze.

Place 1 cake layer on serving platter. Spread with half of glaze. Top
with second cake layer. Spread with remaining glaze. Let glaze set
for 20 minutes.

Meanwhile, prepare frosting. Place syrup, egg whites, sugar and salt
in top of double boiler over simmering water. Using electric mixer at
medium speed, beat frosting until it mounds firmly, about 4 minutes.
Add marshmallows. Beat at lowest speed until marshmallows are melted
and frosting is smooth about 4 minutes. Remove from over water. Cool
to room temperature.

Spread frosting over top and sides of cake. Place walnut halves
around edge of cake. (Can be prepared 8 hours ahead. Let stand at
room temperature.)

From the files of Al Rice, North Pole Alaska.    Feb 1994

