Title: Standard Pastry,2-Crust,10-In1
Categories: Rice
Yield: 8 servings
1 ts Salt
7 To 8 tb Cold water
1 c  Shortening or 3/4 cup Plus
-2 tb lard
2 2/3 c  All-purpose flour*
*if using self-rising flour omit Salt.

Pie crusts made with self-rising flour differ in flavor and texture.
Cut shortening into flour and salt until particles are size of small
peas. Sprinkle in water, 1 tablespoon at a time, tossing with fork
until all flour is moistened and pastry almost cleans side of bowl (1
to 2 teaspoons water can be added if necessary).Gather pastry into a
ball. Shape into flattened round on lightly floured, cloth-covered
board.Roll pastry 2 inches larger than inverted pie plate with
floured cloth-covered rolling pin. Fold pastry into fourths; place in
pie place. Unfold and ease into plate, pressing firmly against bottom
and side.For Baked Pie Shell: Heat oven to 475 degrees. Prick bottom
and side thoroughly with fork. Bake 8 to 10 or until light brown;
cool.Turn desired filling into pastry-lined pie plate. Trim
overhanging edge of pastry 1/2 inch from rim of plate.  Roll other
round of pastry. Fold into fourths and cut slits so steam can
escape.Place over filling and unfold. Trim overhangi edge of pastry 1
inch from rim of plate. Fold and roll top edge under lower edge,
pressing on rim to seal; flute. 8 SERVINGS PIE CRUST.LATTICE TOP:
Leave 1-inch overhang on crust. After rolling circle for top crust,
cut into strips about 1/2 inch wide. (Use a pastry wheel for
decorative strips.)Place 5 to 7 strips across filling in pie plate.
Weave a cross-strip through center by first folding back every other
strip going the other way. Continue weaving until lattice is
complete, folding back alternate strips each time cross-strip is
added. (To save time, do not weave strips. Simply lay second half of
strips across first strips.) Trim ends of strips.Fold trimmed edge of
lower crust over ends of strips, building up a high edge. Seal and
flute. (A juicy fruit pie with a lattice top is more likely to bubble
over than a two-crust pie so a high pastry edge is important.) Food
Processor Directions: Measure 4 tablespoons water into small bowl.
Place shortening, flour and salt in food processor. Cover and
process, using quick on-and-off motions, until mixture is crumbly.
With food processor running, pour water all at once through feed tube
just until dough leaves side of bowl (dough should not form ball).
Continue as directed. 8 SERVINGS PIE CRUST; 360 CALORIES PER SERVING.

