Title: Stuffed Tomatoes Plain and Fancy
Categories: Mom's, Salads, Vegetables
Yield: 1 servings
No Ingredients Found
Source: Mom's recipe clippings- 1940's through 70's. FOR CUPS. Allow 1
peeled tomato for each serving. Cut Off 1/4" to 1/2" slice from stem
end. With teaspoon, scoop out pulp from tomato, leaving tomato cup.
(Save pulp for sauce, stewed tomatoes, etc.) Chill, inverted. To
serve, sprinkle inside well with salt; fill as below. FOR FLOWER
CUPS. Cut peeled tomato into 5 or 6 sections almost to stem end.
Spread apart slightly- season- fill as below. Calico-Stuffed. Toss
chilled, cooked limas and green beans; tiny raw cauliflowerets; and
sliced radishes with French dressing. Jambalaya Style. Make
Shrimp-and-Rice Salad (page 103).

Tuna-Filled. Make Tuna Salad (page 103) or Salmon Salad (page 103).
Chicken-Stuffed. Make Homey Chicken or Hawaiian Salad (page 105). EASY
STUFFED TOMATOES- they're just topped Cut out stem of chilled, peeled
tomato. Slice in half crosswise. Firmly pack one of following
toppings into custard cup; then unmold on tomato half. Or place
green-pepper ring on tomato half; spoon in filling. 'Tater-Topped.
Line custard cup with grated canned luncheon meat; or sprinkle crisp
bacon bits in cup, fill with Rich Potato Salad (page 88).
Macaroni-Topped. Make Best-Ever Macaroni Salad (page 88).
Cheese-Topped. Make Curried Cheese (page 90) or Deviled Cheese
(above); spoon into green-pepper ring. Nested Egg. Make Chunky Egg
Salad (page 105); spoon into green pepper ring. TOMATO ROSE- for
state occasions For each serving, allow 1 chilled medium tomato and
1/3 6-oz. pkg. chive cream cheese. To make rose, form 2 rows of
petals on tomato by pressing level teaspoonful of cheese against side
of tomato, then drawing spoon down with curving motion. Serve on
lettuce, romaine, or water cress tossed with French dressing. TUNA
TWIRL- extra-special with hothouse tomatoes Allow 1 peeled, chilled
tomato for each serving. To make tomato twirl, thickly peel tomato
round and round, just as you would an orange. Re-coil on plate, and
fill with Tuna Salad (page 103). CHEESE TWIRL. Fill with seasoned
cottage cheese. VEGETABLE TWIRL. Fill with Vegetable-Cheese Tossup
(page 88). AVOCADO TWIRL. Fill with Guacamole (page 88). SLAW TWIRL.
Fill with Chopped Coleslaw (page 90). FAN-TANS- it's the cut that
makes the difference Allow 1 chilled, peeled tomato for each serving.
Slice tomatoes in vertical slices (French way) not quite through.
Fill as follows: Macaroni Fan-Tans. Use Best-Ever Macaroni Salad
(page 88). Cucumber-Tomato. Use Cucumbers in Sour Cream (page 88)
drain. Egg Fan-Tans. Use Deviled Eggs (page 104). Cut eggs crosswise
instead of lengthwise- put halves back together; chill. Slice
crosswise; insert several egg slices between tomato slices. Cheese
Fan-Tans. Slice chilled process cheese food (kind that comes in
rolls) 1/8" thick. Insert between tomato slices; top with dressing.
CART WHEELS- fine design Remove thin slice from stem end of peeled
tomato. Hollow out tomato with small spoon (demitasse spoon is
ideal), being careful to keep ribs of tomato intact. Fill with any of
following; chill overnight. Slice thickly and place several slices on
crisp greens. Olive-Cheese. Mix chopped ripe olives with soft cream
cheese. Cheese Spreads. Use smoky, cheese-and-bacon, relish, pimento,
or sharp cheese spread, at room temperature. Shrimp Spread. Mix
flaked, cleaned, cooked or canned shrimp with soft cream cheese and
dash of lemon juice. Tangy Cheese. Season finely grated process
American Cheddar cheese with pickle relish, mustard, and
Worcestershire; mix well.

Submitted By SALLIE KREBS   On   03-11-95

