Title: Swedish Sm Kttbullar (Swedish Small Meatballs)
Categories: Appetizers, Beef, Main dish
Yield: 50 servings
1 ts Salt
1    Egg
1 tb Parsley; fine chopped
-- (optional)
2 tb Butter
2 tb Vegetable oil
1 tb Butter
4 tb Onion; finely chopped
1 lg Potato; boiled
-- mashed (1 c)
3 tb Bread crumbs; fine dry
1 lb Ground beef; lean
1/3 c  Cream; heavy
MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
3/4 c  Cream; light or heavy
1 tb Flour
In a small frying pan, melt 1 tb. of butter over moderate heat. When
the foam subsides, add the onions and cook for about 5 minutes, until
they are soft and translucent but not brown.

In a large bowl, combine the onions, mashed potato, bread crumbs,
meat, cream, salt, egg and optional parsley. Knead vigorously with
both hands or beat with a wooden spoon until all of the ingredients
are well blended and the mixture is smooth and fluffy. Shape into
small balls about 1" in diameter. Arrange the meatballs in one layer
on a baking sheet or flat tray, cover with plastic and chill for at
least 1 hour before cooking.

Over high heat, melt 2 tb. butter and 2 tb. oil in a heavy skillet.
When the foam subsides, add the meatballs, 8 to 10 at a time. Reduce
the heat to moderate and fry the balls on all sides, shaking the pan
almost constantly to roll them around in the hot fat to help keep
their shape. In 8 to 10 minutes the meatballs should be brown outside
and show no trace of pink inside when one is broken open with a
knife. Add more butter and oil to the skillet as needed and transfer
each finished batch to a casserole or baking dish and keep warm in a
200F. oven.

If the meatballs are to be served as a main course with noodles or
potatoes, you may want to make a sauce with the pan juices. Remove
from the heat, pour off all fat from the pan and stir in 1 tb. of
flour. Quickly stir in 3/4 cup cream (light or heavy) and boil over
moderate heat for 2 or 3 minutes, stirring constantly, until it is
thick and smooth. Pour over meatballs and serve.

If the meatballs are to be served as an hors d'oeuvre or as part of a
smrogsbord, they should be cooked as above, but formed into smaller
balls and served without the sauce.

Serves 6 to 8 or about 50 meatballs.

Source: Time/Life Foods of the World, Recipes: The Cooking of
Scandinavia (1968) Typos by .\ichele

