Title: Tamale Pie
Categories: Main dish, Healthy
Yield: 8 servings
-- well drained
1 1/2 c  Corn kernels, frozen
1 tb Chili powder; or to taste
1 ts Ground cumin
1/4 ts Salt; optional
1/4 ts Black pepper
ds Cayenne pepper; optional
1 pk Corn tortillas, 6-inch round
1 lb Ground round
1 lg Onion; finely chopped
1 lg Green bell pepper
-- seeded and diced
1    Garlic clove; minced
2 cn (15 oz) tomato sauce
4 c  Cooked kidney beans
-- or
2 cn (16 oz) kidney beans
Recipe by: Skinny One-Pot Meals - ISBN 0-940625-75-X

CONVENTIONAL METHOD:

Preheat oven to 350 F.

In a 3-qt flame-proof, oven-proof casserole, combine ground round,
onion, green pepper, and garlic. Cook over medium heat, stirring
frequently, until beef has changed color. Remove casserole from
burner.

Turn out meat mixture onto large plate lined with paper towels to
absorb any excess fat. Return to casserole. Add tomato sauce, kidney
beans, corn, chili powder, cumin, salt, if desired, black pepper, and
cayenne pepper, if desired. Stir to mix well. Scoop out 5 cups of
mixture and reserve in medium-sized bowl.

Lay half the tortillas over mixture remaining in casserole,
overlapping can covering entire surface. Add 2 1/2 cups of reserved
meat and bean mixture over tortillas, spreading it out with back of
spoon. Lay remaining tortillas over mixture in casserole, overlapping
and covering entire surface. Top with remaining meat and bean
mixture, spreading it out evenly over tortillas.

Bake, uncovered, 45 to 50 mins or until sauce begins to buble and
flavors are well blended.

MICROWAVE METHOD (NOTE: tested in 900 watt microwave. Adjust times
accordingly).  In 2 1/2-qt microwave-safe cassrole, stir together
ground round, onion, green pepper, and garlic. Cover and microwave on
high 6 to 8 mins, stirring meat and breaking it up 1 or 2 times
during microwaving, until meat is cooked through. With large spoon,
break up any remaining large pieces of meat.

Turn out meat mixture onto large plate lined with paper towels to
absorb any excess fat. Return to casserole. Add tomato sauce, kidney
beans, corn, chili powder, cumin, salt, if desired, black pepper, and
cayenne pepper, if desired.

Stir to mix well. Layer casserole with tortillas as directed above
under "conventional method".

Cover with casserole lid and microwave on high 15 to 17 mins or until
mixture is heated through and flavors are well blended. Allow
casserole to rest on flat surface 5 mins before serving.

NUTRITIONAL DATA (based on 8 servings) Per Serving: Calories 363 Fat
(gm) 8.9 Sat. fat (gm) 2.9 Cholesterol (mg) 35 Sodium (mg) 744
51 % Calories from fat 21
Protein (gm) 23 Carbohydrate (gm)

