Title: The Deceptions of Ground Turkey - Butter Busters^
Categories: Healthy, Main dish
Yield: 1 ----------
1 x  Text File
Since we have all discovered that we can substitute ground turkey for
ground beef to reduce the saturated fat in our diets, we are all
rejoicing. We can still have chili, tacos, lasagne, etc. However, as
we purchase our new found freedom, we all need to be aware of a few
things. The ground turkey you buy in the grocery store that has been
ground there has no mutritional values on the package. You really
don't have any idea of what you are purchasing. You will find this
package of ground turkey to be a lot cheaper, but please don't be
misled. This package contains white meat, dark meat, skin and fat.
This harmless package of ground turkey could end up being higher in
fat content than the package of lean ground beef sitting right next
to it in the store. Your next choice is the commercially packaged
ground turkey. These packages do contain nutritional values. The only
problem is they also use white and dark meat. Although you do know
how many fat grams are in the package, it may be more than you
realize. This is when you need to be aware of serving sizes. One
pound of commercially fround turkey contains 28 fat grams. Although
it is a lot better than the package with no nutritional values, you
can still do much better. Your best choice is to purchase packages of
white meat turkey breast. Simply ask the butcher in the grocery store
to please remove the skin and grind it for you. They will be most
accomodating. By taking a few extra minutes to have your white meat
ground at the store, you will be saving a tremendous amount of fat
grams. One pound of fresh ground white turkey meat, without the skin,
is a mere 4.8 fat grams. That is a difference of 23.20 fat grams per
pound. It is well worth the time and trouble, in my opinion. The
options are up to you. Per serving: Butter Busters by Pam Mycoskie
ISBN 0-466-67040-5 Entered by Carolyn Shaw 2-95.

Submitted By CAROLYN SHAW   On   02-22-95

