Title: UKRAINIAN EASTER PASKA
Categories: Holiday, Breads, Penndutch, Desserts
Yield: 1 servings
From South Russia by Norma
-Jost Voth.
Ukrainian Easter Paska
The following recipe is
-from the book Mennonite
-Foods and Folkways
Frieda Lehn Neufeld shares this authentic Ukrainian recipe, handed
down from her grandmother.  Frieda usually adds the Russian ritual
prayer, "Bog na pomotsch" (God help me), which her grandmother taught
her to say before baking this bread.  The  original recipe called for
24 eggs. This is 1/8 the original. 1/3 cup lukewarm water 3 eggs,
1  cup sugar 1
separated and beaten 1 Tbsp. active dry yeast
tsp. sugar 1 1/2 tsp. salt (optional) 1 cup half-and-half grated rind
of 1/2 lemon 1/3 cup bread flour 5-6 cups bread flour 1/2 cup butter
or margarine 1) Sprinkle yeast and 1 tsp. sugar over warm water, stir
briskly and allow to become bubbly. 2) Over medium heat bring
half-and-half to boil.  Stir in 1/3 cup flour and beat well.  Add
butter to hot mixture and beat again. Cool to lukewarm. 3) Separate
eggs.  Beat whites until stiff, but not dry.  Set aside. 4) Beat
yolks, adding 1 cup sugar gradually, beating until thick and lemon
colored. Stir into milk and butter mixture.  Add salt, grated lemon
rind and yeast dissolved in water. 5) **Gently** fold in egg whites.
Gradually add flower(saving 1 cup to use on the kneading board if you
are kneading by hand) until the dough is similar in consistency to
dinner roll dough. Knead until smooth and elastic. Place in a greased
bowl and cover with plastic wrap.  Set in a warm place to rise until
doubled in bulk.  Punch down. (Tester Jennie Duerksen added half the
flour before folding in the egg whites.  This is an optional method.)
6) Divide the dough into 2 or 3 equal parts.  Shape into round balls.
Place each in a greased, round 9" pan od 3-lb. shortening or coffee
can. Cover with a clean kitchen towel and set in a warm place until
doubled in size. Bake at 375 degree F. for about 40 minutes (or 30
minutes at 350 F.) or until done.  Place grocery bag over top of
loaves if they are getting to brown.  Remove from pans, Cool on
racks.Frost with powered sugar icing. -Katherine Epp Bartel -Ann
Bartel Lehn -Frieda Lehn Neufeld Typos by Chester Dick

Submitted By PAT STOCKETT   On   03-10-95

