Title: Using a Weber Grill as a Smoker
Categories: Bbq/grill, Information
Yield: 1 servings  How to use a Weber grill as a smoker: With a kettle grill (or any
covered grill) and a wok, you can get that real smokehouse flavor at
home. The advantage is that your meat and poultry will retain much
more moisture, and they can be seasoned with the smoky aromas of
hickory or mesquite. Here's how to start. What you'll need is a
kettle (Weber) grill, a Chinese wok with a lid, but without wooden
handles, and a charcoal chimney that will enable you to load the
grill with smoking coals. The chimney is available in most cookware
stores and some hardware stores. It's inexpensive and worth its
weight in gold.  You'll need some trimmings of hickory, mesquite,
alderwood, or any of the fruit woods.  The trimmings should be soaked
in water for at least 30 minutes before you add them. Remove the top
grill or grate from the kettle and place the wok in the middle of the
bottom charcoal grate.  Cover the wok with its lid and add the coals
around the outside of the wok. Here's where the charcoal chimney
really earns its keep.  It's easier and faster to start your coals in
the chimney and pour them around the covered wok than to get them lit
in the grill at this point. Remove the lid from the wok and fill the
wok about 2/3 full with your basting liquid. You can really be
creative by adding any leftover marinades, apple cider (if you're
smoking a pork loin or turkey), orange juice for duck, red wine for
beef, etc. When the charcoal is ash gray, add the wet smoking woods,
replace the top grill, and position your meat or fish directly over
the wok. Cover the grill with its lid and follow the instructions for
indirect cooking times with your covered grill for various types
meats and fish. This method is called "indirect" because the food is
never placed directly over its heat source. Finally, a safety tip:
When you remove your succulent, marinated creation from the grill or
smoker, don't put it back in the container in which you marinated it
because bacteria are still present.  Either clean the dish thoroughly
and keep it warm in the oven until serving time or simply get another
dish. Protect yourself.

Source: "Marinades" by Jim Tarantino

per serving:
Approx. Cook Time: Cholesterol per
Calories
grams per serving:
serving: Marks:

Submitted By MICHELLE BASS   On   03-12-95

