Title: What Makes a Salad?
Categories: Mom's, Salads
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM----------------SOURCE: MY MOTHER'S RECIPE C---------------------
-70's
Newspapers from the 40's to
MMMMM--------------------FROM : SALLIE KREBS-------------------------
Good fresh greens plus a fine dressing will give you a salad that's
perfect for chicken on Sunday and every other dinner in the week! BY
DOROTHY KIRK Food Editor A GOOD salad is a high point of any meal no
matter when it makes its appearance. Endive with an herb dressing-
one of the simplest- starts a dinner off famously and a nicely
dressed green salad is wonderful with or after the main course. In
summertime a chef's salad of tossed greens, slivers of meat, cheese
and hard-cooked egg is a main course in itself. And any time a salad
with chunks of fruit- fresh, canned or mixed- makes an ideal dessert.
Here's help with putting your salad together. When you buy your salad
greens look for the perkiest freshest ones your grocer has. Wash
greens in cold water. Loosely packed greens like water cress, Boston
lettuce, chicory and escarole should be taken apart, washed leaf by
leaf. Float whole heads of firmly packed greens in cold water- or
hold under faucet. If greens need extra crisping let them stand in
ice water about fifteen minutes. Dry greens by draining them on rack
or absorbent paper- or by gently shaking or patting in a clean towel.
Chill greens in crisping pan- or in a plastic storage bag- or in a
damp cloth. Keep them away from the freezing unit! When you make your
salad tear the crisp greens into bite-size pieces- no cutting,
please, except for endive and Chinese cabbage. Use a variety of
greens (see the list at far right) and sometimes add color with thin
slices of radish, carrots and other cooked or raw vegetables, chunks
of of fruit. Your favorite French dressing and your salad should be
tossed just before serving or- better still- right at the, table.
But- warning!- not too much and not too far ahead or your nice
crunchy salad will be very sad and sodden. A good salad dressing is a
bit of culinary wizardly that s intensely individual- and the best
dressing you can serve is the one that pleases you and your family.
We give you a basic dressing recipe here; you'll want to vary it- to
taste! Our basic dressing calls for vinegar or lemon juice. You may
prefer lemon juice all the time, then again you might like to switch
to a wine vinegar or one of the herb-flavored ones. THIS IS THE BASIC
DRESSING Salt, 1 teaspoon Paprika, 1 teaspoon Sugar, 1/2 teaspoon Dry
mustard, 1/2 teaspoon Pepper, 1/4 teaspoon Vinegar or lemon juice,
1/3 cup Salad or olive oil (or part of both), 1 cup Onion, minced, 1
tablespoon Garlic, 1/2 clove Combine ingredients in a jar with a
tight cover, then shake until thoroughly mixed. Chill. Shake it up
again and remove garlic just before serving. Makes 1 1/3 cups. TO
DRESS UP A DRESSING When you add a new seasoning. be sure to give it
time to blend in. Start with your basic dressing, then vary it to...
Roquefort- add 1/4 cup crumbled Roquefort or blue cheese. Curry- add
1/4 teaspoon curry powder. Chili sauce or ketchup- add 1/3 cup of
either one. Herb- add 2 teaspoons mixed dried herbs; say, tarragon,
basil and marjoram. Anchovy- add 4 (undrained) snipped into small
pieces. Chiffonade- add 1 small beet and 1 hard-cooked egg- both
finely chopped- to dressing just before serving.

Submitted By SALLIE KREBS   On   03-04-95

