Title: WHITE CHOC-COCONUT CHEESECAKE 2
Categories: Desserts, Chocolate, Godiva
Yield: 12 servings  Continued:

Make the filling:
Position a rack in the lower third of the oven and reduce the oven
temperature to 325 degrees F. Using two large pieces of heavy-duty
aluminum foil, tightly wrap the outside of the pan.

In a medium saucepan combine the milk and the toasted coconut and
bring
to a boil. Reduce the heat and simmer for 5 minutes. Remove the
pan from
the heat and cover. Steep the mixture for 30 minutes. Strain the
coconut
milk, pressing the solids to extract all of the liquid: you
should have
3/4 cup of liquid.

In the 4 1/2-quart bowl of a heavy duty mixer using the paddle
attachment, beat the cream cheese at low speed for 1 minute, until
creamy. Gradually add the sugar in a steady stream and heat at
medium
speed until blended. Add the corn starch. Scrape down the side of
the
bowl and beat 30 seconds longer. At medium-low speed, one at a
time, add
the eggs, beating well after each addition. Gradually add the
strained
coconut milk and beat until blended. Beat in the vanilla and the
rum.

Pour the filling into the prepared pan. Sprinkle the white
chocolate
chunks evenly over the filling.
Sprinkle the prepared coconut topping over the center of the
cheesecake,
leaving a 1-inch plain border around the rim of the cheesecake.
Place the cheesecake in a high-sided roasting pan on the lower
rack of
the oven. Pour boiling water into the roasting pan so that the
water
comes half way up the side of the springform pan. Bake the cheese
cake
for 70 to 80 minutes, until the sides are puffy and the center
quivers.
Leave the cheesecake in the pan in the oven and turn off the
oven. Prop
open the door of the oven with a wooden spoon and allow the
cheesecake
to cool down slowly in the oven for 30 minutes.

Remove the cheesecake from the roasting pan and remove the foil
from
around the outside of the springform pan. Run a thin-bladed knife
around
the inside of the pan to release the cheesecake from the side of
the
pan. This will prevent the top of the cheesecake from cracking.
Cool the
cheesecake in the pan set on a wire rack. Refrigerate uncovered
for at
least 8 hours or overnight.

Garnish the cheesecake:
Run a thin-bladed knife around the edge of the cheesecake to
loosen it
from the side of the pan. Unclamp and remove the side of the
springform
pan. Gently press the chocolate wafer crumbs onto the side of the
cheesecake. Dust the top with confectioners' sugar and decorate
with
white chocolate curls, if desired

Slide a metal cake spatula under the cheesecake to loosen it from
the
bottom of the springform pan. Slide two long metal cake spatulas
underneath the cheesecake and transfer to a serving plate.

Cut the cheesecake with a sharp, thin-bladed knife, dipping the
blade in
hot water and wiping it dry after each slice.

- Paige LaCava
Submitted By CHARLENE DEERING   On   03-13-95

