Title: WHITE CHOC MOCHA NAPOLEONS 2
Categories: Desserts, Chocolate, Godiva
Yield: 6 servings  Continued:

Using a large knife, cut each of the squares in half diagonally
to form
8 triangles. Using a small knife, carefully slice each triangle
in half
crosswise to form two thin layers from each triangle. There will
be a
total of 16 triangles. You will need 12 triangles for this
recipe. The
extra are in case of breakage.

Make the dark mocha sauce:
Melt the chocolate with the coffee according to the directions in
the
Chocolate Key. In a small saucepan bring the cream to a
gentle boil. Gradually whisk the cream into the melted chocolate
until
smooth. Stir in the vanilla and coffee liqueur. The sauce may be
made up
to 5 days in advance and refrigerated, covered, until serving.
Reheat
the sauce over simmering water before serving.

Make the creme anglaise:
In a heavy, medium non-corrosive saucepan, bring the milk, cream
and
vanilla bean to a gentle boil over medium low heat. Cover the pan,
remove it from the heat and let the mixture stand for 15 minutes.
Remove
the vanilla bean pieces. Using a small, sharp knife, scrape the
tiny
black seeds from the inside of the vanilla bean into the milk
mixture.

In a medium bowl, whisk the egg yolks and sugar until blended.
Gradually
whisk the warm milk mixture into the yolk mixture until blended.
Return
this mixture back to the saucepan. Continue cooking over
medium-low
heat, stirring constantly with a wooden spoon for 2 to 4 minutes,
or
until the custard has thickened slightly. It is done when you can
run
your finger down the back of the custard-coated spoon and a path
remains
in the custard for several seconds. Do not let the custard come
to a
boil.

Remove the pan from the heat and immediately strain the custard
into a
noncorrosive metal bowl. Place the bowl in a larger bowl of iced
water
and stir the custard for 10 to 15 minutes, or until cold. (The
creme
anglaise sauce may be prepared up to two days in advance, cooled,
covered with plastic wrap and refrigerated.)

Assemble the napoleons:
Remove the white chocolate and mocha mascarpone creams from the
refrigerator. In their separate bowls, whisk each of the creams
to soft
peaks.

In a large chilled bowl, combine the remaining 3/4 cup heavy
cream from
the white chocolate mascarpone cream with the remaining 3/4 cup
heavy
cream from the mocha mascarpone cream. Using a handheld electric
mixer,
beat the cream at medium-high speed to soft peaks. Do not
overbeat.
Using a large rubber spatula, gently fold one-half of the whipped
cream
(about 1 1/2 Cups) into the white chocolate mascarpone cream.
Fold the
remaining whipped cream into the mocha mascarpone cream.

Fill two pastry bags fitted with medium star tips (such as Ateco
#5)
with each of the creams. Place a puff pastry triangle on a work
surface.
Dust the triangle with confectioners' sugar. Pipe a layer of mocha
mascarpone cream onto the triangle. Top with another puff
triangle. Dust
with confectioners' sugar. Pipe a layer of white chocolate
mascarpone
cream over the second triangle. Garnish the napoleon with a
chocolate-covered espresso bean. Repeat this layering process
with the
remaining puff pastry triangles to form a total of six napoleons.

Spoon some dark mocha sauce on a dessert plate. Fill a squeeze
bottle
with creme anglaise sauce. Pipe a spiral of creme anglaise over
the
mocha sauce. Draw a toothpick from the center of the plate to the
edge,
all around the plate at 1-inch intervals. Place a napoleon in the
center
of the plate. Dust with cocoa powder, if desired. Serve
immediately.

- Tish
Boyle Submitted By CHARLENE DEERING   On   03-13-95

