Title: Yalantzi Dolmathes (Steamed Grape Leaves with (see dirs.)
Categories: Middle east, Greek, Appetizers, Vegetarian
Yield: 30 servings
2 tb Pine nuts; (pignolia)
2 tb Dried currants
40    Grape leaves, preserved
2 tb Cold water
Lemon wedges
6 tb Olive oil
1 c  Onion; finely chopped
1/3 c  Long grain rice; or medium
3/4 c  Water
1/2 ts Salt
Black pepper; freshly ground
MMMMM----------------SILVER XPRESS MAIL SYSTEM 5.---------------------
Name; Steamed Grape Leaves with Rice, Pine Nut and Currant Stuffing

In a heavy 10 to 12 inch skillet, heat 3 tablespoons of the olive
oil over moderate heat until a light haze forms above it.  Add the
onions and, stirring frequently, cook fro 5 minutes, or until they
are soft and transparent but not brown.  Add the rice and stir
constantly for 2 to 3 minutes, or until the grains are coated with
oil. Do not let them brown. Pour in the water, add the salt and a few
grindings of pepper and bring to a boil over high heat.  Reduce the
heat to low, cover tightly, and simmer for about 15 minutes, or until
the rice is tender and has absorbed all the liquid.  In a small
skillet, heat 1 tablespoon of the remaining olive oil and in it cook
the pine nuts until they are a delicate brown. Add them to the rice,
then stir in the currants.
In a large pot, bring 2 quarts of water to a boil over high heat.
Drop in the grape leaves and immediately turn off the heat.  Let the
leaves soak for 1 minute, then drain them in a sieve and plunge them
into a bowl or pan of cold water to cool them quickly.  Gently
separate the leaves and spread them, dull sides up, on paper towels
to drain.
Layer the bottom of a heavy 2 to 3 quart casserole with 10 of the
leaves. Stuff each of the remaining 30 leaves with about 1 tablespoon
of the rice mixture.  Stack the stuffed leaves, side by side and seam
sides down, in layers in the casserole and sprinkle them with the
remaining 2 tablespoons of oil and the cold water. Place the
casserole over high heat for 3 minutes, reduce the heat to low and
simmer, tightly covered, for 50 minutes.  Then uncover and cool to
room temperature.
To serve, arrange the stuffed grape leaves attractively on a
platter or individual plates and garnish with lemon wedges.

3 of 117

Source: Time Life Series: Middle Eastern Cooking  "circa '69"

MMed by: earl.cravens@salata.com
Beach, CA * 310-543-0439 28.8k (1:102/125)
Submitted By MICHELLE BRUCE   On   03-02-95

