Title: MARINATED FRIED GREEN TOMATOES
Categories: Vegetables, Diana
Yield: 6 Servings
3 lb Green tomatoes
2 c  Water
1 tb English mustard -- powder
4 tb Tomato paste
2 tb Peanut oil -- divided
4 tb Cider vinegar
4 tb Soy sauce
4 tb Honey
2 ts Salt -- divided
1 ts Celery salt
2 ds Cayenne
5 tb Cornstarch
1 c  Flour
Prepare and start marinating the tomatoes early in the day. Cut the
stem button out of each tomato and cut it in half lengthwise. Trim
off a small slice on the round side of each tomatoe half and discard
it. Then cut each half, lengthwise, into 2 slices, each about
1/2    inch thick.  Pack the tomato slices into a bowl. In a
saucepan, slowly stir the 2 cups of water into the mustard powder and
tomato paste until the mixture is smooth.  Add the 2 tablespoons of
oil, the vinegar, soy sauce, honey, the 2 teaspoons of salt, the
celery salt and cayenne. Bring the mixture to simmer over medium heat
then simmer it, uncovered, for 5 minutes.  Pour the hot marinade over
the tomatoes in the bowl and set a saucer with a weight upon it on
them to keep them submerged, and allow them to marinate at least 6
hours. Just before serving time, drain the tomatoes in a large
strainer set over a bowl. Measure out the drained marinade liquid and
add enough water to it if necessary to bring the total measurement to
3 cups.  Dissolve the cornstarch in the liquid and bring it to simmer
in a heavy saucepan over medium heat while stirring constantly, with
a rubber spatula.  When the liquid simmers, reduce the heat slightly
and simmer 2 minutes longer, still stirring constantly. The sauce
will be very thick and is meant to be so. Keep the sauce warm,
covered with a trimmed piece of paper towel and lid, over very low
heat until serving. Heat 1/4 inch of oil in a heavy, 10-inch frying
pan over medium high heat. There will be around 8 tomato slices per
serving so work in batches of 8. Meanwhile, lightly salt bothsides of
each slice, dredge it in a bowl of the flour and set it on a plate.
(Do not dredge more than 8 slices ahead of time, they get soggy.)
Fry the floured tomato slices for2 to 2 1/2 minutes on each side
until they are golden brown. Do not overcook them. They retain their
heat for a long time and consequently continue to cook after they are
removed from the pan.  We want them to remain crisp. Drain the fried
slices for a moment on paper towels. Transfer them to a warm dinner
plate and serve the fried green tomatoes, immediately, along with a
small, warm bowl of the equally divided marinade sauce.

: "Dining With Delphina"
Recipe By

