Title: MARILYN'S PERSIAN RICE
Categories: Grains, Persian
Yield: 6 Servings
1 tb Butter
2 tb Olive oil
1    Onion; chopped
3    Cloves garlic; minced
1    Dried red chile; seeded and
-finely minced
1/2 ts Cumin seeds; crushed
2    Cardamom pods; seeds removed
-and finely crushed
1/2 ts Ground ginger
1/2 ts Saffron
4 1/2 c  Chicken stock; warmed
2 c  Long-grain rice
1    Cinnamon stick
1    Bay leaf
1/4 c  Dried currants
12 sm Whole dried apricots; cut
-in quarters
3/4 ts ;salt (optional)
1/2 c  Unblanched almonds
3 tb Pine nuts
1/2 c  Unsalted pistachio nuts;
-shelled
Black pepper to taste
3 tb Fresh coriander leaves; torn
In a large saucepan, melt the butter and olive oil over low heat. Add
onion and garlic and cook until softened about 4 minutes stirring
frequently. Increase the heat a little and add the chile, cumin
seeds, cardamom, and ginger.  Cook, stirring, about 2 minutes until
it is fragrant. Add the saffron and chicken stock, mix well and
remove from the heat. Cover and let the saffron flavor the stock for
5 minutes or so.

Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F.  Bring the stock to a simmer over
moderate heat.  Stir in the rice, cinnamon, bay leaf, currants,
apricots and the salt. Return to a simmer, then reduce the heat to
low. Cover and cook for another 15 to 16 minutes.  If the rice is too
wet cook a little longer.

Meanwhile, place the almonds and pine nuts on a baking sheet and
toast them in the oven for 3 to 4 minutes until lightly golden. Add
the pistachios and toast for another minute. Remove from oven and put
on a plate to cool.

Uncover the rice and using a fork stir to fluff. Season with
additional salt and black pepper to taste. Add the nuts and toss it
together. Sprinkle the coriander on top and serve.

Judi's Notes:  I made this dish using 1 cup of orange juice for one
cup of the chicken broth.  My friend Marilyn would scold me if she
only knew, but it did give it a very good flavor. I also included 1/4
tsp. of turmeric with the other spices which enhanced the dish nicely
and gave it a lovely color too.  This is great with lamb kebabs,
warmed pita bread, a nice middle eastern cucumber salad, and a
Persian pastry for dessert.

Shared and MM by Judi M. Phelps. jphelps@shell.portal.com or
jphelps@best.com

