Title: MARINATED LAMB
Categories: Meats
Yield: 4 Servings
1 c  Red wine
1/2 c  Soy sauce (up
-to 3/4 C)
1 tb Rosemary leaves,
-crushed
1 tb Black pepper, fresh
4    Garlic cloves, crushed
1    Half leg of lamb,
-butterflied
Mix together all of the ingredients except the lamb. Place the lamb
in a bowl or pan that will not be corroded by the marinade (a glass
9x13 pan works well).

Pour most of the marinade over the lamb.  Swish the lamb around and
get it soaked on both sides.  Cover and marinate in the refrigerator
for at least several hours, turning occasionally.

Start a fire in the grill and get the coals very warm but not flaming.
Place lamb on grill about 3-4 inches from the coals. Cook on this
side for 20 minutes, basting with the extra marinade occasionally.
Turn the meat over and cook another 20 minutes.

After 10 minutes on the second side, start checking for doneness.
Contrary to many people's ideas, lamb should not be well done but
should still be a little pink. When done, slice thin and serve.

NOTES:

*  Grilled butterflied leg of lamb -- This is the best recipe I have
ever had for lamb. It really brings out the flavor wonderfully. It
came originally from the "Silver Palate Good Times Cookbook."

A wonderful side dish for this is the Spanish recipe for Garlic fried
potatoes.  Yield:  Serves 4-6.

*  For the meat, you need a half leg of lamb which has been
butterflied. A good butcher can do this for you but don't be afraid
of trying it yourself. To butterfly the leg, take a sharp knife and
start at the side and work towards the bone.  Once you have found the
bone, work along it so you have one side completely slit and then cut
out the bone. Depending on which end of the leg you have, you may
need to puzzle over some of the weirdnesses of the bone shape. Don't
discard the bone, it makes interesting soup.

: Difficulty:  easy.
: Time:  5 minutes preparation, overnight marinating, 40 minutes
cooking. : Precision:  no need to measure.

: Anita Cochran
: Astronomy Dept., The Univ.  of Texas, Austin, TX, 78712
: anita@astro.as.utexas.edu  {noao, ut-sally, ut-emx}!utastro!anita

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

