Title: MARINATED CHERRY TOMATOES OVER GARLIC BREAD
Categories: None
Yield: 4 Servings
2 pt Cherry tomatoes, preferably
-mixed colors, stems removed
-cut in half
2    Green onions, white part
-only, coarsely chopped
1/4 c  Finely chopped parsley
1 tb Finely chopped rosemary, or
2 ts Dried chopped rosemary
3    Garlic cloves, peeled, ends
-removed, minced
1/3 c  Extra-virgin olive oil
3 tb Balsamic vinegar
Salt, freshly ground black
-pepper to taste
MMMMM-------------------PROVOLONE GARLIC BREAD------------------------
3 tb Extra-virgin olive oil
3    Garlic cloves, peeled,
-ends removed, minced
4 lg Thick slices of crusty bread
4    Slices (1 1/2 ounces each)
-provolone cheese
1/4 c  Freshly grated Parmesan
-cheese
1. Mix tomatoes, green onions, parsley, rosemary, garlic, olive oil
and vinegar in a shallow bowl. Season with salt and pepper. Cover the
bowl and let tomatoes marinate at room temperature at least 1 hour,
but preferably 3 to 4 hours or overnight. Stir occasionally.

2. For garlic bread, mix olive oil and garlic in a small bowl and let
stand 10 minutes so the flavors blend. Meanwhile, heat broiler. Brush
one side of each bread piece with the garlic/olive oil mixture, and
broil, oiled side up, until lightly browned. Place a slice of
provolone and a generous sprinkling of Parmesan on toasted side of
each slice, saving a little for garnish. Set the bread aside.

3. Just before serving, heat the broiler. Toast the bread under the
broiler until cheese is bubbly. To serve, put a piece of the bread in
a shallow soup bowl. Spoon about 3/4 cup of the tomatoes and marinade
on or around the edges of the bread. Garnish with more Parmesan and
serve.

Nutrition information per serving: 552 calories, 43 g fat, 17 g
protein, 27 g carbohydrate, 33 mg cholesterol, 650 mg sodium. Coping
with tomatoes

In a tomato frenzy? Here's what to do with all those fruits of the
vine: - Never refrigerate tomatoes; cold temperatures make the flesh
pulpy and destroy flavor. ~ Peeling tomatoes isn't necessary if
you're going to use them raw in salads, salsas or on sandwiches; wash
the skin before you stem and core. - To peel, immerse in boiling
water for 30 seconds; drain and peel with a paring knife. - To seed,
cut the tomato in half horizontally. Set a strainer over a bowl and
gently squeeze the seeds into it. - Or, if you want the shell intact,
cut off the top 1/2-inch; scoop out seeds and core with a grapefruit
spoon. - Never cook tomatoes or tomato-based sauces in an aluminum
pan; they lose their bright color and can pick up an unpleasant taste.

Posted By japlady@nwu.edu (Rebecca Radnor) On rec.food.recipes or
rec.food.cooking Submitted By MARK ALEXANDER <MARK@ALEXR.DEMON.CO.UK>
On 29 JAN 1995 2122 GMT

