Title: MARK'S VERSION OF FALAFELS
Categories: Appetizers, Middle east, Snacks, Lunch, Mark's
Yield: 1 Recipe
2 c  Chick peas
4 ea Garlic cloves, minced
1 sm Onion, minced
1 tb Coriander
1 1/2 tb Cumin
Several dashes tabasco
3 tb Wholewheat flour
Salt & pepper
1/4 c  Parsley, minced
Stock, as needed
Soak chick peas, rinse well, cover with fresh water, bring to a boil &
simmer until very tender.  Depending on how fresh the chick peas are
will determine how long this will take. Give them about 1 1/2 hours.
Drain well & set aside to cool.

When cool, place chick peas in food processor bowl & blend until very
smooth.  If you have a large enough bowl, add the rest of the
ingredients, except the stock, & mix in the blender. If the bowl is
not large enough, you will have to do this in batches.  Then add the
ingredients in order, mixing well after each addition. Add a little
stock if the mixture appears too dry or looks as if it is not going
to hold together very well. Cover & set aside for 30 minutes.

Shape into patties.  If the patties do not hold together very well,
you may want to add a little more flour, but be careful, you do not
want to make them too floury. Place on a lightly oiled baking sheet &
gently flatten. This amount should make 15 to 18 patties, so make
them a reasonable size. Preheat the oven to 350F. Bake the falafel
patties for 5 minutes, remove trays, flip the patties & return to the
oven for another 5 minutes. Remove from trays & cool on wire racks.

To serve: Heat some olive oil in a good heavy skillet, you can
choose: I use 2 tb of olive oil, or you could deep fry them in a wok.
If using the wok method, crumble one dried red chile into the oil as
it is heating. When the oil is hot, fry the falafel patties until
golden. Flip & fry the other side.  Remove from the oil, drain &
serve.

Either serve the falafel as part of a Middle Eastern platter
including some baba ganouj, hummus, tabouleh, lettuce, tomatoes,
green onions & pita. Or, make up a sauce using tahini & hot sauce,
warm a pita bread, slice the top off, spread the tahini paste in the
pita, drop in two patties, cover with lettuce, tomatoes & green
onions. Either a great snack or a main meal.

Recipe by Mark Satterly

