Title: MARTHA STEWART'S FALL LEAF TUILE COOKIES
Categories: Chocolate, Cookies, Holidays
Yield: 100 Cookies
MMMMM-------------------CHOCOLATE TUILE BATTER------------------------
1/2 c  Unsalted butter; room
-temperature
2/3 c  Confectioner's sugar
4 lg Egg whites
1 c  All purpose flour
3 tb Dutch process cocoa powder
MMMMM---------------------WHITE TUILE BATTER--------------------------
1/2 c  Unsalted butter; room
-temperature
2/3 c  Confectioner's sugar
4 lg Egg whites
1 c  All purpose flour
Traditionally, tuiles are thin, crisp almond cookies that are gently
molded over a rolling pin or arched form while they are still warm.
Once set, their shape ressembles the curved French roofing tiles for
which they're named. Create an autumnal variation on the classic
French tuile cookie by shaping them with a leaf- shaped stencil. The
basic tuile dough of sugar, nuts, eggs, flour, and butter can be
enhanced by flavorings such as chocolate, vanilla, lemon or orange.
These delicate cookies are delicious served alone, or along side a
bowl of ice cream.

To make leaf-shaped tuiles, Martha Stewart cuts stencils shaped like
maple and oak leaves from the tops of plastic containers. She places
the stencils on a baking sheet lined with a nonstick baking mat. She
forms the cookies by spreading a thin layer of dough inside the open
part of the stencil. After removing the stencil form, she decorates
each leaf cookie by piping "veins" with a pastry bag filled with a
contrasting dough before baking. Work quickly when removing the
cookies from the oven because if you wait too long the cookies will
harden on the baking sheet and won't be flexible enough to curve over
the rolling pin. If this happens, you can return the baking sheet to
the oven for a few seconds, and try again. This recipe uses
Dutch-process cocoa, known for its rich flavor and color.

1. Sift flour with cocoa, and set aside.

2. In bowl of an electric standing mixer with paddle attachment, beat
butter and sugar on medium, until well combined, about 2 minutes.
Beat in egg whites, one at a time, beating for 4 minutes after each
addition. Add the flour-and-cocoa mixture, and mix until just
combined.

3. Reserve 1/2 cup batter; place in a pastry bag fitted with a #2 tip
and set aside for piping white tuile cookies.

