Title: MELTON MOWBRAY PORK PIE
Categories: Primary1, British
Yield: 8 Servings
2 lb Diced pork shoulder meat
1/4"" cubes
1 ts Salt and pepper
1/2 ts Ground sage or 2-3 leaves
1 pn Each of dry mustard andi
Allspice
1    Pork and veal bones
2    Onions, chopped
1    Bay leaf
2    Or 3 sprigs of marjoram &
Thyme
8 oz Lard (yum)
1 lb Flour
2/3 c  Milk mixed half and half w/
Water
1    Egg, lightly beaten
1.  Mix the meat, salt, pepper, herbs and spices and set aside. 2. To
make the stock, boil bones, onions, bay leaf, herbs salt and pepper
in 4 cups of water for two hours or until the liquid is reduced to 2
1/3 cups. Cool, degrease and refrigerate until it starts to jell. 3.
To make the pastry, rub 2 oz of the lard into the flour mixed with a
teaspoon of salt until it is the consistency of breadcrumbs. 4. Boil
the rest of the fat with the milk and water. 5. Make a well in the
mound of flour and while stirring with a wooden spoon, mix in the
boiling liquid. 6. Knead and leave to rest for 10 minutes. 7. To make
the casing or "coffyn", roll out three-quarters of the dough into a
circle 3/4" thick. Flour the outside of the tin and stand it in the
centre of the dough. Work the dough up the sides of the tin and then
gently remove the tin leaving you with a pie casing. 8. Fill it
immediately with the meat mixture as it is likely to collapse. 9.
Roll out the remaining dough into a circle slightly larger than the
diameter of the casing, to form the lid. 10. Preheat the oven to 400F
11. Dampen the top edge of the pie and gently press on the lid.
Crimp the edge. Make a hole in the centre of the lid and decorate it
with pastry leaves. 12. Place on a baking dish and bake in the
preheated oven for 20 minutes and then reduce the heat to 300 degrees
F and bake for 1 3/4 hours. If necessary place some aluminim foil on
the top to prevent burning. 13. Remove from the oven and allow to
cool completely.  Pour the chilled stock through the hole in the lid
and refrigerate Serve Cold.

Serves 8

