Title: MEXICAN MOCHA PIE
Categories: Mexican, Pies, Desserts, Kooknet, Cyberealm
Yield: 12 Servings
1 pk Unflavored gelatin
1/3 c  Coffee flavored liqueur
1/2 c  Cold water
4    Eggs
3 oz Semisweet chocolate
1/4 c  Sugar
1 ts Butter or margarine
1/4 c  Almonds; slivered
1 1/2 c  Heavy cream
1    9-in pie shell; baked
Sprinkle gelatin over 1/2 cup cold water in a measuring cup; let
soften about 5 min. Seperate eggs, placing 2 egg whites in small bowl
of an electric mixer and 4 egg yolks in top of a double
boiler.(refrigerate remaining whites for use in another recipe) Let
egg whites warm to room temerature.
Beat yolks slightly with a wooden spoon; stir in gelatin mixture,
semisweet chocolate and 2 tablespoons of the sugar. Cook over hot, not
boiling water, stiring until melted, about 10 min. Remove mixture from
heat, stir in coffee flavored liqueur.
Pour chocolate mixture into a medium-sized bowl; place in a large
bowl of ice water. Stir mixture occasionally until it cools and is
the consistency of unbeaten egg whites, about 15 minutes. Toast
almonds: In a small skillet over medium heat, melt the butter. Add
almonds; cook, stirring, just until golden brown. Cool.
In chilled bowl of an electric mixer, whip heavy cream until stiff;
refrigerate. Meanwhile, with electric mixer (use clean beaters), beat
egg whites just until soft peaks form when beaters are slowly raised.
Gradually beat in remaining 2 tablespoons sugar, beating until stiff
peaks form when beaters are raised.
With wire whisk or rubber spatula, using an under-and-over motion,
fold beaten egg whites and 1 1/2 cups of the whipped cream into the
chocolet mixture. Cover and refrigerate remaining whipped cream. Turn
filling into pie shell, spreading filling evenly. Refridgerate until
filling is firm, about 3 hours.
Chop the toasted almonds. Spoon the remaining whipped cream into a
pastry bag fitted with a #6 tip; pipe whipped cream along inside edge
of the pie crust. With a spoon, sprinkle almonds around tne inside
edge of the whipped cream. Refridgerate until ready to serve.
Variation: add 1/2 teaspoon cinnamon to chocolate mixture. NOTE: We
advise caution when preparing recipes that call for raw eggs to avoid
exposure to salmonella.

