Title: MEXICAN BEAN CAKE
Categories: Cakes, Ethnic, Mexican
Yield: 24 Servings
1/3 c  Butter or margarine
3/4 c  Sugar
1    Egg
2 c  Unseasoned pinto bean puree*
2 ts Vanilla extract
1 c  Flour
1 ts Baking soda
1/2 ts Salt
1 ts Ground cinnamon
1/2 ts Ground cloves
1/2 ts Ground allspice
2 c  Peeled and diced apple
1 c  Raisins
1/2 c  Chopped nuts
1 1/2 c  Icing sugar (optional)
Milk or fruit juice
"Mexican meals don't usually include cake, but this one--made with
bean puree and lots of fruit and spices--would fit right in with
Mexican food!" Jean's Beans by Jean Hoare page 112.

BEAN PUREE Start with 1 cup of dried beans or a bit more if using
large white limas and you plan to take off the skins. Extra bean
puree may be frozen-it looks like mashed potato. Quick Soak - Wash
beans, use 3 cups of cold water for each cup of beans and bring
slowly to a boil. Boil gently for 2 minutes. Remove from heat, cover
and let stand for 1 hour. Drain off soaking water.

Cover with fresh cold water, bring to a boil for 10 min, reduce heat
and simmer about 30 min until tender. Drain. Remove lima bean skins
and discard any hard beans. Grind through a foodmill, puree in a
blender or food processor.  You may have to add a bit of liquid saved
from the cooking process to get the mixture moving. Force the puree
through a sieve about 1/4 cup at a time if you want a very smooth
puree. Puree only keeps a day or two in fridge so freeze any that you
are not going to use for the recipe.

Preheat oven to 350F.  Grease and flour the bottom only of a 9x13 inch
rectangular pan.

Cream butter with sugar.  Add egg and beat well. Blend in bean puree
and vanilla.  In a separate bowl, combine flour, baking soda, salt,
and spices. Mix with the apple, raisins, and nuts. Add dry
ingredients and fruit to creamed mixture and blend well.  Pour batter
into prepared pan and bake 35-45 min or until cake tests done when
tried with a toothpick.

Mix icing sugar with enough milk or fruit juice to make a thin glaze;
drizzle over the still-warm cake. Keep in the refrigerator.

(My notes - I would make this again but leave off the glaze as it is
quite sweet.)  Shared by Elizabeth Rodier, reposted Nov 93.

