Title: MICHAEL'S BRAISED RIBS
Categories: Meats, Bar-b-q
Yield: 4 Servings
MMMMM-----------------------BRAISING SAUCE----------------------------
1 lg Onion; finely minced
1 md Carrot; finely minced
1    Celery stalk; finely sliced
1 tb Minced garlic
1 tb Tomato paste
6 lb Baby back ribs
1 1/2 ts Salt
1 ts Freshly ground black pepper
4 c  All-purpose stock
-OR low-sodium chicken broth
3    Bay leaves
1    Sprig fresh thyme; -=OR=-
1/2 ts -Dried thyme
MMMMM-----------------------BARBECUE RIBS----------------------------
6 lb Braised baby back ribs
Braising liquid from ribs
1 tb Brown sugar
1/4 c  Cider vinegar
2 tb Catsup
1 tb Dry mustard
1 ts Worcestershire sauce
1/4 ts Ground cloves
1 ts Chili powder
1/4 ts Cayenne pepper
BRAISING SAUCE: Preheat oven to 350F. Mix onions, carrots, celery,
garlic and tomato paste together and then place in a roasting pan
large enough to comfortably hold the ribs in a single layer. Lay the
ribs on top and sprinkle with salt and pepper. Add stock, bay leaves
and thyme. Cover and place in the oven for 1 hour. Remove from oven,
remove the ribs and set aside to cool. Strain the braising liquid and
discard the vegetables. TO FREEZE RIBS: Pour the liquid into a small
freezer container and place in refrigerator to cool for 1 hour. When
cool, remove and discard any fat that has congealed on the surface of
the liquid. Cover tightly and place in freezer for up to 3 months.
Wrap the meat in plastic wrap and then place in airtight plastic
freezer bags or containers. You may freeze meat for up to 3 months,
also. BARBECUE RIBS: TO BARBECUE THE RIBS: Preheat oven to 375F or
light a charcoal grill. Defrost the braising liquid. Defrost the ribs
or not; it's not important. Combine the sugar and vinegar in a
1-quart pot and place over medium heat on top of the stove. Cook
until the vinegar reduces and forms a syrup with the sugar, about 8
minutes. Watch carefully as the syrup will suddenly darken in color.
Immediately add the rib braising liquid, then the catsup, mustard,
Worcestershire, cloves, chili powder and cayenne pepper. Cook,
reducing the liquid until it has a thick sauce-like consistency.
Remove from the heat and set aside. TO COOK RIBS IN THE OVEN, place
ribs in a roasting pan, cover, place in oven and turn temperature to
350F. Cook for 30 minutes, basting with more barbecue sauce every 10
minutes. TO COOK ON THE GRILL, wait until the coals become white hot
and pile them on one side of the grill. Place the ribs on the grill
so they are not directly over the coals and cover the grill so that
smoke collects inside. If your grill does not have a cover, improvise
one out of aluminum foil. Cook for 30 minutes, basting with more
barbecue sauce every 10 minutes. When ribs are well heated, remove to
a platter and serve. Offer any additional barbecue sauce on the side.

