Title: MINIATURE COOKIE HOUSES
Categories: Holiday, Non-food, Gifts, Christmas
Yield: 1 Servings
MMMMM----------------------FOR COOKIE HOUSE---------------------------
4 1/2 c  Flour (may need up to 5)
2 ts Baking powder
1/2 ts Salt
1 c  Margarine; room temperature
2 c  Sugar
2 ea Eggs
2 tb Milk
2 ts Vanilla extract
Egg wash
MMMMM-----------------------FOR DECORATING----------------------------
#5,#7 round and #27 star tip
Three decorating bags
Decorating icing
Colored sugar
Assorted candies
Decorating bag with coupler
Make the cookie dough:  Stir or whisk together 4 1/2 cups of the
flour, the baking powder and salt; set aside. Cream the butter and
sugar until light; add the eggs, milk, and vanilla and beat well.
Gradually add the dry ingredients and blend to form a smooth ball of
dough. If the dough is sticky, add just enough of the remaining flour
to eliminate the stickiness. The dough should not be dry. Divide the
dough in half, wrap each ball in plastic and refrigerate for several
hours, or until firm enough to roll.
Meanwhile, cut cardboard templates for the base and the three
parts of the cookie house.  The dimensions are as follows: THE BASE:
is a circle 6" across (cut 1)  THE SIDE: is a rectangle 2 3/8" x 3
1/2" (cut 2) THE FRONT/BACK: is funny shaped. It's 3" wide and 4 1/4"
tall (total height). From the bottom to the beginning of the "roof"
section is 2 3/8". At 2 3/8" cut up to form the "roof" top like an
upside down "V" (cut 2). Finally cut the ROOF: it's a rectangle 2
3/4" x 4 1/4".
Preheat oven to 350 degrees. On a flour-dusted cookie sheet or
the back of one jelly roll pan, roll out one ball of dough to
1/8"-1/4" thick. For each house cut one base, two sides, two
front/back pieces, and two roof pieces.  Lay out the cardboard
patterns on the dough, leaving 1 1/2" between them. The layout will
depend on the size of your cookie sheet and how many houses you are
making. Use a sharp knife to cut around each template, removing
excess dough as you cut. Wipe the knife frequently. Repeat the
rolling and cutting process to make the remaining pieces. If you want
some small trees in front of your house, make them using a cookie
cutter.
Bake both sheets of cookies at the same time, for 10-15 minutes
reemoving pieces when they are done (preferable to overbake than
underbake since we need firm cookies). The cookies may brown, but
this is O.K. Transfer immediately to a wire rack to cool completely.
Decorate the pieces before assembling the houses. You can do
this many ways. Mostly use your imagination. Frost or pipe/apply
candies to the "wet" icing. To "sugar-coat" areas, brush on egg-wash
(being careful not to touch any piping or decorations); then sprinkle
immediately with colored sugar. Tap gently to shake off excess sugar.
Set aside to dry for half an hour.
Next to assemble houses. Use the #7 icing tip . Pipe a thick
line of icing along edges to be put together and "glue" the houses
together and on the base. Make sure to do one area at a time and hold
until icing sets. Let all set for a few minutes.  When icing is firm,
do any finishing touches. MAKES THREE COOKIE HOUSES WITH BASES The
Christmas Kitchen by Lorraine Bodger

