Title: MINT CHOCOLATE CHIP MARQUISE WITH CREME DE CA
Categories: Desserts, Chocolate
Yield: 16 Servings
1 c  Milk
10 lg Mint Leaves, washed and
-patted dry
6    Egg Yolks
3/4 c  Superfine Sugar
2 tb Superfine Sugar
8 oz Bittersweet Chocolate,
-divided
1 c  Unsalted Butter, room
-temperature
1 3/4 c  Unsweetened Cocoa
3/4 c  Whipping Cream
1/2 ts Mint Extract
For the Creme Anglaise:
4    Egg Yolks
4 tb Sugar
1 1/2 c  Milk
2 tb Creme de Cacao
1/4 ts Vanilla
For the Marquise:

To prepare the marquise:  In a medium saucepan, combine the milk and
mint leaves.  Bring to a boil, remove from heat, and set aside 15
minutes.

Whisk together the egg yolks and 3/4 cup sugar until foamy. Bring the
milk back to a boil and strain into the egg mixture, whisking well.
Pour back into the saucepan and cook over medium heat, stirring
constantly, for five minutes.  Transfer to a bowl and cool slightly.
Refrigerate until completely chilled. (This can be done 24 hours in
advance and kept covered in refrigeration.)

Chop 4 oz. of chocolate and place in the top of a double boiler. Melt
over hot water; remove when chocolate is almost melted and stir until
completely melted.  Cool the chocolate slightly.  Chop the remaining
chocolate to make chips and set aside.

With an electric mixer, beat together the butter and cocoa; scrape the
sides of the bowl and the beater occasionally. Slowly beat in the cold
custard sauce; the mixture will look curdled but will pull back
together with beating. Beat in the cooled chocolate.

Beat the whipping cream until foamy.  Beat in the remaining 2 Tbsp
sugar and the mint extract; continue beating until soft peaks form.
Fold 1/4 of the whipped cream into the chocolate mixture to lighten
the mixture; fold in the remaining whipped cream and the chocolate
chips. Transfer to a 9x5-inch loaf pan that has been lined with two
sheets of plastic wrap. Cover well and freeze.

One hour before serving, remove the marquise from the pan by lifting
out the plastic. Unmold onto a serving platter and refrigerate.

Just before serving, prepare the creme anglaise: Whisk together the
egg yolks and sugar until thickened and lightened in color. Bring the
milk to a boil in a medium saucepan; whisk into the egg mixture. pour
back into the saucepan and cook over medium heat until thickened,
stirring constantly. Transfer to a bowl and stir in the creme de
cacao and vanilla. Serve the sauce hot with the marquise.  Makes 16
servings.

Note:  The creme de cacao can be omitted from the sauce if desired.

Source:  The Philadelphia Inquirer, June 16, 1991

