Title: MIXED BERRY TIRAMISU
Categories: Desserts, Cakes, Fruits
Yield: 10 Servings
1    12-oz package unsweetened
Frozen mixed berries
12 tb Sugar
1    10-oz package frozen
Raspberries in syrup; thawed
1/4 c  Raspberry liqueur
2 ts Vanilla extract
3    4.40-oz packages Champagne
Biscuits (4" ladyfingers)
3    8-oz packets Mascarpone
Cheese*
1 pt Strawberries; hulled
1 pt Raspberries
1/2 pt Blueberries
Cook frozen mixed berries and 6 tablespoons sugar in a heavy medium
saucepan over medium heat until mixture resembles jam and is reduced
to 1 cup, stirring frequently, about 15 minutes. Cool jam mixture.

Strain syrup from thawed raspberries through sieve set over bowl,
pressing gently on solids.  Discard solids. Add raspberry liquer to
raspberry syrup in bowl. Using sharp knife, trim 1 biscuit to 3-inch
length. Quickly dip biscuit into syrup, turning to coat lightly.
Place rounded end up and sugared side against side of a 9-inch
springform pan with 2 3/4-inch sides. Repeat with as many biscuits as
necessary to cover sides of pan. Dip more biscuits in syrup and
arrange on bottom of pan, covering completely and trimming to fit.

In bowl, whisk mascarpone with 6 tablespoons sugar and vanilla to
blend. Set aside.  Thinly slice enough strawberries to measure 1/2
cup. Gently spread half of jam mixture over biscuits in bottom of
pan. Spoon half of mascarpone mixture over; smooth top.  Sprinkle
with sliced strawberries, 1/2 cup fresh raspberries and 1/2 cup
blueberries. Dip more biscuits into syrop; arrange over fruit in pan,
covering completely and trimming to fit. Gently spread remaining jam
mixture over biscuits. Spoon remaining mascarpone mixture over;
smooth top. Cover, chill at least 4 hours or overnight.

Release pan sides.  Transfer cake to platter.  Arrange remaining fresh
berries decoratively atop cake and serve.

*  Mascarpone is Italian cream cheese available at Italian markets and
specialty food stores.  If unavailable, blend 1 1/2 pounds cream
cheese with 1/2 cup whipping cream and 6 tablespoons sour cream. Use
3 cups for this recipe. Bon Appetit Magazine August 1993

