Title: MIXED VEGETABLE GRILL
Categories: Vegetables, Bbq
Yield: 6 Servings
MMMMM----------------------NORMA WRENN MSN---------------------------
3/4 c  Olive oil
3 tb Fresh lemon juice
3 tb Fresh cilantro; chopped
1 ts Salt
1/4 ts Freshly ground pepper
2    Fennel bulbs; trimmed; cut
-in half lengthwise
4    Baby artichokes; trimmed
2    Whole heads garlic; unpeeled
2    Belgian endives (witloof/
Chicory)
2    Anaheim (mild green) chili
Peppers; cut in half
-lengthwise; seed; derib
8 oz Whole fresh shiitake
Mushrooms; stemmed
12    To 16 thin asparagus (12 oz)
-trimmed
1 lg Red onion; cut crosswise
-into slices 1/2" thick
Here is a suggested medley of vegetables, but improvise and use
whatever is in season and reasonably young and tender. Very firm
vegetales will grill more quickly and evenly if you first cook them
in boiling water until just tender, a step that can be done hours
ahead.

In a small bowl whisk together the olive oil, lemon juice, cilantro,
salt and pepper, set aside.

In a large pot bring about 4 quarts salted water to a rapid boil.
Cook the fennel bulbs until just tender when pierced, 7-10 minutes.
Remove them and drain well; set aside. Drop in the artichokes and
cook until just tender, 5-10 minutes.  Scoop them out, drain well and
then cut them in half lengthwise; set aside. Blanch the garlic heads
for about 5 minutes; remove them, drain well and set aside.  Finally,
blanch the Belgian endives for about 1 minute; remove them, drain
well and then cut in half lengthwise. Set aside. Have th chili
peppers, mushrooms, asparagus and onion at hand also.

Prepare a fire in a grill.  Position the oiled grill rack 4-6 inches
above the fire.  Arrange the vegetables on the rack. Grill the fennel
halves, artichoke halves, whole garlic heads and onion slices for
about 12 minutes, the pepper halves and mushrooms for about 10
minutes, the endive halves for about 8 minutes, and the asparagus for
4-8 minutes, depending upon size. As the vegetables cook, turn them
two or three times and brush with the oil mixture.  Serve warm or at
room temperature.

Source:  Williams-Sonoma Kitchen Library: Grilling

