Title: MOCHA WHIPPED CREAM FILLING (FOR GRAHAM CRACK
Categories: Cakes
Yield: 6 Servings
2 1/2 c  Heavy cream, well chilled
1/3 c  Strained confectioner's
-sugar
3 tb Strained unsweetened cocoa
1 ts Coffee zest (see note)
2 tb Kahlua or Tia Maria
1/2 ts Unsweetened cocoa, for
-garnish
Pour cream into a well-chilled mixing bowl.  Beat in an electric mixer
fitted with chilled beaters or whip attachment. Stir in the
confectioner's sugar and cocoa and beat on medium speed until the
cream begins to thicken. Add the coffee zest and liqueur.  Continue
whipping until cream reaches the soft peak stage, and remove from the
mixer. Finish beating by hand using a wire whisk, whipping until
cream is quite thick but not grainy. Refrigerate. Note:  to make
coffee zest, add 3 parts coffee crystals to 1 part boiling water. To
assemble the cake, split each layer into halves. Set the first layer
on a serving plate, top side down. Fit a 14-inch pastry bag with a
large no. 5 plain tube, and fill it 1/3 rd full with mocha whipped
cream.  Starting 1/2 inch from the edge, pipe a circle of cream
around the top of the layer. Fill center of the circle with
additional cream, smoothing surface with a large metal offset
spatula. Repeat with the second and third layers, placing them cut
side up. Arrange the top layer cut side down, aligning layers so the
sides of the cake are even. Empty the remaining whipped cream into
the pastry bag. Pipe 1/2 inch whipped cream dots on the top layer,
beginning at the outer edge. Each dot should touch the preceding one,
forming a ring. Continue working toward the center of the cake until
the entire surface is covered. Place 1/2 tsp cocoa in a very fine
mesh strainer. Gently tap the strainer over the surface of the cake
to give it a light dusting of cocoa.  Place the cake in the
refrigerator uncovered to chill, but remove from refrigerator at
least 1 hour before serving. Storage: Store leftover cake in the
refrigerator under a foil tent. This cake will keep for up to three
days.

