Title: MOCHA CREME CARAMEL
Categories: Desserts
Yield: 6 Servings
2/3 c  Sugar
3 tb Water
1 1/2 c  Whipping cream
1/2 c  Milk
1/4 c  Sugar
4 oz Milk chocolate - imported, c
2 1/2 ts Instant coffee granules
3    Egg yolks
1    Egg
1 1/2 ts Instant coffee powder
1/2 ts Water
4 oz Milk chocolate - imported, c
2 tb Whipping cream
Servings:  6

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 325F. Place six 1/2 cup
ramekins or custard cups in baking pan. Stir 2/3 cup sugar and 3
tablespoons water in heavy small saucepan over low heat until sugar
dissolves.  Wash down sugar crystals from sides of pan with brush
dipped in cold water.  Increase heat to medium-high and bring mixture
to boil. Boil without stirring until mixture turns deep golden brown,
swirling pan occasionally, about 9 minutes. Immediately divide
caramel among ramekins. Carefully tilt ramekins to coat bottoms (not
sides) with caramel.

Bring cream, milk and 1/4 cup sugar to boil in heavy medium saucepan,
whisking until sugar dissolves. Remove from heat. Add chocolate and
stir until chocolate melts and mixture is smooth. Whisk in instant
coffee, yolks and egg.

Divide custard mixture evenly among caramel-lined ramekins. Add
enough hot water to baking pan to come halfway up sides of ramekins.
Bake until custards are set around edges and centers move only
slightly when baking pan is shaken, about 30 minutes.

Remove custards from water and cool completely. Refrigerate until very
cold, about 4 hours.  (Custards can be prepared 1 day ahead.)

FOR GANACHE:

Dissolve instant coffee in 1/2 teaspoon water in small bowl. Combine
chocolate and cream in heavy small saucepan. Stir over low heat until
chocolate melts and mixture is smooth. Remove from heat and stir in
coffee mixture.  Cool until just warm to touch.

Divide ganache among custards.  Spread ganache with back of spoon to
cover top of custards completely. Refrigerate until ganache is set,
at least 30 minutes. (Can be prepared 3 days ahead; cover.)

Run small sharp knife around edge of custards to loosen. Invert
custards onto plates and serve.

Bon Appetit, March, 1991.

