Title: MOCKTAILS MADE EASY
Categories: Beverages, Ceideburg 2
Yield: 1 Servings
Text Only
Here are a few drink recipes that will pick you up without putting you
under the table.  Always nice to stay awake until the shrimp come off
the barby...

BTW, I've closely checked the phone numbers given here just in case
anyone wants to order some take out from these places. Be prepared to
tip lavishly...

LANGUID summer days by the pool, elegant cocktail in hand++minus the
alcohol.  Here's five cool concoctions and where to find them if you
haven't even the energy to make them yourself.

BATHERS LEMONADE FRUIT COCKTAIL:

Lemonade fruit is a hybrid (orange, lime and lemon) which comes into
season January, February and March. Juice two fruits, add half a nip
of Schweppes lime juice, a dash of lemon juice, ice and then blend.
From the Bathers Pavilion, 4 The Esplanade, Balmoral (phone 968 1133).

THE REGENT MOCKTAIL:

Blend three strawberries, 1/2 banana, two small pieces of pineapple,
60 mL orange juice, and 60 mL pineapple juice with ice and serve in a
very long glass garnished with an orange wheel on the rim and
pineapple leaf on the mixture.  From The Regent, 199 George Street
(phone 238 0000), where it costs $7.75.

BAYSWATER VIRGIN MARY:

A Bloody Mary minus the vodka.  Rim a tall glass with vegetable salt
and half-fill with ice.  Add a dash of Tabasco, a dash of
Worcestershire sauce, 1/2 nip of lemon juice, pepper and salt and top
up with tomato juice. Garnish with fresh celery and lemon.  Grind
pepper on the top. From The Bayswater Brasserie, 3@ Bayswater Road,
King's Cross (phone 357 2177), where it costs $4.50.

MORGAN'S FRUIT COCKTAIL:

Take three strawberries, 1/4 mango, 1/2 banana, a thick slice of
rockmelon, and 1 passionfruit.  Add 90 mL of freshly squeezed orange
juice and one scoop of ice. Serve in a double martini glass and
garnish the rim with fruit.  From Morgans, 304 Victoria Street,
Darlinghurst (phone 360 7955), where it costs $5.

THE DUG OUT MOCKTAIL:

Take four blackberries, two strawberries, four raspberries, ice and a
dash of gom syrup (water and sugar mixture). Blend and serve in a
daiquiri glass garnished with sliced lemon.  From the Dug Out Bar at
The Burdekin, 2 Oxford Street, Darlinghurst (phone 331 3066).

From "Take Five" by Shelli-Anne Couch, Sydney Morning Herald, 1/5/93.

Posted by Stephen Ceideberg; February 17 1993.

