Title: MODENA RICE PUDDING
Categories: Desserts, Rice
Yield: 6 Servings
3 1/2 c  Milk
7 oz Superfine Arborio Or Roma
-Rice
8 3/4 oz Sugar
1 1/2 tb Unsalted Butter
5 lg Eggs, Beaten
2 ts Grated Lemon Zest
4 oz High Quality Candied Citron
-Finely Diced Or:
3/4 c  Blanched Almonds, Toasted &
-Coarsely Chopped
One day ahead, wrop the dish and refrigerate in the refrigerator
until 1 hour before baking. The food of grandmothers, this baked rice
pudding is scented with citron or almond. Baking burnishes it to a
glowing gold and makes it firm enough to be sliced like a cake.
Although made throughout the region,this rendition from Modena was
shared by Catherine Piccolo of the Modena/St. Paul Minnesota, Sister
City Committee. This pudding is the dessert served after Sunday
dinner in farmhouses on the Po River plain. It is pulled from the
cold pantry for special quests, and is especially favored around
Easter time.  The pudding can be made before serving. It is equally
good served warm from the oven or chilled.

In a heavy 3-4 quart saucepan, combine the milk and rice. Bring to a
gentle bubble over igh heat.  Turn the heat down to low, cover
tightly,and cook 20-25 mminutes at a very slow bubble. Stir
occasionally to check for sticking. When the rice is tender but still
a little resistant to the bite (it will be a little soupy), stir in
the sugar. Turn it into a bowl and allow it to cool. Butter a 9 inch
springorm pan with the 1-1/2 tbsp butter. Preheat the oven to 350F.
Stir the eggs,lemon zest, and citron or almonds into the cooled rice.
Turn into the pan, and bake 55-65 minutes, or until a knife inserted
2 inches from the edge comes out clean. To serve at room temperature,
cool the pudding to room temperature on a rack, and then unmold.
REfrigerate if you will be holding it for longer than 2 hours. Slice
into narrow wedges. Serve warm by reheating the pudding in its mold
at 325 F about 20 minutes. Then release the sides of the pan and set
on a round plate.

Origin: Cookbook Digest, Mar/Apr 93 Shared by: Sharon Stevens

