Title: MOIST TOWELETTES
Categories: Misc
Yield: 4 Dozen
24    Squares of white Bounty-
-brand paper towels
1 c  Witch hazel
1 ts Glycerin; opt
These handy wash-up towels cost less than half the price of their
commercial conterparts while they contain no harsh alcohols or bizarre
preservatives and they stay fresh and moist just long. Separate and
stack each of the towel squares from the roll; cut each square in
half. Place the rectangles in front of you vertically; fold each
rectangle into thirds as if you were folding up a business letter;
then fold the letter in half, as if you were closing a book. Place
all but 4 of the folded towelettes on a single or double layer in a
large shallow lassagne-type pan; set the pan aside. In a shaker jar,
combine the witch hazel and glycerin. (The glycerin in not essential;
however it allows the towelettes to remain moist for long periods of
time as well as being good for the skin.) Drizzle the liquid evenly
over the pan of towels and allow them to absorb for several minutes.
Press the towels to help them absorb any excess liquid; if any liquid
remains, press in 1 or more of the reserved towels. Stack the
moistened towelettes in a liddle plastic 2-cup container; cover
securely and use as needed when traveling with children, on picnics,
in the car, etc. If the towelettes begin to dry out, simply pour in a
little more with hazel. VARIATION-WINDSHIELD WIPERS-If you have used
glycerin, they can be used as an effective automobile
windshield-wiping cloth in even the coldest weather. CARRY-ALONG
WIPERS-Pack up to 10 moist towelettes in a zip-loc sandwich bag to
carry in a purse, tote bag or lunchbox. WIPEY-DIPEY-Replace the witch
hazel and glycerin with 1 cup light mineral oil or 1 c baby oil;
saturate and package the folded towelettes as directed. Use as a
half-price, alcohol-free diaper wipe for baby. Source: Health and
Beauty Aids and Household Helpers. Submitted By
AB255@DETROIT.FREENET.ORG (PATRICIA C. EMPSON)  On TUE, 28 NOV 1995
134204 -0500

