Title: MOLDED CHOCOLATE MOUSSE
Categories: Desserts, Chocolate
Yield: 10 Servings
1/4 c  Cold water
1    Envelope unflavored gelatin
6    Eggs, separated
1 1/2 c  Sugar, divided
6    Squares (1 oz each)
-unsweetened chocolate,
-melted and cooled
1 tb Instant coffee
1 c  Boiling water
2 1/2 ts Vanilla, divided
2 tb Dark rum, brandy or bourbon
1/8 ts Salt
2 c  Heavy cream
1/3 c  Confectioner's sugar
Woman's Day, 9/2/80
FROM:

Make early in day or day before.  Double recipe for large loaf pan or
2 pans, using very large bowl for folding egg whites with chocolate.

For easy unmolding prepare 9x5x3-inch loaf pan this way: use 2 pieces
waxed paper, one for length, one for width of pan. Fold each
lengthwise as necessary to fit pan exactly: it's best to have more
than one thickness. Put strips in pan, extending slightly above rim
on all sides.

Pour cold water into 2-cup glass measure.  Sprinkle with gelatin; let
stand at least 5 minutes. Meanwhile in 1-1/2 to 2 quart bowl, beat
egg yolks with 1 cup sugar 5 minutes or until thick and light
colored. Stir in chocolate until smooth, scraping bowl with rubber
spatula; set aside.

Add coffee and boiling water to softened gelatin; stir mixture into
stiff chocolate mixture scraping bowl constantly, until smooth. Beat
in 1-1/2 tsp vanilla and the rum. Transfer mixture to 4-quart bowl;
place in large bowl of ice and cold water. Stir, scraping bottom and
sides 2-3 minutes or until very cold but not thick. Remove from water
temporarily; set aside.

In large bowl beat whites with salt until foamy. Gradually beat in
remaining 1/2 cup sugar until soft peaks form.

Return bowl of chocolate mixture to ice water; stir 2-3 minutes or
until mixture barely starts to thicken. Remove bowl from ice water.
Fold half the mixture into whites, then fold into remaining mixture
(do not overfold).

Pour gently from one bowl to another to insure thorough blending.
Refrigerate 8-10 hours or overnight.

To unmold: since most loaf pans flare, corners probably will not be
lined with wax paper. With small, sharp knife loosen corners. Invert
flat platter over loaf pan; invert pan over platter. Remove pan;
gently peel way paper. Whip creamwith confectioner's sugar and
remaining 1 tsp vanilla to thick saucelike consistency. (If desired,
whip about 1/2 cup of the heavy cream until stiff. Pipe on mousse to
garnish.) Spoon generously over each slice of mousse.

Makes 10 servings.

