Title: MOLE POBLANO DE POLLO
Categories: Poultry
Yield: 4 Servings
MMMMM---------------------------CHILES--------------------------------
4    Chiles mulatos
2    Chiles anchos
3    Chiles pasillas
1/4 c  Shortening (lard if you're
-being traditional)
;Water, warm, to cover
MMMMM--------------------------CHICKEN-------------------------------
1    Chicken, 4 lb
4 tb Shortening (or lard)
1 sm Carrot; sliced
1 sm Onion; sliced
1    Garlic clove; peeled
1 tb Salt
3    Peppercorns
;Water to cover
1/2 c  ;Water
1/4 c  Shortening (or lard)
1/4 c  Tomatillos; drained
2    Cloves
5    Peppercorns
1/2    In Cinnamon stick
1/8 ts Cilantro seeds and
1/8 ts Aniseed, toasted together
1/2 tb Reserved chili seeds,
-toasted separately
3 tb Sesame seeds, toasted
2    Garlic cloves, toasted
3 tb Shortening
1 tb Raisins
10    Almonds, unblanched
1 oz Pumpkin seeds
1    Corn tortilla, stale
3    Croutons stale French bread
1 oz Mexican chocolate
2 c  Chicken stock
The day before, slit the chiles open with a knife and remove the
seeds and veins, reserving at least 1/2 tablespoon of the seeds. Heat
the shortening and quickly fry the chiles on both sides. Take care
that they do not burn, and be careful how you inhale the fumes,
unless you want a seared windpipe. Put the chiles into a bowl, cover
them with water, and leave them to stand overnight.

On serving day:  preheat the oven to 325 F.  Cut the chicken into
serving pieces.  Set the giblets aside. Melt 3 tablespoons lard and
brown the chicken pieces well. Drain off the excess fat. Cover the
pan and braise the chicken in the oven, without liquid, until it is
tender---40 to 60 minutes, depending on toughness. Put the giblets
into the pan with the rest of the ingredients.  Cover them with water
and bring them to a boil. Lower the flame and simmer for 1-1/4 to
1-1/2 hours. Strain the broth and set it aside.

When the chicken is cooked, pour off the juices in the pan and set
them aside to cool, then skim off the fat and add them to the giblet
broth. Set it aside.  Blend the chiles with the water until
smooth---you may have to do them in two or three lots but try not to
add more water. Melt the shortening, and when it is hot but not
smoking, cook the chili puree over a medium flame for about 10
minutes, stirring it all the time. Keep a lid handy, as it will
splatter about. Set it aside. Put the tomatillos in a blender or food
processor.

Put the spices into a spice grinder and add the toasted, cooled seeds,
reserving 2 tablespoons of the sesame seeds for later use. Grind the
spices and seeds finely and transfer them to the blender jar. Add the
toasted garlic to the blender jar.

Melt three tablespoons of shortening in the frying pan and fry the
raisins briefly, just until they puff up, and transfer them with a
slotted spoon to the blender jar. In the same pan fry the almonds,
stirring them all the time, until they are well browned.  Remove with
a slotted spoon and crush them a little before adding them to the
blender jar. In the same pan fry the pumpkin seeds lightly, but have
a lid handy, as they pop about explosively.  Remove with a slotted
spoon and add to the blender. In the same pan fry the tortilla until
very crisp. Remove with a slotted spoon and crush it a little before
adding it to the blender. In the same pan fry the bread until crisp,
then remove with a slotted spoon and crush. Add it to the blender
jar. Blend all the ingredients together until they form a smooth
paste. If it is absolutely necessary to add some liquid to blend it
effectively, then add a little chicken broth.

Add the blended mixture to the chile sauce and cook over a brisk
flame for about five minutes, stirring the mixture constantly. Break
the chocolate into small pieces and add it to the mixture. Continue
cooking the _mole_ for about 10 minutes more, stirring it all the
time so it does not stick. Add the broth and continue cooking the
_mole_ for a minimum of 40 minutes. Add salt as necessary, then add
the chicken pieces and heat them through. Serve individually,
sprinkled with some of the reserved toasted sesame seeds.

The Cuisines of Mexico
Diana Kennedy

