Title: MOLE COLORADITO OAXAQUENO
Categories: Chicken, Oaxaca, Sauces, Mexican
Yield: 6 Servings
1    Chicken; whole cut into 8
-serving pieces
6 c  Chicken Stock; homemade
5    Ancho Chiles; dried, stems
-and seeds removed
2    Guajillo Chiles; dried stems
-and seeds removed or
-substitute New Mexican
5    Black Peppercorns; whole
5    Cloves; whole
2    Cinnamon Stick; 2" pieces
1    White Onion;peeled,quartered
10    Cloves Garlic
3 tb Lard or Vegetable oil
1 sm French Roll; sliced
1 sm Plantain; or substitute
-a banana
2 tb Raisins
1/4 c  Sesame Seeds
10    Almonds; whole
2 md Tomatoes; quartered
3    Marjoram sprigs, or Oregano
1    Bar Mexican Chocolate; or
-to taste, (3.5oz is best)
-use Ibarra or Abuelita
2    Avocado leaves; bay leaves
Salt to taste
: Seenote: dried peppers; Mikenote, After the peppers have been
toasted and soaked I strain them through a foley food mill, to remove
ALL of the skin and seeds. This is a longer messier solution to
grinding them in a blender but it makes a smoother, less stringent
sauce. Another method is to toast and soak the peppers and then lay
them down on a cutting board and use the blade of knife, scrape the
reconstituted pepper off from the skin..... longer, messier, but
do-able....
Simmer the chicken in stock until tender about 1/2 hour. Remove the
chicken and keep warm and reserve the stock.
In a large frying pan or comal, toast the chiles, turning once until
darkened, but not burned. Toast the guajillo a little longer because
of their tougher skins. Place the chiles in a bowl and cover with hot
water to soak for 1/2 hour to soften. Remove the chiles and place in
a blender or food processor and puree, adding a little chile water if
necessary, strain.
Toast the peppercorns, cloves, and cinnamon lightly in a dry pan or
comal. Cool and grind in a molcajete or spice grinder.
In the same pan, roast the onion and garlic cloves until slightly
browned. Cool and place in a food processor and puree with a little
water. Heat the lard in a pan until smoking hot, and fry the bread
until lightly brown, remove and drain on paper towels. Fry the
plantain on both sides until brown, remove and drain. Quickly fry the
raisins, remove. Lower the heat and add the sesame seeds, stirring
constantly for a couple of minutes. Then add the almonds and continue
to fry until both are well browned. Remove, drain, and combine with
the bread, plantain and raisins, reserving some of the sesame seeds
for garnish. Place in a food processor or blender and puree, adding a
little water if necessary. Wipe out the skillet with a cloth and add
1 tb lard. When it is hot, add the tomatoes and fry well. Place in a
blender or food processor and puree, remove. Heat a tablespoon of
lard in a cazuela or heavy pot until smoking. Add the chile puree and
fry, stirring constantly, so it will not burn. It tends to splatter
about, so be careful! Fry for a couple of minutes, add the tomato
puree, the ground spices, and the marjoram and heat through. Stir in
the bread mixture and continue to heat, stirring constantly. Add the
chocolate and the avocado leaves, thin with the reserved chicken
stock and continue to simmer for 30 minutes. Add the chicken, adjust
the salt, and heat through. Serve with black beans, rice, and
tortillas. Heat scale medium

