Title: MOM'S CINNAMON ROLLS (DOROTHY SCHMIDT)
Categories: None
Yield: 1 Servings
12 c  Flour
3/4 c  Margarine
3 c  Water
1 c  Sugar
3 pk Yeast
1 1/2 tb Salt
3    Eggs
Brown Sugar
1 c  Butter
These rolls have alot of layers due to how thin the dough is rolled
out. Mrs. Schmidt says that beating the ingredients a real lot is
what makes this come out well. There is also a trick to getting the
sprinkled water just right, just a few drops, here and there.

Sprinkle yeast in 3 cups of warm water with 1 tbsp. sugar, mix and
let sit 10 min.  Add 3 cups of flour and beat well with beater. Let
rise until spongy (30 min.) Beat 3 eggs really well, 5 minutes
(Frothy & Fluffy). Soften margarine and add 1 cup sugar and beat
really, really well till very creamy.  Add to eggs and beat till very
well blended and add salt. Add egg mixture to sponge mixture.  Add
approximately four to 5 cups flour and beat with a beater really well
till smooth. Continue adding flour (4 more cups) one cup at a time,
beating with a wooden spoon. When it is hard to stir put the rest of
the flour on a board and put the dough in the middle and knead. (You
don't have to knead in all the flour-only until not sticky and easy
to handle.  Put the dough in a warm oven and cover with a damp cloth.
Let rise until doubled (about 1 hour.) Fix pans for Rolls. Grease 2
large rectangular baking pans with margarine. Sprinkle liberally (not
packed) (1/4" deep) with brown sugar and dot liberally with butter (1
stick per pan) Sprinkle very lightly with water to keep the sugar
from burning and sticking.  Punch down dough and let rise 1/2 hour
more. Turn out and take 1/2 of the dough and roll out to 1/2" thick
rectangle. Spread with soft butter (over all of rectangle) and
sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon. Roll up jelly roll style, pulling
to stretch dough while rolling. Cut roll into 1" thick slices. Place
in pan-just touching (don't crowd) let rise (covered with a damp
cloth) until above the pans. Bake at 325-350 for 20-25 min.

