Title: MONTMORENCY CAKE
Categories: Cakes, Fruit
Yield: 1 Cake
14 oz Semisweet chocolate; broken
-into bits (or use chips)
2 tb Instant coffee granules; opt
1/2 c  Kirsch
4    Eggs; separated
12 tb Unsalted butter; room temp
1/3 c  All-purpose flour
1 pn Salt
2/3 c  Granulated sugar
1 lb Fresh cherries or one 1-lb
-can pitted sour cherries
-packed in water, drained
Fresh cherries for garnish
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F.  Line the bottom of a 9-inch cake pan
with a piece of buttered waxed paper or baking parchment, then spread
the sides evenly with butter.

In a heavy-bottomed saucepan set over low heat, melt 8 ounces of the
chocolate with 1 tablespoon of the coffee granules and 1/4 cup kirsch,
stirring until smooth. Off heat stir in the egg yolks, one at a time,
then return the pan to the heat and stir the mixture briefly until
the yolks are warmed and have thickened the chocolate slightly. Off
heat again, beat in the butter by tablespoons, stirring until smooth.
Stir in the flour.

Beat the egg whites with the pinch of salt until they form soft peaks.
Sprinkle on 1/3 cup of the sugar and continue beating until the
whites form fairly stiff and shiny peaks. Fold the warm chocolate
mixture delicately into the meringue and turn the batter into the
prepared pan. Bake at 375'F for 20-25 minutes, until the cake has
puffed and a knife inserted in the center comes out with only a
slightly creamy layer. Do not overcook. Set the pan on a rack to cool
for at least 45 minutes before unmolding. As it cools, the cake will
sink and the surface will crack slightly.

You can prepare the cherries while the cake is baking and cooling.
Pit the fruit and set in a saucepan with the remaining 1/3 cup sugar
and 2 tablespoons kirsch. Cook over medium-low heat, partially
covered, for 30-40 minutes, stirring occasionally. Uncover the pan
for the last 10 minutes or so; the cherries should reduce to a thick
compote. When done, allow to cool, then chop roughly and set aside.
(If you are using canned cherries, prepare them as above, but cook
them for only 20-25 minutes.)

Invert the cake onto a serving platter and remove the paper. Using a
large spoon, trace about a 5-inch circle in the center of the cake;
then scoop out the top part of the circle, leaving at least 1/2 inch
of cake at the bottom. Add the scooped-out cake to the cherries and
stir together well. Return the chocolate-cherry mixture back into the
cake, smoothing it nicely with a flexible metal spatula.

In a heavy-bottomed saucepan, melt remaining chocolate with 1
tablespoon coffee granules, 3 tablespoons water and 2 tablespoons
kirsch, stirring occasionally until smooth. Allow to cool slightly,
then spread evenly over the top and sides of the cake. Use a towel
dipped in hot water to remove any smudges from the platter and set
the cake in the refrigerator until 30 minutes before serving. The
chocolate glaze will lose a bit of its shine when chilled, but the
cake is really better served slightly below room temperature. Serve
the cake garnished, if you wish, with more whole cherries.

Variation: For the cherries in the recipe substitute a puree of fresh
figs; or chopped dried pitted prunes or dried apricots, plumped in
water and a little kirsch and flavored with orange marmalade.

Source:  "New Menus From Simca's Cuisine" by Simone Beck (1979) (as
reprinted in Malla Pollack, Note, Intellectual Property Protection
for the Creative Chef, or How to Copyright A Cake: A Modest Proposal,
12 Cardozo L. Rev. 1477, 1523, n. 130 (1991)).

