Title: MOO GOO GAIPAN #1
Categories: Chinese, Chicken
Yield: 6 Servings
Marinade:
1 tb Ginger, finely grated
1 1/2 ts Sesame oil
1 ts White wine
1/2 ts Sugar
1/4 ts Salt
1 1/2 ts Oyster sauce
1/2 ts Light soy sauce
1 ts Cornstarch
Pinch freshly ground white
-pepper
1/2 lb Chicken breasts, strips
SAUCE:
1/2 ts Sugar
2 ts Oyster sauce
1 ts Light soy sauce
1/2 ts Sesame oil
2 ts Cornstarch
1 pn White pepper
5 tb Chicken stock
3 1/2 tb Peanut oil
1 tb Ginger, minced
1/4 ts Salt
1/4 lb Mushrooms, sliced
6 oz Snow peas, sliced
1/4 c  Bamboo shoots, sliced
4    Water chestnuts, sliced
1    Clove garlic, minced
1 tb White wine
1.  MAKE THE MARINADE:  Place the grated ginger in a small strainer
set over a medium bowl.  Press hard with the back of a spoon to
extract 1 teaspoon of juice; discard the ginger pulp. Stir in the
remaining marinade ingredients.  Add the chicken and toss to coat
well. Cover and set aside to marinate for 30 minutes. 2. MAKE THE
SAUCE: In a large bowl, combine all the sauce ingredients and
reserve. 3. Heat a wok over high heat for 30 seconds.  Add 2
tablespoons of the peanut oil and turn the wok to coat with oil. When
a wisp of white smoke appears, add the ginger and salt. Stir, using a
large metal spatula, for 10 seconds. Add the mushrooms and stir fry
for 10 seconds. Add the snow peas, bamboo shoots and water chestnuts;
sprinkle with a little water and stir fry for 2 minutes. Transfer the
vegetables to a bowl and set aside. Wipe out the wok with paper
towels. 4. Heat the wok over high heat for 20 seconds and add the
remaining 1 1/2 tablespoons peanut oil.  Turn the wok to coat with
oil. When a wisp of white smoke appears, add the garlic. When it
begins to brown, add the chicken with the marinade.  Spread the
chicken out in a single layer and cook undisturbed for 2 minutes.
Turn the chicken pieces over and cook for 1 more minute. Drizzle the
wine down the inside rim of the wok and stir it into the chicken.
Continue to cook until the chicken is cooked through, about 1 minute
longer. 5. Add the reserved vegetables and stir fry for 2 minutes.
Make a well in the center of the mixture. Stir the sauce to combine
and pour it into the well. Mix all the ingredients together, bring
the sauce to a boil and cook until thickened, about 30 seconds.
Transfer to a warm platter and serve immediately.

