Title: MOUSSE AU CHOCOLATE
Categories: Chocolate, Desserts
Yield: 6 Servings
4    Egg yolks
1/4 c  Superfine sugar
2 tb Cognac
6 oz Semisweet chocolate, cut in
-small chunks
3 tb Strong coffee
8 tb Butter; soft, unsalted or
-Sweet (1 stick) cut into
-1/2" pieces
4    Egg whites
1/2 c  Heavy cream; whipped
Brush the inside of a 1-quart charlotte (cylindrical) or ring mold
with a film of vegetable oil. Invert the mold on paper towels to
drain.
In a heatproof mixing bowl, beat the egg yolks and sugar with a
whisk, rotary or electric beater for 2 or 3 minutes or until they are
pale yellow and thick enough to form a ribbon when the whisk is
lifted from the bowl. Beat in the Cognac.
Set the mixing bowl over a pan of barely simmering (not boiling)
water, and continue beating for 3 or 4 minutes or until the mixture
is foamy and hot. Then set the bowl over a pan of iced water and beat
for 3 or 4 minutes longer, or until the mixture is cool again and as
thick and creamy as mayonnaise.
In a heavy 4 to 6-quart saucepan, melt the chocolate with the
coffee over hot water, stirring constantly. When all the chocolate
has dissolved, beat in the butter, one piece at a time, to make a
smooth cream. Then beat the chocolate mixture into the egg yolks and
sugar.
In a separate bowl, with a clean whisk or beater, beat the egg
whites until they are stiff enough to form stiff peaks on the wires
of the whisk. Stir about 1/4 of the egg whites into the chocolate
mixture to lighten it, then very gently fold in the remaining egg
whites. Spoon the mousse into the oiled mold or dessert cups and
refrigerate for at least 4 hours or until it has set.
To unmold and serve, run a long, sharp knife around the sides of
the mold and dip the bottom of it in hot water for a few seconds.
Then wipe the outside of the mold dry, place a chilled serving plate
upside down over the mold, and grasping both sides firmly, quickly
turn the plate and mold over. Rap the plate on a table and the mousse
should slide easily out of the mold. If the mousse doesn't unmold at
once, repeat the whole process.
With a wire whisk, rotary or electric beater, whip the chilled
cream in a large bowl until it is firm enough to hold it's shape
softly. Garnish with mousse with the whipped cream and serve.

Source: Recipes: The Cooking of Provincial France, Foods of the World,
Time/Life Books (c) 1968 Typed by .\\ichele

