Title: MUFFINS & CRUMPETS (MRS. BEETON'S)
Categories: Breads, Mrs. beeton
Yield: 24 Servings
1 qt Water
2 oz Yeast
1/2 lb Potatoes
1/2 oz Salt
Makes 24 Muffins or Crumpets

flour

MUFFINS: Wash, peel and boil the potatoes, rub through a colander,
add the water (just warm enough to bear the hand in it without
discomfort); then dissolve the yeast and salt in it, and stir in
sufficient flour to make a moist paste. Beat it well in a deep bowl
and then clear off the paste from the hands; cover over with a clean
cloth and leave it to rise in a warm place. When it has well risen,
and is light and spongy, turn it out on the table, dredge over with
flour, and then divide it off into pieces about 3 oz in weight, roll
them up into round shapes, and set them on a wooden tray, well dusted
with flour to prove. When light enough, see that the hot plate is
hot, and then carefully transfer the muffins from the tray, one at a
time, using a thin tin slice for the purpose, taking particular care
not to knock out the proof or the muffins will be spoilt. When they
have been properly cooked on one side, turn over with the slice and
cook the other side. When the muffins are done, brush off the flour,
and lay them on a clean cloth or sieve to cool.

To toast them, divide the edge of the muffin all round by pulling it
open to the depth of about 1 inch with the fingers. Put it on a
toasting fork and hold it before a clear fire till one side is nicely
browned, but not burnt; turn, and toast it on the other. Do not toast
them too quickly, otherwise the middle of the muffin will not be
warmed through. When done, divide them by pulling them open; butter
them slighlty on both sides, put them together again, and cut them
into halves. Pile on a hot dish and send quickly to table.

Time: 25 to 30 minutes to bake. Sufficient for about 2 dozen muffins.

CRUMPETS: Proceed exactly the same as directed for Muffins (above),
but stir in only half the quantity of flour used for them, so that
the mixture is more of a batter than a sponge. Cover over, and leave
for 1/2 an hour. At the end of that time take a large wooden spoon
and well beat up the batter, leave in the spoon, cover over, and
leave for another 1/2 an hour. Then give the batter another good beat
up. This process must be repeated 3 times with the intervals. When
completed, see that the hot plate is quite hot, lay out some crumpet
rings rubbed over inside with a little clean lard on a baking tin,
and pour in sufficient of the batter to make the crumpets. When
cooked on one side, turn over with a palette-knife, and when done
take off on to a clean cloth to cool. Muffins and crumpets should
always be served on separate dishes, and both toasted and served as
quickly as possible.

Time: about 20 minutes to cook. Sufficient for about 2 dozen.

From: Mrs. Beeton's All About Cookery, Ward, Lock & Co., Ltd., London
& Melbourne, (circa 1890's).

Posted by June Hoffman, 8/93

