Title: MUSHROOM & CELERY ROOT GALETTE W MUSHROOM SAU
Categories: Vegetables, Sauces, Pies/tarts
Yield: 4 Main-dish
MMMMM------------------------NORMA WRENN-----------------------------
1 sm Celery root (3/4 lb)
2 md Leeks
1 lb White mushrooms
3 tb Olive oil
1 lg Onion; finely chopped
1    Lemon; halved
1/2 ts Dried tarragon
Salt/freshly ground pepper
2 md Garic cloves; minced
1/4 c  Fresh flat-leaf parsley
+ more for garnish; chopped
Mushroom Sauce
1/2 c  Creme fraiche or sour cream
2 tb Freshly grated Parmesan or
Asiago cheese
Yeast Dough or Pie Dough
1 lg Egg; beaten
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees.  Thoroughly scrub the celery root,
trim off a thin piece from both ends and peel; set aside the
trimmings. Thinly slice the celery crosswise, then cut into 1/4-inch
dice. Transfer to a nonreactive bowl and cover with cold water to
prevent discoloration. Trim the root end and the dark green portion
of the leeks; set aside. Coarsely chop the remaining white and tender
green portion of the leek and rinse well but don't dry. Trim off the
mushroom stems and set aside. Slice the mushroom caps crosswise
1/2-inch thick. (Use the celery root trimmings, leek trimmings and
mushroom stems to make the Mushroom Sauce.)

In a large nonreactive skillet, heat 2 tablespoons of the oil oer low
heat. Using a slotted spoon, transfer the diced celey root to the
skillet. Add the chopped leeks and onion. Squeeze half a lemon over
the vegetables, add the tarragon and cook until the liquid is
evaporated and the vegetables are tender and just beginning to brown,
about 12 minutes. Season with salt and pepper.  Transfer the mixture
to a nonreactive bowl.

In the same skillet, heat the remaining 1 tablespoon oil over high
heat until it starts to shimmer.  Stir inthe mushrooms until coated
with oil, then squeeze the remaining lemon half over them. Cook until
the mushrooms begin to color, about 2 minutes.  Season with the
parsley and salt and pepper. Remove from the heat and stir in the
celery root mixture. Fold in 1/2 cup of the Mushroom Sauce, teh creme
fraiche and the Parmesan.

On a lightly floured baking sheet without sides, roll out the galette
dough into a 14-inch round. (Alternatively, divide the dough into 4
even pieces and roll into 8-inch rounds.)  Spread the filling over
the dough, leaving a 2-inch border.  Fold up and pleat the border of
the dough. Brush the dough with the beaten egg. Bake the galette
until golden, about 30 minutes for Yeast Dough and 40 minutes for Pie
Dough.

To serve, pour 1/4 cup of the Mushroom Sauce over the top of the
Mushroom Sauce over the top of the galette. Garnish with chopped
parsley. Cut the galette in wedges and spoon some of the sauce over
each one.

Source:  Food & Wine 3/94:  Deborah Madison is the author of "The
Savory Way," "The Greens Cookbook" and the forthcoming "The
Vegetarian Joy of Cooking" (all by Bantam).

