Title: MUSHROOM VARENIKI WITH ROASTED TOMATO & RED P
Categories: Low, Fat
Yield: 1 Servings
1 md Onion
6    Cloves garlic
2 c  Mushrooms (I used a mixture
Shiitake, dried porcini,
And
Button mushrooms)
2 ts Fresh thyme
1 md Potato (~ 6 oz)
For the sauce:
1 lg Red bell pepper
10    Roma tomatoes
~ 1 C canned tomatoes with
Juice
For the dough:
2 c  Flour (I use a 1:4 mix of ww
And white)
1/2 c  NF milk or soy milk
1    Egg or 1 eggs worth of your
Substitute of choice
1 ts Salt
To make the dough: place the ingredients in a food processor. Process
until it forms a ball.  Knead by hand for ~ 5 min. then wrap it in
plastic and let the dough rest for 30 min.

To make the sauce: Give the red bell and the fresh toms a quick spray
with some food release spray (like PAM). place under a broiler and
cook, turning occasionally until they begin to char (10-15 min).
Place the veggies alon with the canned toms into your food processor
or food mill and puree. Force the puree through a sieve to smooth it
out a bit. Add salt and pepper to taste along with some chili paste.
Put the sauce in a pan and keep it warm ~ the vareniki will finish
cooking in it.

To make the filling: Finely chop the garlic and onion ~ begin to
saute in a little veg stock.  Chop the mushrooms very fine and add to
the onion mix. Cook this over medium heat until the mushrooms just
begin to brown. Take off the heat.  While the shrooms are cooking
peel and slice the potato and zap it in the microwave for a few
minutes until it's cooked enough to mash. Mash the potato in with the
mushroom mix. Season to taste. Oh yeah - add the thyme a couple of
minutes after you add the mushrooms.

To assemble: Divide the dough into thirds.  Roll the dough to ~ 1/8"
thic and cut into 3 1/2" inch circles. Place ~ 1tsp of the filling in
the center of each circle. Fold the dough over to form a half-moon
shape and seal it shut with your fingers. Place them on a lightly
floured towel while you finish making the others.

To cook: bring a pot of water to a boil.  Add 8 or 9 vareniki to the
water. Wait for them to float to the top, then wait ~ 1 minute longer
before removing, place into a bowl to keep warm. Cook the remaining
vareniki the same way.  When all are done cooking dump them into the
sauce and cook over low heat for 5-10 minutes.

This will serve 3-4 people depending on what else you have with it.

PS: add 1 sliced onion to the other veg for roasting.

From:    <"HEANEY.RAY_K"@portland.va.gov>

For the filling: converted to MM by Donna Webster
donna@webster.post.demon.co.uk Submitted By DONNA@WEBSTER.DEMON.CO.UK
On FRI, 03 NOV 1995 163145 GMT

