Title: MUSHROOM RAVIOLI WITH GARLIC SAUCE
Categories: Pasta, Garlic
Yield: 16 Ravioli
1/2 lb Mushrooms
8    Green olives
1 T  Butter
2 T  Olive oil
2 T  Onion; finely chopped
1/4 ts Greek oregano
1 T  Parsley; finely chopped
Salt
1    Garlic clove; minced
Pepper
32    Wonton skins
Parmigiano-Reggiano;
-grated
MMMMM-----------------------MUSHROOM SAUCE----------------------------
8    Porcini, dried (cepes)
3 1/2 c  ;Water, hot
2 ts Butter
2 ts Olive oil
1 c  Onion; diced
2 pn Oregano, dried
1 pn Thyme, dried
1    Bay leaf
2 T  Parsley; roughly chopped
4    Mushrooms; roughly
-chopped
2    Garlic clove; roughly
-chopped
Salt
2 ts Butter
1 T  Flour
1 c  Wine, red, dry
1 ts Dijon mustard
1 ts Tomato paste; or sun-dried
-tomato puree
Pepper
Chop the mushrooms finely, either by hand or in a food processor, so
that they end up in coarse fragments rather than fine pieces, 1/8
inch or so long.  Press down on the olives to break out the pits or,
if this doesn't seem to work (this is a little harder with green
olives than with black), slice away the flesh with a paring knife and
chop them slightly finer than the mushrooms.

Heat the butter and oil in a skillet and add the onion, oregano,
parsley, and mushrooms. Salt lightly and cook over brisk heat,
stirring constantly, for five or six minutes.  The mushrooms should
start to color a little and the onions soften.  Add the garlic during
the last few minutes of cooking so that it doesn't burn. Season with
pepper and set aside to cool before filling the ravioli.

Lay out 16 wonton skins.  Heap two to three teaspoons of filling
neatly into the center of the squares, then paint the edges with
water and cover securely with the top pieces of dough.  Firmly press
the sides together, squeeze out any air, and cut with a ravioli
crimper to secure. Set the ravioli aside on a tray dusted with flour,
cover, and refrigerate until ready to use.

Make the sauce below.  To cook the ravioli, slip them into gently
boiling salted water and simmer until the edges of the squares are
done and they rise to the surface, about three to five minutes. Serve
in warm pasta plates with the sauce and a grating of
Parmigiano-Reggiano.

Sauce:  Cover the dried mushrooms with the hot water and set them
aside to soak while you prepare all the other ingredients. When
you're ready to use them, run your fingers over the mushrooms to
loosen any hidden sand, then pour the soaking water through a paper
towel. Heat the butter and oil in a wide skillet or a saucepan and
add the onion, dried herbs, parsley, fresh mushrooms and garlic. Cook
over medium-high heat, stirring frequently, for about five minutes.
Add salt to taste and continue cooking until the onions begin to
color a little, another few minutes. Add another two teaspoons of
butter to the pan.  Stir in the flour, working it into the vegetables
as well as you can; the whole mass will be quite thick, and the pan
will become very dry.  Next pour in the red wine, bring it to a boil,
and let it reduce for a few minutes.  Stir in the mustard and tomato
paste and pour in the mushrooms and their soaking water. Bring to a
boil and cover the pan; then lower the heat and simmer slowly for 25
minutes. Strain and season to taste with salt and pepper.  (This
sauce would also be good with other pasta or rice.)

From The Savory Way by Deborah Madison

