Title: MY GRANDMOTHER'S GEFILTE FISH RECIPE
Categories: Seafood
Yield: 1 Servings
-----fish-----
1    Buffalo; (or other fatty fis
1    Salmon
1    Walleye pike
-----broth-----
4    Onions; cut in half
4    Celery stalks; including lea
2    Carrots
Fish bones and skin
-----fish balls-----
2 lg Onions; coarsely ground
1 ts Sugar; (optional)
1 ts White pepper
Salt; to taste
1/4 c  Matzo meal; approximately
4    Whites
2    Yolks
1/2 c  Extremely cold water; * see
Recipe by: maury@turing.eecs.uic.edu (Maurine Neiberg) NOTES:

Have the fish market fillet them and give you the bones and skin for
broth. At this time of year the fish market will probably grind the
fish for you too, which is an enormous time saver.

Fish fillets ground through a meat grinder. Sometimes the fish market
will do this for you.  Food processors do not work well for this. The
texture is wrong, too mushy.)

* put in freezer, but make sure there's no ice in it.

Broth: Put above ingredients in the largest pot you own and cover it
with water.  Bring to a boil and simmer for 2-3 hours. This should
make a fairly rich stock.

In a wooden bowl, using a round bladed chopper chop ground fish and
ground onions.  Use a turning motion, working as much air in a
possible. (This is where the visual aids come in handy.) Chop for
about 10 minutes. Add matzo meal and spices and keep chopping using
the same motions (about 5 more minutes).  Beat egg whites until
frothy (not stiff) and pour over the fish mixture.  Beat egg yolks
well, add the very cold water and pour over fish mixture.  DO NOT
MIX.  Chop the mixture, adding more air, until eggs are well worked
in.

Strain fish broth and bring back to a gentle simmer. Make balls of
the fish mixture (handle as little as possible) and drop gentley in
broth. Peel and slice carrots into 1/4 inch rounds and add to broth.
Partially cover and simmer for about 2 hours.  Turn the balls
occasionally if there are too many for them to turn on their own.

When cooked, remove fish balls and place in a single layer in storage
containers.  Remove carrot slices from broth and put one carrot on
each fish ball. Refrigerate.

Bring fish broth to a boil and boil lightly for about 3 hours, or
until reduced to 1/3 - 1/2 of its original volume. Pour reduces broth
over fish balls and refrigerate until cold and broth has jelled.
Serve cold with horse raddish.

Serves about 20 people with leftovers.

