Title: MY MOTHER'S LETTUCE PACKAGES
Categories: Entrees, Chinese, Cathe
Yield: 4 Servings
1    Lettuce head
4 c  Corn oil
1/3 c  Walnut pieces
1 oz Bean thread noodles
1 tb Garlic, minced
12 oz Pork, ground
2    Green onions
1 cn Smoked clams
1 cn Water chestnuts (small)
1 c  Lettuce, coarsely chopped
1 tb Soy sauce
1/4 ts Cayenne pepper
2 tb Oyster sauce
1 ts Sherry
1/4 ts Sugar
1 ts Sesame oil
2 ts Cornstarch, mixed with
1 tb Water
Cut green onions into pea-sized pieces.  Drain and chop coarsely the
smoked clams and water chestnuts. Detach lettuce leaves from core,
wash and dry them gently. Arrange lettuce leaves around the edge of a
large platter.

Heat oil in wok until it is about to smoke.  Tear bean thread noodles
apart and cut with scissors into small portions. Carefully put a
portion of the noodles into the hot oil. (They will expand
dramatically!) As soon as they expand, turn them over and cook the
other side briefly. Drain them and remove to a bowl lined with
several layers of paper towels. Cook the remaining noodles in the
same way. Drain them very well with paper towels and then crunch them
and put them into the center of the serving platter, surrounded by
the lettuce leaves.

Put the walnuts into a strainer and immerse them into the hot oil.
They will brown very quickly.  Be careful they do not burn. Remove
them to a paper towel, drain well and chop into coarse pieces.

Remove all but 2 T of oil from the wok.  Saute the minced garlic and
chopped green onions until lightly browned. Add the ground pork and
saute until it loses its pink color and starts to brown. Use a large
spoon to remove as much grease as possible from the pork mixture.

Add the chopped smoked clams, chopped water chestnuts and chopped
lettuce to the pork mixture.  Mix well.

Combine the soy sauce, cayenne, oyster sauce, sherry, sugar and
sesame oil; stir into the cooking mixture and cook for two minutes,
stirring constantly.  Remix the cornstarch and water and add to the
middle of the wok.  Stir constantly, blending other ingredients into
cornstarch mixture and simmer three more minutes.

Pour the cooked dish on top of the bean thread needles on the serving
platter.  Sprinkle the walnut pieces on top and serve at once. To eat:
Place a lettuce leaf on your plate. Put a spoonful of the pork
mixture and noodles in the middle of the leaf.  Fold the leaf up and
eat the package like a bared.  Serves 12 as part of a family style
Chinese dinner, 4 as a main dish.

