Title: NASI GORENG #2
Categories: Grains, Indonesian
Yield: 6 Servings
-JUDI M. PHELPS
3    Eggs
Salt & pepper
Oil for frying
8 oz Raw prawns
1 lb Pork or lean beef steak
2 md Onions
2    Cloves garlic
1/2 ts Dried shrimp paste (trasi)
4 c  Cold cooked rice
6    Spring onions; thinly sliced
2 tb Light soy sauce
3 tb Onion flakes
1    Green cucumber;thinly sliced
MMMMM---------------------FRIED ONION FLAKES--------------------------
2    To 3 onions; thinly sliced
*Note:  Dried shrimp paste can be purchased at Asian food markets.

Beat eggs with salt and pepper to taste.  Heat very little oil in a
frying pan and make an omelette with half the beaten eggs. Turn on to
a plate to cool (do not fold omelette). Repeat process with remaining
beaten eggs. When cool, put one omelette on top of the other, roll up
and cut into thin strips.

Shell and devein prawns, cut beef or pork into fine strips. Chop
onions roughly and put in blender container with garlic and trasi.
Cover and blend to a paste. (If blender is not available, finely chop
onions and crush garlic.  Dissolve trasi in a little hot water.
Combine these three ingredients.

Heat 3 tablespoons of oil in a large frying pan or wok and fry the
blended ingredients until cooked.  Add prawns and meat to pan and
fry, stirring constantly, until they are cooked. Add 2 tablespoons
more oil and when hot stir in the rice and spring onions, tossing and
mixing thoroughly until very hot.  Sprinkle with soy sauce and mix
evenly.

Serve the fried rice garnished with strips of omelette, fried onion
flakes and cucumber.

FOR FRIED ONION FLAKES: Slice the onions very thinly, making sure not
only that the slices are paper thin, but also they are all the same
thinness, otherwise some will burn while others are uncooked. Fry in
deep hot oil until deep brown, but not black. Lift out, and drain.
They must be cooked slowly so that all moisture is cooked out.
Source: The Asian Cookbook by Charmaine Solomon.

Shared and MM by Judi M. Phelps. jphelps@shell.portal.com,
juphelps@delphi.com, or jphelps@best.com

