Title: NEVER FAIL PASTRY MIX
Categories: Pies, Desserts
Yield: 20 Servings
MMMMM-------------------PASTRY MIX INGREDIENTS------------------------
6 c  Flour
1 tb Salt
1 lb Can of vegetable shortening
MMMMM--------------------TO MAKE 1 PIE CRUST-------------------------
2 c  Pastry mix
2 tb To 3; ice water
TO MAKE MIX:

Sift flour and salt together into a large bowl

Drop shortening into the mixture by spoonfuls and with a pastry
blender or two knives,cut it into the flour mixture until the mixture
is crumbly. Stop when the mixture still looks coarse--do not let it
become smooth. If you know exactly how the mixture should look you
can do this in the food processor, but be careful not to over process.

Store pastry mix in a tightly sealed container on pantry shelf in
medium to cool weather for 1 to 3 months. If the weather is warm or
humid, it is better to keep this in the refrigerator. Let it warm to
room temperature and recrumble a bit if needed before using.

TO USE:

For a single pie crust you will need:

2 cups Pastry mix 2 to 3 tb ice water

Toss the mix and ice water gently unitl the mixture begins to stick
together.

Turn the dough out onto a floured surface--formica, marble or a
cutting board--and gently roll out a circle to fit your pie pan. Some
people use a pastry cloth or a square of clean muslin to cover the
surface they are working on, roll the pastry out right on the cloth,
and then lift the cloth and pastry, turn it uside down into the pan,
and peel the cloth away.

As you lift the dough into the pan, remember that tears can be
repaired with a bit of water and a small piece of dough, or you could
remove the holey inadequate curst, knead it back together and try
again. The more you knead, however, the tougher the pie crust will
become, so practice until you have a light sure touch.

Cheap Trick:

If you fear that you'll never get the hang of rolling out a pie crust
that doesn't tear apart, you might try placing a ball of dough into a
large size plastic bag and roll the dough while it is still int he
bag. When it isthe right size, cut open the bag, remove the top
sheet, flip the dough inot your pan,and remove the bottom sheet.

Source:  Cheaper And Better Alternatives to Storebought Goods by:
Nancy Birnes

Found by Fran McGee

