Title: NOT JUST FOR BREAKFAST: LIGHT PANCAKES & WAFF
Categories: Vegetarian, Breakfast
Yield: 1 Servings
None
Article by By Nanette Blanchard

Most of the countries of the world serve some sort of pancake, from
French crepes to Russian blini. Even waffles can either be Belgian or
just plain American. Unfortunately, many waffle and pancake recipes
are high in fat and really heavy. Is it possible to lighten up your
morning pancakes? Yes, it is!

Sourdough starters, yeast, and other leaveners like baking soda and
baking powder are used in dairy-free pancakes and waffles. All these
batters will improve after standing; so don't be afraid to cover and
refrigerate overnight before cooking. Leftover pancakes and waffles
freeze quite well. I use the microwave to heat up frozen pancakes,
and I pop frozen waffles into the toaster to regain their nice crispy
texture.

Pancakes should be cooked on a hot griddle. One way to prepare
pancakes for a large group of people at the same time is to use a
large griddle or two or three nonstick skillets at once. I have a
nice enameled cast iron griddle that fits over two range burners; so
I can prepare about 8-10 pancakes at the same time. To keep pancakes
warm until serving time, place on a platter covered with foil in a
200- degree oven. Waffles should be placed directly on your oven's
racks at 200 degrees to keep warm.

All waffle irons are not created equal. I've tested several different
models and found some are more nonstick than others. To prevent a
sticky waffle disaster, pre-season your waffle iron each time you
make a batch by brushing  with vegetable oil or spraying with
vegetable cooking spray. Repeat this process if you notice the
waffles beginning to stick.

Whether you use your grandmother's heavy old four-waffle baker or one
of the new fancy-shaped nonstick models, you really don't need to use
a lot of oil to cook waffles.  Some new waffle irons have a
temperature setting which gives you more control over the waffle's
doneness. (All the waffles in this article were tested in
Vitantonio's Five-of-Hearts nonstick waffler.)

This article originally appeared in the March/April, 1994 issue of the
_Vegetarian_Journal_, published by the Vegetarian Resource Group, PO
Box 1463, Baltimore, MD 21203.

From: bobbi@clark.net (Bobbi Pasternak).  rfvc Digest V94 Issue #204,
Sept. 22, 1994. Formatted by Sue Smith, S.Smith34,
TXFT40A@Prodigy.com using MMCONV.

