Title: NOT YO' MAMMA'S RED BEANS
Categories: None
Yield: 1 Servings
6    Main dish servings
1 lb Red beans
2 ts Salt
1 1/2 ts Onion powder
1 1/2 ts Dried basil
1 ts Garlic powder
1 ts Dry mustard
1/2 ts Ground black pepper
1/2 ts White pepper
1/2 ts Dried oregano
1/2 ts Cayenne
3 c  Chopped onions, divided
1 c  Chopped green bell pepper
1/2 c  Chopped celery
8 1/2 c  Chicken stock or broth,
-divided
2 c  Grape juice, divided
4 c  Cooked long-grain white rice
1)  Day 1:  Rinse beans, place in a medium bowl and add enough water
to cover by 3 or 4 inches.  Soak overnight in the refrigerator. As
the beans absorb the water, they will more than double in volume. 2)
Day 2: Combine the seasoning mix ingredients (salt, onion powder,
basil, garlic powder, mustard, black pepper, white pepper, oregano
and cayenne) in a small bowl. Drain and rinse the beans.  Drain again
and set aside. 3) Preheat a heavy 5-quart pot, preferably nonstick,
over high heat for about 4 minutes. (If using a lighter pot, use
lower heat.) Add 2 cups of the onions, bell pepper, celery and 1
tablespoon of the seasoning mix. Stir and cook until vegetables start
to brown, about 5 minutes. Add 1/2 cup of the chicken stock, scrape
the bottom of the pot to clear all browned bits, and cook 3 minutes.
4) Add the remaining onions, stir, and cook 5 minutes. Add the
drained beans, 5 cups of the stock, and the remaining seasoning mix.
Stir and cook for 45 minutes, scraping the bottom of the pot
occasionally to check for sticking and reducing heat if mixture is
boiling too rapidly. 5) Add 1 cup grape juice and continue to cook
for 25 minutes. Caution: At this point, the starches in the beans
start to break down and sticking will occur more often.  It is
therefore important to check and clear the bottom of the pot
frequently. Add the remaining stock and grape juice, turn the heat to
medium, and cook until the beans are tender, and the liquid is thick
and begins to look creamy, about 30-35 minutes. 6) Serve over the hot
rice. from chef paul prudhomme

