Title: OLD COUNTRY BUTTERMILK PRETZELS
Categories: Crackers
Yield: 15 Servings
1 pk (2-1/4 teaspoons) active
Dry yeast
2 tb Plus 1 teaspoon sugar
1/4 c  Warm water
2/3 c  Buttermilk or rehydrated
Buttermilk powder
2 tb (1/4 stick) butter or
Margarine
1/2 c  Cold water
4 c  All-purpose flour
1 ts Salt
2 qt Water for boiling the
Pretzels
1/4 c  Baking soda
Cornmeal for sprinkling on
The baking sheet
1    Egg, lightly beaten
Coarse salt for the tops
"This is truly a gourmet pretzel -- a step beyond traditional recipes
from the Old Country. Excellent with beer or cider, but absolutely
irresistible spread with cold sour cream. 350~F. 15 to 25 minutes In
a small bowl, combine the yeast with 1 teaspoon of the sugar and the
warm water. Set aside in a warm place until the yeast starts to foam,
about 5 to 10 minutes. In a small saucepan, add the butter to the
buttermilk and bring to a boil. Stir to melt the butter completely if
necessary. Transfer the mixture to a bowl, add the cold water, stir,
and allow the mixture to cool to lukewarm. In a large bowl or in the
food processor, combine the flour and salt. Stir in the yeast mixture
and the cooled buttermilk mixture and mix well. Knead well by hand on
a lightly floured surface or by pulsing about 15 to 20 times in the
food processor, until the dough is smooth and springy to the touch.
Place the dough in a lightly oiled bowl and turn over to coat all
sides. Cover with a damp towel and set the dough in a warm place
until it has doubled in bulk, about 1-1/2 to 2 hours. Punch the dough
down and knead a few strokes. Wrap the dough in plastic wrap or wax
paper and place it in the refrigerator until well chilled,
approximately 1 hour. With a knife, cut the dough into 25 equal
pieces. Using your hands, roll each piece into a cylinder 10 to 12
inches long. (If you prefer larger, soft pretzels, cut the dough into
only 15 pieces and roll into cylinders that are 14 to 16 inches
long.) You will have a more even-looking cylinder if you place the
dough on a firm surface and roll your hands across the top, moving
from the center outward. Shape each cylinder into a pretzel by
forming a loop in the center, twisting the ends and attaching them to
the bottom of the loop. Bring the 2 quarts of water to a boil. Add
the baking soda and the remaining 2 Tablespoons sugar to the water.
Drop the pretzels into the water one at a time and, with a slotted
spoon, remove each one as it pops back up to the surface in about 2
to 3 seconds. Place the pretzels on a towel right side up to drain
for a few minutes. Then place them on a baking sheet which has been
lightly sprinkled with cornmeal. Preheat the oven to 350~F. Brush the
tops with the egg and sprinkle lightly and evenly with coarse salt.
Bake for 15 to 25 minutes, depending on size, until well browned.
Cool on a rack. Yield: 15 large or 25 small pretzels.

