Title: OLD EBBITT GRILL'S WHITE BEAN CHILI
Categories: Chicken, Tex-mex
Yield: 6 Servings
FOR THE BEANS:
1 lb White navy beans
1 sm Red bell pepper -- diced
1 sm Green bell pepper -- diced
1 md Spanish onion -- diced
2 tb Olive oil
7 c  Chicken stock
2    Cloves garlic -- diced
2 ts Cumin -- or to taste
3 ts Chili powder -- or to taste
3    Plum tomatoes -- chopped
Salt and pepper to taste
FOR THE CHICKEN:
3    Whole bone-in chicken
Breast
(14 to 16 ounces)
2 tb Olive oil
1 ts Chili powder
1 ts Cumin
1 tb Diced garlic
2 tb Chopped fresh cilantro
TO SERVE:
Salsa for topping
4    Quesadillas* or corn bread
Chopped fresh cilantro for
Garnish
For the beans: Soak beans overnight in water to cover. Drain. Over low
heat, stir peppers and onion in olive oil for one minute. Add beans
and saute over medium heat for 5 minutes, stirring constantly. Add
stock, garlic, cumin and chili powder. Simmer, uncovered, until beans
are soft, about 1 1/2 hours, adding more broth as necessary. Stir in
tomatoes about 20 minutes before beans are done and season to taste
with salt and pepper. To Roast the chicken: Crack the breast bones to
flatten. Rub breasts with oil and season with remaining ingredients.
Then roast in a preheated 350 degree oven about 30 minutes, being
sure not to overcook. Cool slightly and remove meat form bones. (If
boneless breasts are used, grilling is preferable since they would
dry out quickly if roasted.) To Serve: Place a generous portion of
beans in large, flat soup bowl. Slice chicken thinly, keeping skin on
(skin may be removed, but some of the seasoning will be lost) and
place on top of the beans. Garnish with salsa, sour cream, cilantro,
and a warm quesadilla. *Make quesadillas by tipping a soft flour
tortilla with about 1/4 cup grated cheddar cheese, 2 T sour cream,
and hot peppers to taste. Fold each into quarters and warm through in
a 350F oven. This recipe was touted by Barbra Streisand during her
visit Inauguration week. Aretha Frankin also took 3 qts home to
Detroit. (The Wash Post 2/3/93) Pam Coombes RNCM95A FOOD AND WINE
CLUB TOPIC: BUSY COOK TIME: 02/04 1:57 PM TO: PAM COOMBES (RNCM95A)
FROM: LISA CRAWLEY (TSPN00B) SUBJECT: R-MM

