Title: OLD FASHIONED CINNAMON RAISIN BRAID
Categories: Breads
Yield: 1 Servings
1/3 c  Instant mashed potato flakes
1/3 c  Boiling water
1/4    To 1/2 cup warm water
4 tb Sugar
1 pk Active dry yeast
3 c  All-purpose flour
1/4 c  Instant nonfat dry milk
1/4 c  Cold butter or margarine,
-cut into 4 pieces
1/2 c  Dark raisins
1 ts Salt
1    Egg
Cinnamon Sugar
Makes 1 loaf

Stir potato flakes into boiling water.  Cool until lukewarm. Reserve.

Combine 1/4 cup of the warm water, 1 tablespoon of the sugar and
yeast. Stir to dissolve yeast and let stand until bubbly, about 5
minutes.

Fit processor with steel blade.  Measure flour, dry milk, butter,
remaining 3 tablespoons of the sugar and salt into work bowl. Process
until mixed, about 15 seconds.

Add potato mixture to flour mixture.  Process until mixed, about 5
seconds.

Add yeast mixture and egg to flour mixture.  Turn on processor and
very slowly drizzle just enough remaining water through feed tube
into flour mixture so dough forms a ball that cleans the sides of the
bowl. Process until ball turns around bowl about 25 times. Turn off
processor and let dough stand 1 to 2 minutes.

Turn on processor and gradually drizzle in enough remaining water to
make dough soft, smooth and satiny but not sticky. Process until
dough turns around bowl about 15 times.

Turn dough onto lightly floured surface and knead 1/2 cup dark
raisins into the dough..  Shape into ball and place in lightly
greased bowl, turning to grease all sides. Cover loosely with plastic
wrap and let stand in warm place until  doubled, about 1 hour.

Punch down dough.  Prepare Cinnamon Sugar.  Divide dough into 3 equal
parts.  Shape each part into strand 20 inches long. Roll each strand
in Cinnamon Sugar. Braid strands together and place in greased
9x5x3-inch loaf pan.  Tuck ends under and pinch to seal. Let stand in
warm place until almost doubled, about 45 minutes.

Heat oven to 350 F.  Bake until evenly brown and loaf sounds hollow
when tapped, 35 - 40 minutes.

Remove immediately from pan.  Cool on wire rack.

CINNAMON SUGAR: 1/4 cup sugar 2 tsp ground cinnamon 1 Tbsp butter or
margarine, at room temperature

Mix ingredients well.

Food Processor Bread Book From the collection of Jim Vorheis

