Title: FIGGY PUDDING
Categories: English, Desserts, Puddings
Yield: 4 Servings
4 oz Suet
8 oz Flour
275 ml Milk
6 oz Dried figs
2 oz Dried apricots
1 oz Dried apples
4 oz Prunes
2 oz Dates
3 oz Raisins/sultanas
1 tb Honey
1    Wineglass brandy
-(probably 4-6 fl oz)
1/4 ts Ginger
1/4 ts Cinnamon
The day before making the pudding, put the apricots, prunes and
apples to soak in water and put the raisins and sultanas to soak in
the brandy.

Put a large saucepan full of water on to boil.  Take the stones out
of the dates and prunes (if the prunes have them):  butter a large
pudding basin. Mix the suet and flour, then add the milk gradually to
make a fairly stiff dough:  roll out and line the pudding basin with
this dough, leaving sufficient dough aside to make a top.  Melt the
honey and stir in the ginger and cinnamon:  add the brandy mixture.
Pack the fruit into the dough-lined basin and pour the honey/brandy
mixture over it. Put the suet-crust lid on the basin, then cover with
foil and tie down tightly, leaving a long end of string to make it
easy to lift out of the saucepan later.  Put the basin in the boiling
water and cook for two hours, watching to make sure the pan doesn't
boil dry: add more water if necessary. Turn out onto a dish and serve.

(A word about the pudding basin, for those unfamiliar with them. This
is a deep, somewhat narrow ceramic bowl, usually holding between 1/2
liter to a liter.  Old ones have no top, so that you must seal your
pudding with its own crust, then usually with a layer or two of
baking parchment and then lastly with foil to keep the steam and
condensation out, the whole business crumpled down around the top of
the basin and tied in place with thin string.  This tying is
something of an art, and is easy to mess up...which is why it's such
a relief that pudding basins with snap-on lids are now being made,
both plastic and metal basins now being available on the UK/Irish
side of the Atlantic. Your local cookware store may have some of
these.  Otherwise, if Tupperware [or your version of it] can
withstand being boiled, you should be able to substitute a Tupperware
bowl with a lid for the pudding basin.)

(Recipe from TAKE A BUTTOCK OF BEEFE, Verity Isitt, Ashford Press
Publishing, Southampton UK, 1987:  hardcover, ISBN 0-907069-57-6.
Recipe shared by Diane Duane:
http://www.ibmpcug.co.uk/~owls/edibilia.html)

