Title: FISH FILLETS WITH TOMATOES CAPERS & OLIVES
Categories: Fish
Yield: 6 Servings
Stephen Ceideburg
1 1/2 lb Fish fillets *
1 tb Fresh lime juice
1/4 ts Salt
1 1/2 ts Vegetable oil
1 1/2 ts Olive oil
1 md Onion, thinly sliced
45 oz Good-quality tomatoes,
-lightly drained
2    Cloves garlic, minced
12    Meaty green olives, pitted
-and coarsely chopped
2 tb Large Spanish capers
2 md Pickled jalapeno chilies,
-sliced plus:
1 tb Pickling juices
3/4 ts Dried marjoram
3/4 ts Dried thyme
2 tb Finely chopped parsley **
3    Bay leaves
1    One-inch cinnamon stick
2    Whole cloves
1/4 ts Black peppercorns, cracked
Fish broth, bottled clam
-juice or water salt (opt)
* like boneless and skinless red snapper or halibut, in 6 1 1/2-inch
thick piece. ** plus a few sprigs for garnish

Rinse fillets, place them in a non aluminum dish and sprinkle them
with lime juice and salt. Cover and refrigerate for 1 hour. In a
large nonstick skillet, heat oils over medium heat, add onions and
cook, stirring frequently, until golden, about 5 to 7 minutes.

Cut tomatoes into 1 inch pieces and place them in a bowl, collecting
the juices as you go.

Add garlic to onion and cook for a minute or so, then add tomatoes.
Simmer for 5 to 10 minutes, or until most of the liquid has
evaporated. Divide olives and capers between two small bowls and set
one aside to use for garnishes. To the other bowl, add jalapenos,
pickling juice, marjoram, thyme and chopped parsley. If you don't
want bay leaves, cinnamon, cloves and pepper in the finished sauce,
wrap them in cheesecloth and tie with a string, otherwise add them
directly to the olive mixture.

Add the olive-herb mixture to the tomatoes, along with fish stock,
clam ice or water. Simmer, covered, for 10 minutes, then taste,
adding salt if necessary. Remove the cheesecloth bag, if using, and
the bay leaves.

Remove fillets from marinade and rinse. To cook on the stovetop,
place them in the skillet, covering them well with sauce. Cover and
cook over medium heat for 4 minutes. Turn the fillets over, cover and
cook for 2 to 3 minutes longer, until they flake when pressed firmly
with a fork at the thickest part.

Alternatively, to bake, preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Place the
fillets in a single layer in a lightly oiled baking dish. Spoon the
sauce over them, cover with aluminum foil and bake for 10 to 15
minutes, or just until the fish flakes when pressed firmly with a
fork at the thickest part. Serve garnished with reserved olives,
capers and parsley.

185 CALORIES PER SERVING: 25 G PROTEIN, 5 G FAT, 10 G CARBO- HYDRATE;
249 MG SODIUM; 41 MG CHOLESTEROL.

From Authentic Mexican: Regional Cooking from the Heart of Mexico by
Rick Bayless with Deann Groen Bayless (William Morrow & Company,
1987).

Posted by Stephen Ceideburg

