Title: FLANK STEAK WITH PEPPERS STIR FRY
Categories: Meats
Yield: 4 Servings
1 lb Flank steak
3 tb Soy sauce; reduced sodium
3 tb Vegetable oil
4 ts Cornstarch
1    Bell pepper; red or green
1    Onion; medium sized
2    Celery; stalks
1/2 c  Beef broth
1/4 ts Black pepper
5    Fresh ginger; slices 1/4"thk
Cut the steak with the grain into 2" wide strips, then cut each strip
across the grain into 1/4" slices. (You will find the meat is easier
to slice if you place it in the freezer for a short while before
slicing) In a medium bowl, combine the steak with the soy sauce, 1
tb. of the oil and 2 ts. of the cornstarch.  Stir to coat the steak
and set aside. Cut the pepper into thin slivers. Cut the onion into
1/2" thick wedges.
Cut the celery on the diagonal into 1/2" slices.  In a small bowl,
stir together the broth, black pepper and the remaining 2 ts.
cornstarch and set aside. In a large skillet or wok, warm 1 tb of the
oil over med. high heat. When the oil is very hot, but not smoking,
add the beef and the marinade and stir-fry until the beef is browned,
but still slightly pink in the center, 2 to 3 minutes.  Transfer the
beef to a plate and set aside. Add the remaining 1 tb. of oil to the
skillet. Add the pepper, onion, celery and ginger, and stir-fry until
the onions begin to wilt, 2 to 3 minutes. Return the beef to the
skillet.  Stir the broth mixture, add it to the skillet and bring the
liquid to a boil. Cook, stirring constantly, until the vegetables are
crisp-tender and the beef is cooked through 2 to 3 minutes longer.
Serve hot with steamed rice. Do-Ahead Time savers: All of the
vegetables can be prepared ahead of time and refrigerated, covered
until ready to cook. The broth mixture can be made well ahead and the
beef can be mixed with its marinade several hours ahead...in fact, I
think it is better when marinated for a time before the actual
cooking. Calories: 348 Protein: 23 gm Fat: 25 gm Carbo: 7 gm
Cholesterol: 59 gm Sodium: 653 gm. When I cook, I have made it a
habit to gather the ingredients, measure them and set them aside,
ready for the time when they are needed. You will find that this is
one of the secrets of preparing good Oriental dishes, as they usually
contain many ingredients, lots of chopping, and are cooked rather
quickly. Barb

