Title: FOURBY CHILI (BLACK BEANS BEER & BROCCOLI)
Categories: Vegetarian
Yield: 1 Servings
2 c  Dried black beans
2    Bottles stout (Guiness Extra
Or Watney's Cream), or San
Miguel Dark beer.
2 cn Diced tomatoes (or fresh
Equivalent)
2    6-ounce cans tomato paste
2    Long (mild) chili peppers,
Seeded and diced*
3 md Jalapeno chili peppers,
Seeded and diced*
3    Serrano chili peppers,
Seeded and diced*
5    Cloves garlic, minced
1    Onion, chopped
1 c  Whole kernel corn (frozen or
Fresh)
2 tb White vinegar
2 tb Chili powder
1 ts Cumin
1 tb Oregano
1/2 ts Black pepper
1 ts Crushed red peppers*
1/4 c  Peanut butter (no, really!)
1 ts Salt
1 tb Olive oil
2    Heads broccoli
* or more, to taste Rinse the black beans, pick out any pebbles; then
cover with water and let soak overnight. Then pour off the soaking
water, add 1 bottle of stout, and add fresh water to cover the beans
plus about 1". Bring to a boil, then reduce to a simmer. Cover
partway (it will boil over if fully covered) and let cook for 1 1/2
hours, stirring occasionally. Add water if neccessary.

Heat olive oil in a pan over medium heat.  Add the garlic, onions,
and all chili peppers.  Saute a few minutes until soft, then add to
the beans. Add the vinegar and spices and the diced tomatoes; simmer
for another half hour, stirring.  As the liquid from the tomatoes
boils off, start adding stout from the second bottle. About half of
this bottle is reserved for the cook.

Add the corn and the peanut butter, simmer for another hour or so,
keeping it moist enough (with stout and/or water) so that it doesn't
crust over. Stir occassionally.

Best if you let it sit overnight, and reheat it for dinner the next
day.

To serve: cut the florets off of the broccoli, and steam until done
(but crisp).  I ususally do this in the microwave. Serve the chili
with a sprinkle of chopped onions and grated cheddar cheese on top
(for vegan, omit cheese or use tofu cheese).  The broccoli can either
be stirred in at the last minute, pressed on top of the chili for
nice presentation, or placed along side it. Serve with spanish rice
(follows) and with warmed corn tortillas!

From: narad@nudibranch.asd.sgi.com (Chuck Narad). rfvc Digest V94
Issue #168 Aug. 12, 1994. Formatted by Sue Smith, S.Smith34,
TXFT40A@Prodigy.com using MMCONV.

