Title: Introduction
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 servings
No Ingredients
Variety is said to be the spice of life and, whereas for many millions of
people throughout the world, life has been a variety of spices for
centuries, it's only thanks to early explorers, who returned home with
shiploads of exotic spices, that Western culinary art was transformed.

THE BOOK OF HOT & SPICY FOODS has a collection of over 100 beautifully
illustrated step-by-step recipes which include traditional favorites like
Steak au Poivre, Mexican Chili con Carne, Indonesian Gado Gado and Creole
Jambalaya, plus many Indian and Oriental dishes and lots of sizzling new
surprises and variations on a theme. Whether it's a simple snack, a teatime
treat or an elegant dinner party dish you're after, this book has a recipe
for all occasions.

Spices are invaluable for adding that special blend of heat or fragrance
and pungency to all manner of savory and sweet dishes. Don't be daunted by
those unfamiliar to you - try them, you'll never know what you've been
missing, but bear in mind that some are stronger and fierier than others.
If experimenting, it is wise to start with small amounts - you can always
add more to taste at a later stage. And remember - the amount of spices in
many of the following recipes are suggested as a guide, so feel free to
increase or decrease the amounts according to personal preference.

It is the chili (in its various forms) that adds heat to a dish. You will
find instructions on how to prepare this fiery spice (without getting
burnt!), plus many recipes using it. There is also plenty of information on
all the other hot spices - muctard, pepper, cloves and ginger - plus, of
course, the more fragrant, aeromatic ones like cardamom, cumin, nutmeg,
etc. And no spice book would be complete without recipes for making Curry
Powder, Garam Masala, Five Spice Powder, Mixed Spice, Pickling Spice and
Harissa (a Middle Eastern favorite).

The follwing recipes range from mild to hot or just wonderfully spicy. It
is surely a collection to please not only hot and spicy food-lovers
everywhere, but also tempting enough to persuade the "uninitiated" to
sample the delights of spicy foods!

