Title: Raspberry Souffle
Categories: Desserts, Fruits
Yield: 6 servings
2 tb Chambord or framboise
5 lg Egg whites, at room
-temperature
1/4 ts Cream of tartar
-salt, pinch
-confectioner's sugar
1 1/3 c  Raspberries, fresh or
-frozen
5 tb Sugar plus extra for
-souffle dish(es)
1 1/2 ts Orange zest
2 tb Cornstarch
2 1/2 tb Lemon juice, fresh
DIRECTIONS  ------------------------------------------------------------
In a small saucepan, combine 1 cup raspberries, 2 tablespoons sugar
and grated orange zest. Bring to a boil over medium heat, stirring and
mashing the raspberries. Dissolve cornstarch in lemon juice and add to
raspberry mixture. Cook, stirring, for about 45 seconds, or until
thickened and no longer cloudy. Remove from the heat and stir in
chambord or framboise and the remaining 1/3 cup raspberries. Cool to
room temperature. ( The recipe can be prepared ahead to this point.
Cover and refrigerate for up to 2 days. Bring to room temperature
before proceeding. )
Position rack in the lower third of the oven and preheat oven to
350 degrees. Lightly coat the inside(s) of a 1 1/2-quart souffle dish
or six 1 1/2-cup individual souffle dishes with vegetable oil or
nonstick cooking spray. Sprinkle with sugar and shake out excess.
In a large, grease-free mixing bowl, beat egg whites with an
electric mixer on medium speed until foamy and opaque. Add cream of
tartar and salt; gradually increase speed to high and beat until soft
peaks form. Gradually add remaining 3 tablespoons sugar and beat until
stiff ( but not dry ) peaks form.
Stir raspberry mixture well. Whisk about one-quarter of the beaten
egg whites into the raspberry mixture to lighten it. Using a rubber
spatula, fold the raspberry mixture back into the remaining whites.
Turn into prepared dish(es) and smooth top(s) with spatula. Place
dish(es) in a roasting pan. Fill pan with hot water to come one-third
of the way up side of the dish(es). Bake until puffed and top is firm
to the touch, about 25 minutes for individual souffles and about 35
minutes for a large souffle. Dust with confectioner's sugar and serve
immediately. Serve 6.
Source: Ahn Dao

Converted by MMCONV vers. 1.20

