Title: CHOCOLATE-CINNAMON TORTE WITH MOCHA FUDGE GLA
Categories: Bakery, Cakes, Desserts, Vegetarian
Yield: 16 Servings
MMMMM----------------------------CAKE---------------------------------
8 oz Tofu
2 c  Granular sweetener
-- (such as Sucanat)
3/4 c  Oil
1 c  Water
1 tb Vanilla extract
2 c  All-purpose flour
3/4 c  Cocoa powder
2 ts Ground cinnamon
1 ts Baking soda
1 ts Cream of tartar
MMMMM---------------------MOCHA FUDGE GLAZE--------------------------
1/4 c  Margarine or oil
1/4 c  Cocoa powder
3 tb Water
1 ts Instant espresso powder
1 1/2 c  Granular sweetener
1 ts Vanilla extract
Ground cinnamon for garnish
For CAKE: Preheat oven to 350 F.  Oil a 10- or 12-inch springform
pan; dust lightly with a bit of cocoa powder.

Using electric mixer, blend tofu with sweetener on low speed until
mixture is paste-like.  Increase speed and beat until tofu is
thoroughly blended and mixture is shiny and the consistency of thick
syrup. (Don't worry about undissolved granules of sweetener which may
remain; they will dissolve later on when the liquids are added.)

Add oil, water and vanilla to tofu mixture, beating until thoroughly
combined.  Sift together flour, cinnamon, baking soda, cream of
tartar, and cocoa powder. Blend sifted dry ingredients into liquid
mixture. Pour batter into prepared pan and bake until tester inserted
in center comes out clean, about 40-50 minutes. Transfer to rack and
cool completely.

GLAZE: In a small saucepan, combine all ingredients. Cook and stir
over medium heat until mixture is shiny and completely smooth. Let
mixture come to a boil, then immediately remove from heat. Let cool
10 minutes. Stir vigorously before using.

To assemble cake:  Remove sides from pan.  If necessary, slice off
top of cake to make surface even, then invert cake on rack set over a
pan to catch drips of excess glaze. Remove pan bottom from cake. Pour
glaze evenly over top of cake, allowing some to drip down sides also.
Use a knife or spatula to spread glaze around sides. Transfer to
serving platter. Decorate by sprinkling additional ground cinnamon
over cake, using stencils to create shapes or a pattern if desired.

Variation: A mixture of chopped toasted nuts and ground cinnamon may
be pressed onto sides of freshly glazed cake instead of sprinkling
plain cinnamon over top.

Copyright 1995 Karen Mintzias Non-commercial distribution permitted
with attribution to source.

