Title: CHOCOLATE-MINT COOKIE SANDWICHES
Categories: Cookies
Yield: 36 Servings
3 c  All-purpose flour
1/4 ts Salt
1/4 ts Baking powder
3/4 c  Butter, softened
1 c  Sugar
1 ts Vanilla extract
1    Egg
3 oz Unsweetened baking
-chocolate, melted and
-cooled
Mint Cream Filling
3 c  Powdered sugar
2/3 c  Butter, softened
1/2 ts Peppermint extract
3 tb Half and half, up to 5 T
Chocolate Glaze
6 oz Semisweet chocolate,
-coarsely chopped
2 tb Vegetable oil
1. To prepare cookies: In a medium bowl, combine flour, baking powder
and salt; set aside. In mixing bowl, beat butter, sugar and vanilla
until light and fluffy. Add egg, then chocolate, beating well after
each addition. Stir in flour mixture 1/2 cup at a time, blending well
after each addition. Divide dough in half. Form each half into a log
9 inches long and about 2 inches in diameter. Wrap in plastic and
freeze or refrigerate until firm, 1 to 4 hours. 2. Preheat oven to
350. Grease baking sheets. Cut chilled dough into 1/4 inch slices.
Arrange, 1 inch apart on baking sheets. Use a cookie stamp to imprint
the tops of half of the rounds. 3. Bake 8-11 minutes, or until
cookies just begin to brown on the bottom. Cool on racks. While
cookies are baking, prepare the filling. In a small mixing bowl,
combine powdered sugar , butter, mint extract and 2 1/2 T half&half.
Beat at low speed until smooth, adding more half&half if necessary.
Mixture should be thick and creamy smooth. 4. Spread a 1/8 to 1/4
inch layer of mint filling over the bottoms of the plain cookie
rounds. Top with imprinted rounds to create sandwiches; press down
lightly. Refrigerate until filling is firm, about 20 minutes. 5. To
prepare glaze. In a small saucepan, combine chocolate and oil. Warm
over low heat, stirring occasionally, until mixture is smooth. Pour
chocolate into a small deep bowl or 1-cup glass measure. Line a large
baking sheet with waxed paper. Dip half of each cookie sandwich into
melted chocolate, shaking off excess. Arrange sandwiches on waxed
paper and refrigerate until chocolate is set. Store in an airtight
container at room temperature 1 week; freeze for longer storage.
Posted to MC-Recipe Digest V1 #1

Recipe by: The Joy of Cookies, pp. 156-7

From: Sue <suechef@sover.net>

Date: Wed, 4 Dec 1996 18:48:36 -0500 (EST)

