Title: CHOW MEIN (TWO SIDES BROWN NOODLES)
Categories: Chinese, Beef, Ceideburg 2
Yield: 1 Batch
10 sm Black dried mushrooms
1/2 lb Fresh Chinese egg noodles
-(regular mein)
Sesame oil
1/2 lb Sea scallops
Cornstarch
1/2 lb Flank steak
2 ts Dark soy sauce
1/2 c  Bamboo shoots, sliced
1 lb Bok choy, cut in 1 1/2-inch
-lengths
2    Eggs
2 1/4 c  Fresh chicken stock
2 tb Light soy sauce
Salt
1/2 ts Sugar
Peanut oil
1 tb Or more dry sherry or
-Shaoxing rice wine
Here's a recipe for Chow Mein which is a pretty classic application
using pan fried noodles.

Put the mushrooms in a small bowl and pour boiling water over them.
Let soak for 30 minutes.

Meanwhile, cook the noodles in a large quantity of boiling water for
3 1/2 to 5 minutes.  Drain, rinse under cold water, drain again, toss
with a little sesame oil and set aside.

Cut The scallops in half, toss with a little sesame oil and 1 1/2
teaspoons of cornstarch; refrigerate. Cut the flank steak as thinly
as possible across the grain. Toss with 1 1/2 teaspoons cornstarch,
in a little sesame oil and the dark soy sauce; set aside. When the
mushrooms have soaked, squeeze them out over the soaking liquid, and
reserve 1/4 cup of the liquid. Cut off the mushroom stems and
discard; cut the caps in two and set aside with the bamboo shoots and
bok choy.

Lightly beat the eggs with a few drops of sesame oil. Heat a small
frying pan and oil the bottom lightly. Pour in enough of the beaten
egg to cover the bottom, pouring any excess back into the uncooked
eggs. Cook just until set and remove.  Repeat until all the egg is
used up. Stack the egg crepes, roll them up and slice across the roll
into shreds. Set aside.

Mix the chicken stock with the light soy sauce, 1 1/2 teaspoons salt
and the sugar; set aside.  Heat this mixture in a small pot over low
heat.

Meanwhile, heat a wok over medium high heat until hot. Add 1 cup
peanut oil and heat until the oil is very hot. Lower the noodles into
the oil to form a nest and let them cook until brown on one side.
(This may take 8 minutes or so.) Turn the noodles over and brown on
the other side. (This will be much faster.) Remove to a large serving
platter and keep warm.

Cook the scallops very briefly in the same oil, remove and drain in a
colander.  Turn the heat off under the oil and add the beef. Stir just
until the meat slices are separated and start to change color. Remove
to drain with the scallops.

Pour off all the oil but 1/4 cup and heat.  Add the vegetables and
stir-fry for 2 to 3 minutes.  Add the seasoned stock and bring to a
boil. Mix the reserved mushroom soaking liquid with 2 tablespoons of
cornstarch until dissolved and stir into the chicken stock sauce.
Stir until it thickens and clears slightly. Add the beef and
scallops, then the wine and cook just until heated through.  Pour
over the noodles and serve garnished with the egg shreds.

Posted by Stephen Ceideburg December 18 1990.

