Title: CHRISTMAS COOKIE BONANZA PART 2
Categories: Cookies, Snacks, Christmas
Yield: 4 Servings
1    Recipe Basic Cookie Mix
1 lg Egg
1 ts Vanilla extract
2 tb Unsweetened cocoa powder
CHECKERBOARD SQUARES

melted chocolate or chocolate icing and white icing

In large bowl of electric mixer, combine cookie mix, egg and vanilla.
At low speed, beat until mixture forms a dough. Divide dough in half;
remove one half from bowl. To dough in bowl, add cocoa powder; knead
to mix well.

On work surface, on separate sheets of waxed paper, roll each half of
dough to 9x6" rectangle.  Using paper to lift dough, invert plain
dough onto top of chocolate dough. Remove paper from plain dough.
Using long chef's knife, cut doughs lentghwise into 2" wide strips.
Stack strips, removing waxed paper and alternating colors. Cut stack
lengthwise into three equal strips. Stack strips so colors alternate;
gently press stack so dough layers stick together. Wrap stack in
plastic wrap; refrigerate 2 hours.

Preheat oven to 375F.  Lightly grease 2 baking sheets.

Remove plastic wrap from dough; cut stack crosswise into 1/4" slices.
Place slices checkerboard side down on prepared baking sheets; bake 8
min or until golden. Transfer to wire rack to cool. With pastry bag
and writing, decorate cookies with dots of chocolate and icing.

Makes 4 dozen cookies.

GINGERBREAD PEOPLE

1 recipe basic cookie mix 1/3 c molasses 1/2 tsp baking soda 1/2 tsp
ground cinnamon 1/2 tsp ground cloves 1/2 tsp ground ginger 1/2 tsp
grated nutmeg white icing red cinnamon candies

Preheat oven to 350F.  Lightly grease 2 baking sheets.

In large bowl of electric mixer, combine cookie ingredients; at low
speed, beat until mixture forms a dough.

Divide dough into thirds.  Working with one third at a time, on
lightly floured surface, roll out dough 1/8" thick; cut out with 3"
cookie cutter. Transfer to prepared baking sheets. Bake 8 min or
until just beginning to brown.  Transfer to wire rack to cool.
Decorate with icing and candies.

Makes 3 dozen cookies.

Posted by Theresa Merkling.

