Title: CINCINNATI CHILI (STERN)
Categories: Beef, Chili, Main dish, Chocolate
Yield: 4 Servings
1 lb Beef, Ground Chuck, Run
Twice Through Grin
2 md Onion -- chopped fine
2    Cloves Garlic -- chopped
Fine
1 c  Tomato Sauce
2 tb Ketchup
1 c  Water
1 tb Red Wine Vinegar
1 tb Chili Powder
1 tb Paprika
1 ts Black Pepper
1 ts Honey
1/2 oz Unsweetened Chocolate
1/2 ts Cumin
1/2 ts Turmeric
1/2 ts Marjoram
1/2 ts Allspice
1/4 ts Nutmeg
1/2 ts Cinnamon
1/4 ts Cloves -- ground
1/4 ts Mace
1/4 ts Coriander
1/4 ts Cardamom
1/2    Bay Leaf
1 ts Salt
Salt a large cast-iron skillet. Turn heat to medium and add meat,
onions, and garlic. Cook until all meat is browned. Add tomato sauce,
ketchup, water, and vinegar. As mixture begins to boil, add
everything else. Adjust spices to taste, adding more salt if it needs
perking up, turmeric and cumin for a sweatier chili flavor, cinnamon,
cloves, and mace for more bang, unsweetened chocolate for body. Cover
and simmer at very low heat for about 1 hour, stirring and tasting
occasionally, adding tomato juice if it is getting too dry to ladle
up easily

Cincinnati Chili, Construction

8 oz Spaghetti
16 oz Kidney Beans 2 Onions
1 lb Cheddar Cheese 1 Box Crackers Premium Bits

The bottom layer is always spaghetti. Break into 4-inch pieces. and
boil in salted water to which 2 tablespoons of olive oil were added.
For a touch of swank, melt a stick of sweet butter into the
just-cooked noodles before you dish them out.

You will need about 2 to 3 ounces per serving. You want them soft
enough to cut easily with a fork, but not so soft they lose their
oomph. Remember, they are the support layer for four other
ingredients. Spread them out to cover the bottom of a small plate
(preferably oval).

Next comes the chili. Ladle on enough to cover the noodles. Wash
kidney beans and heat with 2 cups water, then drain. Don't season or
do anything fancy. They're here more for texture than taste. Spoon a
sparse layer atop the chili.

Spread out some onions, to taste, over the beans.

Quickly, so it melts a bit, spread the grated cheese to cover
everything everything. Don't skimp. Cheese should completely blanket
the plate, enough so that you can pat it into a neat mound with your
hands, just the way they do in Cincinnati.

Serve with small oyster crackers (if you can find them) or the Ritz
bits on the side.

You may, if desired, omit either the beans or the onions, or both, for
Three-Way or Four-Way Chili.

Note: They recommend using a thick spaghetti, or perciatelli, if you
can find it.

>From Square Meals, by Michael and Jane Stern

[Cindy Tarsi, 24-Jun-91, Origin: MicroWorld BBS - Cedar Park, Texas]

From jerrye@wizard.com Thu Aug 22 15:42:34 1996 Recipe By
:

