Title: CLAY POT CHICKEN & VEGETABLES IN HERBS & WINE
Categories: Chicken
Yield: 6 Servings
10    Cloves Garlic
3    Sprigs Thyme
3    Sprigs Rosemary
1    Whole Chicken -- 5-6 Pounds
1 1/2 c  Dry Red Wine
3 sl Bacon -- Diced
1 ts Salt
1 ts Pepper
1 lb Red Potatoes -- Small And
Halved
12 oz Baby Carrots -- 2 Cups
8 oz Celery Root -- 1 Inch
Chunks
8 oz Boiling Onions -- Small
1 tb Margarine -- Melted
8 oz Mushrooms -- 2 Cups
1 tb Cornstarch
Place 3 cloves garlic, thyme and rosemary in cavity of the chicken.
Truss chicken and place in ziplock bag.  Pour in wine and refrigerate
overnight, turning occasionally.

Soak top and bottom of pot in cold water for 30 minutes.

Meanwhile, over medium heat cook bacon until brown and crisp.  Drain
on paper towels, reserve drippings.

Drain pot.  Remove chicken from bag and place breast side up in pot.
Add wine, bacon pieces, and sprinkle chicken with half of salt and
pepper. Cover with top, place on bottom shelf in cold oven. Set
temperature at 450 degrees for 1 1/2 hours.

About 30 minutes before chicken is done, in a shallow baking pan toss
potatoes, carrots, celery root, onions, and remaining garlic with
margarine and 1 tablespoon reserved bacon drippings and remaining
salt and pepper. Place on upper shelf in oven, cook 20 minutes,
stirring occasionally. Add

mushrooms, cook 5 more minutes, until tender and lightly brown.

When chicken is done, remove from oven.  Remove chicken to platter;
pour cooking liquids into sauce pan, skimming off the fat.  Spoon
vegetables into clay pot, place chicken back on top. Return to oven
without cover. Cook 10 to 12 minutes, until skin is brown and crisp.

Meanwhile, stir cornstarch into cooking liquids; bring to a boil over
medium-high heat.  Reduce heat to medium-low; cook about 3 minutes,
stirring occasionally, until slightly thickened.

Serve chicken and vegetables in clay pot with sauce on the side.

: Teresa
Recipe By

Date: 23 Mar 97 Mastercook
From: Steinertt@aol.Com
Recipes (Mailing List)  C4

