Title: ARE YOU OVERWEIGHT OR OVERFAT?
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 text file
MMMMM-----------------------NO INGREDIENTS----------------------------
Did you know that we are from a society that worships the scale? Have
the numbers on the scale ever determined your mood for the day? If
you said "yes" to both of these questions, chances are you are in the
majority. For so many years we have been concerned with how much we
weigh. It hasn't mattered that much what kind of shape our bodies
were in; as llong as the numbers were low, we believed ourselves to
be thin and healthy. Did you know that the scales are now becoming
obsolete? The reason is because your weight doesn't necessarily say
how fat you are or the state of your physical condition. The real
important issue here is your percentage of body fat. This is the
ratio of in your body to everything else you carry. This would
include your muscle, bones, water, etc. In all reality, your
percentage of body fat compared to lean muscle mass should be 15% for
a man and 22% for a woman. The average American male is over 25% fat
and the female over 30% fat. Most of us are carrying around much more
fat than we even realize. In all reality, very thin looking people
can have a lot of fat under their skin or even marbled through muscle
tissue. You can be confused by the scale and think you are thin
because you don't weigh a lot but actually be overfat.

Another time the scale can fool us is when we start working out
aerobically as we follow a low-fat diet and gain a few punds on the
scale. This happens because we are building lean muscle mass. Muscle
weighs more than fat, so as we replace the fat in our bodies with
muscle, our weight might fo up a ffew pounds at first, but don't let
this discourage you. It is only temporary and before long you wil
start to lose the real fat.

The only way to know for sure how much body fat you actually have in
your body is to have it measured. There are a number of ways to have
this done. The two most popular are hydrostatic weighing and skin
fold calibration. Hydrostatic or underwater weighing follows the idea
that fat floats. It is considered to be the most accurate way to
measure body fat. Since muscle, bone and other tissue are more dense
than body fat, the more lean muscle you carry, the more you will
weigh when submerged in water. The most common test to measure body
fat is the skin fold caliper test. This tool gently pinches the skin
at different sites on the body. The results are then computed to
determine your percentage of body fat. Find out if you are overfat by
having your body measured for lean tissue and body fat. It is the
best indication gor determining the exercise and diet progran you
need to follow in the future.

Butter Busters by Pam Mycoskie ISBN 0-446-67040-5 entered by Carolyn
Shaw 2-95
Submitted By CAROLYN SHAW   On   02-15-95

