Title: Butter Busters Shopping Tips 2/3 ^
Categories: Information, Pickles
Yield: 1 text file
MMMMM-----------------------NO INGREDIENTS----------------------------
FAT GRAMS PER 4 OUNCE
TYPE OF BEEF
SERVLING

36.8 Ribeye
Beef Brisket (braised)
Steak 23.4 Rib Roast 36.8 Ground Beef (cooked) 24.6 Healthy Choice
Ground Beef 4.0 Flank Steak (braised, lean and trimmed of fat) 15.7
20.9 T-Bone
Sirloin Steak (broiled)
Steak (broiled) 27.9

VENISON-A GOOD CHOICE A great substitution
for beef is Venison (deer meat). One pound of ground venison is a
mere 11 fat grams. It tastes and looks more like ground beef than
turkey. Therefore, your children might enjoy it more.

TURKEY

FAT GRAMS PER 4 OUNCE
WHITE OR DARK
SERVING

less than one
4.0
White meat turkey w/o skin
Butterball white w/o skin
Butterball dark w/o skin 4.4 Ground turkey (93% fat free) 7 Ground
white meat w/o skin 1.2

As you can see, turkey is much lower in saturated fat than beef.
However, choosing white meat over dark meat would be a wise choice.
You should also try to stick to plain turkey tather than the
Butterball variety unless you choose the Butterball fresh turkey,
which cotains no added basting. Notice that one pound of comercially
packaged turkey os 28 fat grams. Instead, consider having your
butcher grind white meat turkey without skin for you at the grocery
store. One pound of fresh ground white meat turkey is a mere 4.8
grams a pound providing the skin is removed before it is ground.

CHICKEN

FAT GRAMS PER 4 OUNCE SERVING
2.4 Thigh w/
5.6 Breast half roasted
7.6
HOW PREPARED
Drumstick w/o skin, roasted
skin, roasted
w/o skin 3.1 Breast half roasted with skin

Chicken can be a very food choice on a low far diet. However, the
value of chicken as a low fat choice can easily be erased when
prepared the wrong way.

FRIED CHICKEN HOW PREPARED FAT GRAMS PER 4
OUNCE SERVING

8.8 Breast half
18.4 Breast half prepared
24.0
Breast half fried w/ skin, flour coated
fried w/ skin, batter dip
at a FF rest.

Please remove skin when cooking chicken. Roasting, baking, dry
grilling, broiling or steaming chicken wil save you many fat grams.
This is another time that it would be beneficial to have your white
meat chicken ground without skin by the butcher at the grocery store.
One pound of commercially ground chicken is 64.3 fat grams per pound.
One pound of fresh skinless white meat chicken is a mere 18.4 fat
grams a pound.

FISH

FAT GRAMS PER 4 OUNCE
KIND OF FISH
SERVING

Cod, dolphin, haddock, lobster pollock and scallops less than one
Flounder, grouper, pike snapper and sole 1.3 Monkfish, ocean perch,
rockfish and shrimp
1.7 Orange roughy 8.0
Butterfish, Pacific Mackerel 8.9 Sockeye Salmon 9.7 Atlantic herring
10.3 Chinook Salmon 12 Atlantic mackerel, Pacific herring 15.5
Sablefish 17.3

We know that fish is considered to be a low fat food. However, you
can see by this chart that some fish can be higher than others when
it comes to counting fat grams. Of imporatnce to those with
cholesterol problems, much of the far gram content comes from a more
healthy polyunsaturated fat rather than the saturated fat s found in
red meats. Fish is also rich in the oega-3 polyunsaturated fat that
has been shown to help lower the LDL (bad) cholesterol levels in the
blood and are especially potent in lowering blood triglycerides (fat)
levels. If high blood triglceride levels are your problem, eating
plenty of fresh fish may be your salvation.

Please see Part 3

Butter Busters by Pam Mycoskie ISBN 0-466-67040-5 Entered by Carolyn
Shaw 2-95
Submitted By CAROLYN SHAW   On   02-15-95

