Title: Butter Busters Cholesterol Information 1/3 ^
Categories: Information, Pickles
Yield: 1 text file
MMMMM-----------------------NO INGREDIENTS----------------------------
Cholesterol and triglycerides (fat) travel around the body attatched
to proteins called lipoproteins. There are several types of
lipoproteins. The "good" cholesterol is called HDL-cholesterol (high
density Lipoprotein) and the "bad" is called LDL-cholesterol (low
density lipoprotein). Some LDL-cholesterol (bad) actually provides
many good and necessary function in our bodies. It is when excessive
levels of LDL-cholesterol occur that a build-up and subsequent
blockage of our vessels appear. HDL-cholesterol, on the other hand,
can remove cholesterol build up from a blood vessel and transfer it
back to the liver where it can be broken down and eliminated from the
body. Your blood cholesterol can be improved by altering your diet.
The cholesterol in the foods you eat is not the biggest problem. The
most signifigant problem seems to be in the fat in our diets. In
fact, dietary saturated fats will raise our blood cholesterol levels
more than cholesterol in our diets. The saturated fats, found in
foods such as meats and whole dairy products, tend to be the major
culprits. Other major sources of trouble (saturated fats) come from
baked and prepared foods that contain palm oil, palm kernal oil,
cocoa butter, hydrogenated vegetable oil and coconut oil. the more
saturated fats you eat, the more LDL-cholesterol the body produces.
The more LDL-cholesterol you have in your body, the bigger your risk
for the developement of coronary heart disease.

WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW ABOUT YOUR HEART: The heart is like a pump.
Oxygen and nutrients required for heart muscle function travel
through the coronary arteries to reach the heart muscle. When the
coronary arteries become blocked by cholesterol deposits (plaque) you
develop atherosclerosis (hardening of the arteries). When a coronary
aretery becomes 75% or more blocked by plaque build-up, a heart
attack can occur. A heart attack causes death of the heart muscle
that is normally supplied by the blocked coronary artery. Cholesterol
and triglycerides (fat) are contained in the various lipoproteins lin
the blood. Your total blood cholesterol is comprised of good
cholesterol (HDL), bad cholesterol (LDL), and other lipoproteins that
predominately carry triglycerides. Total cholesterol is calculated as
follows: Total=HDL+LDL+ (triglycerides/5). The good cholesterol, or
HDL, helps to lower the the risk of heart disease. You can raise your
HDL levels by losing weight, exercising regularly and quitting
smoking. Women who take estrogens have higher HDL levels. A good HDL
level for a man is 45 or higher. A good HDL level for a premenopausal
woman would be 55 or greater. the higher the level, the better. LDL,
or what is referred to as bad cholesterol, will raise your risk of
heart disease if your levels are high. You can lower your LDL levels
by eating less saturated fat and foods containing cholesterol. By
doing this, you wil be lowering your risk of coronary heart disease.
Ideally, you want your LDL under 130 (or less if you already suffer
from heart disease).

WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW ABOUT BLOOD CHOLESTEROL: You are at a greater
risk of developing coronary heart disease if your total blood
cholesterol level is high. The risk increases progressively as your
level rises above 200. Blood cholesterol levels are in part the
result of the foods you eat, the they are also determined by genetic
factors. Most people can reduce their blood cholesterol levels by as
much as 2-25% by diet alone. For every 1% reduction in your total
blood cholesteroll level, there is a 2% reduction in your risk for
heart disease. In other words, if you lower your cholesterol from 250
to just under 200 (a drop of 25%), you would cut your risk of heart
disease in HALF!!! By reducing your total blood cholesterol, you
lower your risk of coronary heart disease and possibly a fatal heart
attack or stroke.

WHAT IS A HEALTHY RATIO? It is true that your risk factors usually
rise as your cholesteroll number increases. However, some people with
a level over 200 are in serious trouble, and some people are not. The
best way to tell if you have a potential problem is to know your HDL,
or good, cholesterol level as well. People with high HDL levels can
tolerate values of total cholesterol more than 200. This is
determined by the RATIO of total cholesterol and HDL cholesterol. To
figure out your ratio, divide the big number (total cholesterol), by
the little number (HDL cholesterol). For example, if your total
cholesterol is 200 and your HDL is 50, your ratio would be 4, or
200/5=4, which is very good. But if your total cholesterol is 210 and
your HDL is 30, your ratio is 210/30=7, which is bad. Using the same
method, if your total cholesterol is 150 and your HDL is 43, your
ratio is 3.5 which is very good. You need to keep your ratio under
4.0. Most people can accomplish this goal by cutting down on
saturated fats and cholesterol products in their diet. Remember, diet
has little to do with raising your HDL level. The best way to raise
your HDL is through aerobic exercise. In order to determine of your
cholesterol is over 200, check the HDL cholesterol on your blood and
calculate your ratio. Very low levels (<35) can increase your risk of
heart disease. Very high levels of triglycerides (over 250) may
invoke a risk to your health. Those who are unable to attain ideal
levels of their cholesterol and triglycerides should check with their
physicians. Medication might be ultimately be required to reach
healthier levels.

BY LOWERING YOUR CHOLESTEROL AND INCREASING YOUR HDL, YOU CAN IMPROVE
THE RATIO AND YOUR HEALTH!

Please see Part 2

Butter Busters by Pam Mycoskie ISBN 0-446-67040-5 Entered by Carolyn
Shaw 2-95
Submitted By CAROLYN SHAW   On   02-15-95

