Title: Butter Busters Shopping Tips 1/3 ^
Categories: Information, Pickles
Yield: 1 text file
MMMMM-----------------------NO INGREDIENTS----------------------------
SHOPPING TIPS TO HELP YOU SAVE TIME, MONEY AND FAT GRAMS
:

Did you know that eating a lowfat diet can not only help you lose
weight but also help you save money? This is one time you lose and
save at the same time. A diet low in fat, low in sugar and high in
fiber is less expensive than the normal high fat diet. Chicken and
turkey cost much less than red meat (in most cases). Fresh fruits and
vegetables are less expensive than frozen prepared side dishes.
Homemade, lowfat desserts, cakes, and cookies are less expensive to
make than store bought bakery items. Even raisins are less expensive
than chocolate chips. Lowfat cheeses are generally cheaper than the
gourmet cheeses. Many substitutions are cheaper than high fat food
choices. Plain yogurt and nonfat cottage cheese are less expensive
than sour cream. A few low fat items, such as butter buds or Egg
beaters might cost a little more, but the fat grams you save are well
worth the investment. One good tip to help you save mone and llose
fat is to shop the perimeter of the store. Did you know that grocery
stores are laid out in a fashion to promote the purchase of the more
profitable packaged foods stocked in the middle aisles? In addition
to costing more, the higher processed, higher fat, more presertives,
and less fibre foods are stocked in the center of the store. Next
time you visit a grocery store, look for yourself. You will find this
true in most stores. Wheel your cart around the outside aisles, and
you will not only save money but will lose weight because of your
smart low fat choices. You might need to make an occasional trip to
the interior to stock up on pasta and whole grain cereals. Try to
shop after a meal, rather than before, when you are so hungry that
you make unwise choices. Try to go with a list and stick to it. (This
can be made next to impossible if you are accompanied by your husband
or children). If you have planned your menus and meals before you go,
you might not be as tempted to overbuy unnecessary items. Put
yourself on a budget and try to stick to it. Sometimes we have to
spend a little more tine to read those labels. In this case, time
spent will account for fat lost, so it will be worth it. Make friends
with the people who work in the grocery store. Let them know you are
intereseted in new low fat items. Let them do the foot work for you.
They are usually more than happy to inform you of any new items. The
grocery stores want you back, so any way they can help you will be
business for them and time saved for you.

Visiting the grocery store cann be a game that involves the whole
family. Even children can learn to read labels, and think what
healthy eating habits you will be teaching them along the way.
Children like nothing more than to mimic their parents, especially
when they see how much it pleases them. Children are never too young
to learn how important a healthful eating lifestyle can be. You will
be doing them a favor they will thank you for later!

LEARN TO BE A DETECTIVE AT THE GROCERY STORE:

Watch out for advertising claims at the supermarket. Lite, lean, slim
or lower fat may be only claims. Lite may refer to color, amount of
sodium, fat content, or serving size. An example would be lite cream
cheese. Regular cream cheese has 10 fat grams per ounce. Lite cream
cheese has 7. If you have an 8 ounce oackage of lite cream cheese,
you still have 56 fat grams. I would hardly consider that lite. In
this case, I would choose one of the new fat free cream cheeses on
the market. This would be a wise choice. A misconception conerning
fat would be whole milk. Milk claims to be only 4% fat. That sounds
pretty good, right? Whole milk is 4% fat; that is 4% of the total
weight of the milk is fat. Milk is mostly water, so the percentage
contributed by fat to the total weight is small. What you must
realize is that whole milk derives 50% of its calories from fat (73
fat calories divided by 150 total calories per cup). The whole milk
ads should say 50% fat. Something else you need to watch out for are
those 91% fat free luncheon meats. Perhaps yo have a package of
chopped turkey that claims to be 91% fat free by weight. That is the
important part-weight. The 9% fat refers to the fat content as a
percentage of the weight. If we were concerned with percentages, we
would want to know what percentage of the total calories, not the
weight, come from fat. Let me show you what I mean. the chopped
turkey might contain 3 grams of fat (3x9=27) or 27 fat calories per
slice out of its total 45 calories. Therefore, the fat calories are
60% fat or 40% fat free. We must be concerned wih those 27 fat
calories, not total percentages. You can see this wouldn't be a very
wise choice. Plese read those labels carefully. The worst claim of
all, in my opinion, is the one on the "diet" dinners stating that
they are less than 300 calories. This may be true, bur some of those
"diet" dinners contain as much as 20-25 fat grams per dinner. There
is one in particular, and I won't mention the brand, that contains
300 total calories. It is a well known "diet" dinner. The only
problem is that 189 of those calories come from fat. I would harldy
consider a dinner that contains 21 fat grams (or 63% fat), to be
called "diet", would you?

WHERE'S THE BEEF? We hope you have trouble
finding it in your mew low fat eating plan. There are so many other
choices in palce of beef. I would like to show you some of your other
choices. Some other foods we might consider removing from, or at
least cutting down on, would be veal, lamb, pork and duck. These are
all very high in saturated fat. Actually, in some cases they can be
higher in fat than beef. There is a new ground beef on the market
called Healthy Choice. It is only 4 grams fat per pound comapred to
regular ground beef at 57-60 fat grams per pound.

Please see Part 2

Butter Busters by Pam Mycoskie ISBN 0-446-67040-5 Entered by Carolyn
Shaw 2-95
Submitted By CAROLYN SHAW   On   02-15-95

