Title: Butter Busters Tips for Modifiying Your Recipes 1 ^
Categories: Information, Pickles
Yield: 1 text file
MMMMM-----------------------NO INGREDIENTS----------------------------
Replace oil, butter and margarine with liquid butter buds, Smart Beat
Low or nonfat margarine, Weight Watcher's Extra Light Margarine,
Promise Ultra Fat Free Margarine, applesauce, or corn syrup. By using
liquid butter buds or Promise Ultra Fat Free, you not inly cut down
on the fat content but also save calories. Weight Watcher's Extra
Light margarine works well in baking but does contain more calories
than liquid Butter Buds or Promise Ultra Fat Free margarine. In some
recipes, (snickerdoodles and lowfat chocolate chip cookies), I give
you the choice of using 1/2 Promise Ultra Fat Free with 1/2 Country
Morning "Light" lowfat margarine. Even though the CM Blend contains 6
g fat a tablespoon, when used in conjunction with fat free margarine
the fat content only changes a fraction when compared to usin all low
fat Smart Beat. Applsauce is another good substitution for oil in
baked products. Applsauce contains pectin, which helps to maintain a
nice moist texture. However, if the recipes only liquid is oil, you
might wish to use 1/2 applesauce and 1/2 non fat milk to ensure
moistness. Try using corn syrup on place of oil in bkaing because it
retains a moist texture when mixed with sugar, flour and Egg Beaters.
Please remember that corn syrup is a form of sugar and will add more
calories to your baked products.

You can't always replace all the fat from a recipe. However, any low
or nonfat substitutions you make are a step in the right direction.

Let your friends and family taste your food before you tell them it
is low or nonfat. Kids are especially bad about forming opinions on
any kind of "diet" food before giving it a chance.

Substitute one low or non fat item at a time. This way if your recipe
doesn't turn out right, you will lknow where the problem is.

Replace any milk with skim milk. Replace cream with evaporated skim
milk.

Replace any cheese with low or non fat cheese. A low fat cheese would
have 5g or less per ounce. Some good choices are Pollly O Free, Kraft
Free, Borden Free, Healthy Choice Free, Sargento low, Alpine Lace and
Lifetime low and nonfat cheeses.

Substitute land o Lakes or lLight n Liveley fat free sour cream for
regular sour cream when baking. Another idea is to place a 16 oz
carton of nonfat cottage cheese, 2 tb. nonfat yogurt, and 2 tb. lemon
juice in a blender until smooth. It tastes great on baked potatoes
and will substitute in any recipe that calls for sour cream.

Replace cream cheese with Philly, Healthy Choice or Alpine Lace
fatfree CC

When a recipe calls for cream soups, simply make your own and save a
lot of fat grams. Saute 1/2 onion in liquid Butter buds. Add a 14oz
can chicken broth and a 16oz container of plain nonfat yogurt to the
onion mixture. Add 1 tb flour and 1 tb cornstarch. Cook until smooth
and bubbly. Season to taste. This makes 1qt. cream soup substitute.
You coluld add cooked or canned sliced mushrooms for a cream of
mushroom soup. Healthy Request's soups are 99% fat free low fat soups.

For pie crusts either use a graham cracker crust, made with liquid
Butter Budsor try my recipe for a pastry crust (will be posted).
Remember liquid Butter Buds can be substituted for margarine or oil.
If a recipe calls for 1/2 cup, 1 stick margarine or 1/2 cup oil, use
1/2 cup liquid Butter Buds. You can also use Promise Ultra Fat Free
margarine in place of oil in breads, cakes, pie crust and some
cookies.

You can save calories by cutting the sugar by 25% and increasing sweet
spices (cinnamon, ginger, allspice, nutmeg, vanilla and almond
extracts). You can also use Sweet n Low for 1/2 the sugar in your
recipe.

If the recipe calls for nuts, omit half or try Grape Nuts cereal.

If you must have Chocolate Chip Cookies, there really isn't a
substitute for chocolate chips. (SEE, I KNEW SOME THINGS WERE STILL
SACRED <BEG>) Try cutting the amount you use by 75%, (YEAH, RIGHT!)
and you wil have a big savings. This way you will have the taste but
not the fat and calories. One cup of chips has 915 caloreis and about
51g fat. 1/4 cup has 228 cal and 12.7g fat. Use the mini chips.

Use egg beaters in place of eggs or 2 egg whites in place of one egg.
1egg=1Egg Beater 1Egg Beater=1/4 cup Egg Beaters. Be sure and and
beat egg whites until fluffy before adding. there is also a new item
in the health food store called ENER-G Egg Replacer. Mix 1 1/2 tsp.
mix and 2 Tb hot water = 1 egg. it is lower on caloreies and price
than Egg Beaters. One box is equal to 162 (13 1/2 dozen) eggs.

Butter Busters by Pam Mycoskie ISBN 0-446-67040-5 Entered by Carolyn
Shaw 2-95
Submitted By CAROLYN SHAW   On   02-15-95

