Title: Butter Busters Cholesterol Information 2/3 ^
Categories: Information, Pickles
Yield: 1 text file
MMMMM-----------------------NO INGREDIENTS----------------------------
WHAT YOU SHOULD KNOW IF YOUR BLOOD CHOLESTEROL IS TOO HIGH
Over 50% of the population in the US have blood cholesterol levels
over 200. Anything over 200 can involve risks. Even thogh this number
may sound normal to you, it may be too high for long term good
health. To some, success is getting the LDL level under 130. to
others, it is lowering the ratio of the total cholesterol to HDL to
less than 4.0. Ideally, you want high HDL levels and llow total and
LDL cholesterol levels. Adopting a diet that reduces both cholesterol
adn saturated fat is the first step in reducing your blood
cholesterol levels. Regular aerobic exercise can assist in
controlling your weight and raising your HDL (good) cholesterol
levels. Individuals who are unable to reduce their cholesterol (by
dietary and lifestyle changes) to acceptable levels, may need the
assistance of their physician. If your triglycerides number is high
(over 150), tyr cutting down on total calories, alcohol and refined
sugar, along with saturated fat. This might be helpful.

WHAT YOU SHOULD KNOW TO LOWER YOU BLOOD CHOLESTEROL Limit
:
the amount of saturated fat and cholesterol you eat.

Have your blood cholesterol checked. If it is over 200mg/dL, have all
of your lipoproteins measured-total cholesterol, LDL, HDL, and
triglycerides. You must fast for 12 hours to have this test
accurately measured.

Set your blood cholesterol goal. If your level remains more than
200mg/dL, seek the help of your physican for your appropriate goal.
Make sure you ask your physician about your ratio (total cholesterol
to HDL).

Determine how much you should weigh.

Determine how many calories you must eat to maintain the weight you
desire. Calorie requirements depend on your sex, frame size and
activity level. Multiply your desired weight x 15 and this will
determine an approximate calorie allotment to maintain or reach that
weight.

Multiply your total daily calorie allotment by 10%, 9% or 6% to
determine your maximum daily saturated fat budget; follow a low fat
eating plan and retest your blood cholesterol in three months.

Try to get your ratio under 4.0 and get your LDL cholesterol under
130. Of course, ensuring a good ratio means keeping your total
cholesterol under 200.

If blood cholesterol is still above 200mg/dL after 6 months, begin a
restricted saturated fat diet using a 6% or even a 3% multiplication
factor to determine what your maximum daily saturated fat budget
should be. It should come down with this dietary modification. If it
doesn't, you should check with your physician for further ideas as to
how to lower your cholesterol level.

The key to getting your cholesterol numbers where they should be is:
EATING LESS SATURATED FAT AND CHOLESTEROL-AND EXERCISING AEROBICALLY!

Maintaining "good numbers" is one of the most important steps you can
take to improve the odds that you won't have a heart attack!

WHAT YOU SHOULD KNOW ABOUT SATURATED FATS Keep
track of all the saturated fats and cholesterol you eat every day.
Try to eat a variety of foods. Try choosing foods with the lowest
possible amount of saturated fat and cholesterol in them. If you keep
a running total fo the saturated fat you eat, you will have better
luck controlling your saturated fat intake for the day. The same is
true for cholesterol. Modify your recipes to make them low or non-fat
through substitutions.

HOW SATURATED ARE THESE FATS?

%SATURATED
UNSATURATED
92
81
32
25
26 peanut oil 23
31 soybean oil 16 21 63 sesame oil 14 40 42 olive oil 12
FATS:
UNSATURATED
coconut oil
kernal oil
37 4 palm oil 50
cottonseed oil 25 16 59 crisco
49
:
81 7 corn oil 11 31 58 sunflower oil 10 20 66 safflower oil 10
78 canola oil 6 62 32
12

You can see by this chart that coconut oil has the highest percentage
of saturated fat. This is a fat you should really avoid when
possible. Canola oil contains the lowest percentage of unsaturated
fat, and would be a wiser choice. Remember, olive oil has the highest
percentage of monounsaturated fat which has veen shown to help lower
the LDL, (bad), cholesteroll levels in the blood. Therefore, Olive
Oil would be your best choice.

Butter Busters by Pam Mycoskie ISBN 0-446-67040-5 Entered by Carolyn
Shaw 2-95
Submitted By CAROLYN SHAW   On   02-15-95

