Title: Cashew Roulade with Broccoli
Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
Yield: 4 servings
1 1/2 c  Roasted, unsalted cahsews
2 cl Garlic
4    Eggs
Salt and freshly ground
-black pepper
MMMMM------------------------THE FILLING-----------------------------
-into small pieces
Salt and freshly ground
-black pepper
1 c  Hollandaise sauce (recipe
-included)
1 lb Broccoli, trimmed and cut
MMMMM-------------------THE HOLLANDAISE SAUCE------------------------
Salt and freshly ground
-black pepper
2 tb White wine vinegar
1 c  Butter
2 lg Egg yolks
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F.  LIne a 9-x-13 inch shallow sided
baking sheet with waxed paper to extend slightly up the sides.

Break the eggs into a large bowl, add salt and black pepper, and beat
until the mixture and a trail left in it by the beaters remains
visible for several seconds.  This is done easily with an electric
beater; by hand it taks 10-15 minutes.

Put the cashews and garlic into a food processor and work until they
are chopped finely but not oily and pulverized.

Stir two-thirds of the chopped nuts and garlic into the eggs; and
then pour this mixture into the prepared pan, smoothing it to the
edges. Bake until just firm and spongy in the center: 6-8 minutes.

Place a piece of waxed paper large enough for the roulade next to the
oven, and sprinkle it with the remaining chopped nuts and garlic.
Remove the roulade from the oven and place it face down onto the
paper. Remove the waxed paper that was used to line the pan from the
top.

Prepare the Hollandaise:  Put the wine vinegar in a small pan with 3
tablespoons of water, bring to a boil, and reduce down to a
tablespoon of liquid.  Allow to cool.  Put the butter into another
small pan and heat until foaming.

Place the egg yolks and the reduced vinegar in a food processor or
blender and blend until combined well.  With the motor running,
slowly pour in the butter.  As the mixture thickens, add the butter
more quickly. Season with salt and pepper.

Put the broccoli in a pan, pour in a little boiling water, cover and
half-boil, half-steam until just tender and still bright green: 3
minutes. Drain.  Lightly spread the roulade base with some of the
hollandaise sauce, then cover with an even layer of broccoli.  Roll
up the roulade from one of the short sides.

Serve at once with the remaining hollandaise.

From "The Classic Vegetarian," by Rose Elliot Posted by Hilde Mott
2/14/95 (This looks really nice if you slice it and place a pool of
Hollandaise on a plate, then center the slice of roulade in the pool
of sauce. I garnish with fresh, flat leaf parsley and a couple of
whole cashews) Submitted By HILDE MOTT   On   02-15-95

