Title: Chocolate Almond Steamed Pudding
Categories: Chocolate, Nuts/grains, Pudding
Yield: 12 servings
1 ts Instant expresso powder
1/2 c  Unsweetened cocoa powder,
Prefer dutch; firmly
-packed
3    1-oz semisweet chocolate
Squares; melted
4    Eggs
1 3/4 c  Cake flour
1 tb Baking powder
1 c  Half and half
All-purpose chocolate
Sauce; (recipe follows)
1/2 c  Blanched almonds
-- coarsely chopped
1/2 c  Blanched almonds
-- sliced
1 c  (+ 2 tbs) sugar
1    Stick unsalted butter
1/2 ts Almond extract
3 tb Chocolate-flavored
Liqueur or brandy
3 tb Amaretto or other
Almond-flavored liqueur
1/2 ts Salt
Recipe by: 365 Great Chocolate Desserts - ISBN 0-06-016537-5
Preparation Time: 3:30

1. Preheat oven to 325°F. Spread out chopped and sliced almonds on a
large baking sheet, keeping them separate. Bake 5 mins, or until
lightly toasted. Butter two 1-qt pudding molds and dust each with 1
Tbs sugar. Set a rack on the bottom of a large pot, fill pot with
water, and bring to a simmer.

2. Meanwhile, in a large bowl, beat butter and remaining 1 cup sugar
with an electric mixer on medium until light and fluffy, 1 to 2 mins.
Add almond extract, chocolate liqueur, amaretto, salt, expresso,
powder, cocoa, and melted chocolate. Beat until well blended. Add
eggs, one at a time, beating well after each addition. Sift together
cake flour and baking powder and add to chocolate mixture alternately
with half-and-half, beating only enough to combine. Stir on chopped
almonds.

3. Divide mixture evenly between 2 prepared molds; each should be
about 3/4 full. Place a round of buttered wax paper on top of each
mold. Place lids on molds and lower onto rack in pot of simmering
water. Water should reach 2/3 of the way up the sides of molds. Cover
pot and steam over low heat 3 hours, adding more water to pot if
necessary.

4. Remove molds from pot and let stand 10 mins before unmolding. Cut
into slices to serve. Serve hot, topped with All-Purpose Chocolate
Sauce and sprinkle with sliced almonds.

NOTES : This recipe for steamed pudding is different; you can prepare
it
in advance, keep it refrigerated, and reheat it in simmering
water
an hour before serving.

from my kitchen to------------------------------->yours..... Dan
Klepach

