Title: Curried Island Shrimp
Categories: Seafood
Yield: 4 servings
2 tb Tamarind pur*e OR
2 tb Lemon juice
1 ts Salt
1 1/2 c  Coconut milk
1 lb To 1 1/2 lb medium shrimp
-peeled and deveined
3 c  To 4 cups cooked
-long-grain white rice
1/4 c  Cilantro; minced
1/4 c  Coconut
-unsweetened, shredded
4 ts Vegetable oil
1 c  Onion; minced
4 ts Garlic; minced
4 ts Ginger; minced
1/2 ts Dried red pepper flakes OR
-fresh chili pepper; minced
-more to taste
MMMMM--------------------ISLAND CURRY POWDER-------------------------
2 ts Fenugreek seeds
3 tb Coriander seeds
4 ts Turmeric
1/2 ts Ground cinnamon
2 ts Black mustard seeds
2 ts Cumin seeds
2 ts Black peppercorns
2 ts Anise seed
To make your own curry powder, you will need a small spice grinder,
clean coffee grinder or mortar and pestle. heat a medium frying pan
over medium-low heat and add the mustard seeds, cumin, peppercorns,
anise, fenugreek and coriander. Shaking the pan, dry roast the spices
until the mustard seeds turn gray and the spices become fragrant,
about 5 minutes. Let cool, then grind to a fine powder. Transfer to a
small bowl and stir in the turmeric and cinnamon. Measure 2
tablespoons for this recipe; store the remainder tightly sealed in a
dark place. It will keep for up to 6 months (or longer) and can be
used like any other curry powder.

Note: This is what's known as a sweet curry powder. It is especially
versatile because it has very little heat of its own. Use it as is or
spice it up by adding cayenne or other hot pepper to taste.

Preheat oven to 375*F. Scatter the shredded coconut evenly in a cake
pan or pie tin and toast in the oven until browned and aromatic, 5 to
7 minutes, tossing occasionally so the coconut browns evenly. Set
aside.

In the frying pan, heat the oil over medium-low heat and saut* the
onion, garlic and ginger, partly covered, until softened, 3 to 5
minutes, stirring. Reduce heat to low; stir in the 2 tablespoons of
curry powder with the red pepper flakes. cook until fragrant, about 5
minutes, stirring.

Stir in the tamarind pur*e, salt and coconut milk; warm through,
about 2 minutes. Taste for seasoning, then add the shrimp and cook
until curled and pink, 3 to 4 minutes. Do not overcook. SErve over
fluffy rice, sprinkled with toasted coconut and cilantro.

Simply Seafood Winter 1994
Submitted By MICHELLE BRUCE   On   02-21-95

