Title: Effective Weight Control
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 text file
MMMMM-----------------------NO INGREDIENTS----------------------------
Set realistic goals based on your body fat composition. Body fat
composition should be between 20-26% fat for a woman and 14-20% fat
for a man. Allow enough time to lose the weight. About 1/2 to 2 lbs.
per week is normal. Try to weigh no more than once a week.

Plan your diet. Try to eat 70-75% complex carbohydrates, 15-20%
protein, and 10-20% fat every day. Keep food diaries for three days
ilf you are having trouble losing weight. It really makes you aware
of what you are eating. Analyze your calories and make sure you are
consuming enough to lkeep up your metabolic rate but not more than
you are burning throughout the day.

Eliminate empty calories such as hidden fats and simple sugars. Avoid
binging; it usualy means a problem with YOU, not hunger. Snack on low
fat foods, such as apples, cereals, air popped corn and pretzels.
Allow yourself to eat "problem" foods in a controlled setting. A
problem food would be something you have trouble controlling the
amount you eat. Try to eat these foods around other people. This
should help you be aware of how much you eat. Set a limit and stick
with it.

Increase you metablolic rate by avoiding starvation. Eat breakfast to
get your body moving, (inside and out). Eat small frequent meals
rather than one or two big meals. If you have been a chronic dieter,
it may take you 6-12 weeks to increase your metabolic rate. BE
PATIENT!

Be sure you consume an adequate amount of fluids. Drink 8-12 glasses
of water a day. Try drinking water 20 minutes before meals. Always
drink water along with your meals.

Keep a food-mood diary. Identify emotional triggers to eating and
replace food with another activity. Eat slowly, chew your food well,
and enjoy what you are eating. Take th etime to really taste  and
savor your food before yoy swallow it. Put your fork down between
bites. Don't do another activity while you are eating, such as
watching TV or eating. Emphasize the positive aspects in your life.

If you are having trouble controlling yourself with food or if food is
controlling your mood, check into weight management groups, such as
Weight Watchers or Over Eaters Anonymous. Diet counsellors at Health
Clubs can also be helpful. Work with a friend or a spouse. Encourage
each other!

Butter Busters by Pam Mycoskie ISBN 0-446-67040-5 Entered by Carolyn
Shaw 2-95
Submitted By CAROLYN SHAW   On   02-15-95

