Title: French-Style Bread
Categories: Bread
Yield: 2 loaves
5 c  Flour, all-purpose (or more)
1 T  Egg white mixed with 1 Tbsp
-cold water
Cornmeal
1 1/2 pk Yeast, active dry
1 T  Sugar
2 c  Warm water (100-115 F.)
1 T  Salt
Combine the yeast, sugar and warm water in a large bowl; allow the
yeast to proof.  Mix the salt with the flour and add to the yeast
mixture a cup at a time. Mix until you have a stiff dough that forms
a ball and pulls away from the sides of the bowl.

Turn out on to a lightly floured surface, and knead until no longer
sticky, about 10 minutes.  Add flour as necessary to maintain a stiff
consistency. Place in a buttered or oiled bowl and turn to completely
coat. Cover and let rise in a warm, draft-free spot until doubled;
about 1 1/2 - 2 hours.

Punch down the dough. Turn out on a lightly floured board, cut the
dough into two halves. Roll each half into long french-style loaves.
Slash the tops diagonally in 3-4 places and brush with the egg white
& water mixture. Place on a baking sheet that has been sprinkled with
corn meal, but not buttered.  Place sheet in a cold oven and bake at
400 F. for 35-40 minutes or until well browned and hollow sounding
when the tops are rapped.

Variations: 1. Use 1/2 whole-wheat & 1/2 white flour; or 1/2
cracked-wheat & 1/2 white. -Add 4-5 Tbsp olive oil to the liquid in
the first step. You may need to add more flour.  The olive oil will
add tenderness if using whole or cracked-wheat flours. 2. After the
first rising, punch down and knead again for 5-10 minutes. Return to
the buttered bowl and let rise to double in size. Punch down & form
into two long loaves, place on the baking sheet sprinkled with corn
meal. Cover and let rise for 30 minutes. Slash diagonally and brush
with the egg white & water mixture. Place in a cold oven and bake at
400 F. for 35 minutes or until well browned and hollow sounding when
tapped. 3. Line the oven with tiles (a pizza stone works nice) and
sprinkle with cornmeal. Preheat the oven to 400 F. and bake the bread
on the stone for 35 minutes or until well browned and hollow sounding
when tapped.

Hints:  The dough is kneaded enough when it springs back when you
press a couple of fingers into it.  I use 5 cups of flour in arid
Calgary, if you are in a more humid climate you will need more like 6
cups. I usually add a couple of Tbsp of olive oil to the dough, it
adds a nice flavor.

Typed by Bob 8-{)
Submitted By ROBERT WHITE   On   02-16-95

