Title: Gaastesteg med Aebler og Svedsker (Roast Goose w/Apples&P
Categories: West europe, Poultry, Main dish, Fruit
Yield: 10 servings
-coarsely chopped
2 c  Dried prunes; presoaked,
-pitted and coarsely chopped
1 lg Onion; peeled & quartered
8 lb Young goose (to 10 lb)
1/2    Lemon
Salt & fresh ground pepper
2 c  Apples; peeled, cored and
Preheat oven to 325F.

To prepare this classic Danish Christmas dish, first wash the goose
under cold running water. Pat it thoroughly dry with paper towels and
rub inside and out with lemon. Lightly salt and pepper the inside and
stuff the cavity with the coarsely chopped apples, prunes and onion
quarters. Close by lacing skewers or by sewing with heavy white
thread. Fasten the neck skin to the back of the goose with a skewer
and truss the bird securely so that it will keep it's shape while
cooking.

Roast goose on a rack set in a shallow open pan for 3 to 3 1/2 hours
(about 20 to 25 minutes per pound). As the goose fat accumulates in
the pan, draw it off with a bulb baster or large kitchen spoon.
Basting the goose itself is unnecessary.

To test whether the bird is done, pierce the thigh with the tip of a
small sharp knife. If the juice that runs out is still somewhat pink,
roast another 5 to 10 minutes or until juices run clear or pale
yellow. When done, turn off oven leaving the finished bird to set
with the door ajar for 15 minutes to make it easier to carve.

Transfer the goose to a large heated platter and remove the string and
skewers. Scoop out the stuffing and discard it. The fruits and onion
will have imparted their flavor to the goose but will be far too
fatty to serve.

Traditionally, poached apples stuffed with prunes (see recipe) are
served with the Christmas goose. Red cabbage and carmelized potatoes
(see recipes) complete the Christmas menu in Denmark.

Serves 8 to 10

Source: Time/Life Foods of the World, Recipes: The Cooking of
Scandinavia (1968) Typos by .\\ichele

.\\ichele's notes: My husband, Peter, made this dish for our 1993
Christmas dinner. The only changes made were in the cooking process.
A newer, better method now calls for pricking the skin of the bird in
several places and starting the cooking with the bird breast side
down. This allows for the most fat to run clear. And there's ALOT of
it. Our 8 lb bird yielded over 5 cups of fat! When cooking is halfway
done, turn the bird over and continue cooking until the juices run
clear. Enjoy, since this is a DELICIOUS way to celebrate the holidays!
Submitted By MICHELLE BRUCE   On   02-21-95

