Title: Goulasch mitt Kartoffel Kloesse (Stew with Potato Dumplin
Categories: Aust/german, Soup/stew, Beef, Pasta, Vegetable
Yield: 4 servings
MMMMM-------------------FROM: GUNTER KIRCHHOFF------------------------
MMMMM----------------FOR THE GOULASCH (STEW) YOU---------------------
About a teaspoon each of
-(or to taste)
Black pepper, nutmeg,
-paprika (more helps to
2 lb Of stew beef
2 ea - 3 Celery sticks,
2 ea - 3 med carrottes,
1 lg Onion
1 ea 5oz can of tomato paste
brown meat) salt, 2 lrg. bay leaves and some caraway seeds if you
like. Brown the meat in lard or shortning, add finely chopped onion
celery cut up into small chunks and finely diced peeled carrottes
brown a little longer til onion turn slightly glassy add all herbs
and spices, and cover with water and simmer til meat is
tender,perhaps adding a bit more water as this makes the gravy (at
least 3 hrs for better taste). Just before serving add a bit more
water, the tomato paste, and more salt & pepper to taste bring to a
boil and thicken with flour or cornstarch BUT NOT TOO THICK!
Kartoffel Kloesse: ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ Boil about 10 large potatoes
the night before in the peel and leave out on counter. Peel next
morning, and grind, squeeze or what ever into very fine pulp. Put in
large mixing bowl. Also add two whole eggs, 1 graded lg onion, a fair
bit of ground or flaked majoram 1/2 tsp of nutmeg, salt and pepper.
Take about 15 more large potatoes, peel them grade them and squeeze
all the water out of this pulp (I use a juicer to get the water out)
Take the completely dry potatoe starch & fiber portion and finely add
to the mixture in bowl mix everything together well, if it feels a
bit add a tad flour to dry and bind. take mixture and form balls the
size of a medium orange. Take large dutch oven type pot fill 2/3 with
water add salt and bring to a rolling boil, gently drop in enough
potatoe balls but make sure they do not pile up on each other or
stick together, and boil. This will take about 25 - 30 minutes, at
wich time they will float up and when they turn around without help
they are ready. Take one out on plate tear appart with two forks -
never, never cut them if they are cooked thru' (no more raw stuff in
the centre) it's time to serve. Serve on plates about two per adult
tear appart and cover liberally with goulash. Guten Appetit! (Serves
4 - 6 ) Leftovers can be reheated in microwave or sliced and prepared
like home frys.

Submitted By PAT STOCKETT   On   02-05-95

