Title: Long-Distance Sunflower Banana Fig Sandwiches
Categories: Cake/cookie, Fruit, Nuts/grains
Yield: 12 sandwiches
MMMMM----------------------SANDWICH WAFERS---------------------------
2 tb Brewer's yeast
2 tb Wheat germ
3/4 ts Baking soda
1/2 c  Sunflower seeds; ground
1/2 c  Whole sunflower seeds; for
-topping
1/2 c  Peanut butter
2 tb Molasses
2 tb Honey
1    Banana
1    Egg
1 ts Vanilla
1 1/4 c  Whole wheat pastry flour
MMMMM---------------------ORANGE-FIG SPREAD--------------------------
6 tb Frozen orange juice
-concentrate
1 c  Dried figs
1/4 c  Water
A dynamic trio--sunflower seeds have what it takes to turn you on and
get you going (lots of B vitamins, zinc, and magnesium); bananas are
an excellent source of potassium and vitamin B6; and figs contain not
only iron, magnesium, and potassium, but are an excellent source of
bone-building calcium, even more than milk.  The yeast, wheat germ,
molasses, and peanut butter further enhance the nutrient value of
these delicious, crunchy confections.

Combine peanut butter, molasses, honey, egg, banana, and vanilla in
food processor, blender, or mixing bowl, and blend until smooth and
creamy. In another bowl, combine flour, yeast, wheat germ, and baking
soda and blend with the first mixture until well-combined. Chill the
dough, tightly covered, for an hour.

Preheat the oven to 350F.

Pinch off pieces of dough about the size of a walnut, dip them in the
ground sunflower seeds, then flatten the chunks between your hands to
make circles about 2 inches in diameter.  Place on a cookie sheet
lined with parchment paper or greased with a few drops of liquid
lecithin and oil. Top each wafer with a few whole sunflower seeds.
Bake for 7 to 9 minutes or until firm.

To make the orange-fig spread, cook the figs in water until tender
(about 8 minutes).  Combine the cooked figs with the orange juice
concentrate in blender or food processor, and process until of
spreadable consistency.

Spread the flat side of half the cooled wafers with orange-fig
spread. Top with remaining wafers.

Approximately 236 calories each.

from Smart Cookies by Jane Kinderlehrer "Smart Cookies on the Run"
Submitted By LAWRENCE KELLIE   On   02-12-95

