Title: Maafeh of Vematza Metubal Beshamiz (Baked Matzoh (see dir
Categories: Middle east, Chicken, Casserole
Yield: 4 servings
Black pepper; freshly ground
3 c  Chicken meat, cooked; cut
;into strips about 1/4 inch
;wide, 1/4 inch thick and
;1 1/2 inch long
1/2 c  Vegetable oil
3    Square matzohs; (plain)
2 c  Chicken stock; fresh or can
6    Egg
1/2 c  Onion; finely chopped
1/2 c  Dill, fresh; finely cut or
;2 tablespoons dried dill
;weed
1/4 c  Parsley; finely chopped,
;prefer flat leaf
2 ts Salt
Name; Baked Matzoh, Chicken and Dill Casserole

Preheat the oven to 400 degrees (F).  In a deep mixing bowl, beat
the eggs with a whisk or a rotary or electric beater until frothy,
stir in onions, dill, parsley, salt and a few grindings of pepper,
then add the chicken.  Turn the pieces gently about with a spoon
until they are thoroughly coated.
Heat the oil in a small saucepan until a light haze forms above it,
then pour a teaspoon of it into an 8 inch square shallow baking dish,
tilting the dish to spread it evenly.  Set the remaining oil aside
off the heat.
Dip a matzoh into the chicken stock until it is well moistened. Lay
it in the bottom of the baking dish, spread half of the chicken and
egg mixture evenly over it, moisten a second matzoh in the chicken
stock and place it over the chicken.  Spread the remaining chicken
and egg mixture on top and cover with the third moistened matzoh.
Pour about half the remaining oil evenly over the last matzoh and
bake in the middle of the oven for 15 minutes.  then sprinkle with
the rest of the oil and continue baking for 15 minutes longer, or
until the top is browned. Serve at once.

Matzohs are a special version of unleavened bread associated with
the Jewish "Pesach" or Passover ceremonies, which commemorate the
flight of the Israelites from Egypt to the Promised Land of Canaan.
Escaping Egypt so abruptly, they ere unable to leaven or bake their
bread beforehand, and had to make a simple flour and water dough for
baking in the sun, thus producing the crisp flat matzoh.

NOTE:  If you do not have cooked chicken meat on hand, prepare it by
poaching 3 pounds of chicken, a sliced onion, 2 celery tops, a bay
leaf and a teaspoon of salt in 2 cups of water.  Bring to a boil,
cover and simmer over low heat for 1 hour.  Remove the chicken and
when cool bone and skin it.  Strain the broth.  You should have about
3 cups of meat and 2 cups of broth.

55 of 116

Time Life Series: Middle Eastern Cooking "circa '69"

MMed by: earl.cravens@salata.com
Submitted By EARL CRAVENS   On   02-05-95

