Title: Ocopa Arequipena (Potatoes with Peanut, Chili (see dirs))
Categories: So. america, Vegetable, Side dish, Nuts/grains
Yield: 6 servings
1/4 ts Salt
1/4 c  Yellow chili paste; or 1 ts.
;finely chopped, seeded
;fresh hot red or grn chili
1/4 c  Soda cracker crumbs
6    Boiling potatoes; peeled
6    Lettuce leaves
6    Eggs, hard cooked; halve
12    Black olives, ripe
1 1/2 c  Peanuts, salted
1/3 c  Cream, heavy
1/3 c  Milk
1/2 c  Queso blanco; crumbled or
;1/2 cup grated fresh
;mozzarella or Munster
;cheese
5 tb Peanut oil; or substitute
5 tbs. flavorless oil
MMMMM----------------SILVER XPRESS MAIL SYSTEM 5---------------------
Name:  Potatoes with Peanut, Chili and Cheese Sauce

Place the nuts in a jar of an electric blender and blend at high
speed for about 30 seconds.  Pour the cream and milk into the jar,
and add the cheese, oil, salt, and chili paste or fresh chili, and
blend again at high speed for about 1 minute, or until the
ingredients are reduced to a smooth puree.  (To make the sauce by
hand, crush the nuts with a pestle in a large mortar, then pound in
the chili paste or fresh chili and the cheese. When the mixture is as
smooth as possible, little by little stir in the oil, cream and milk
and season with the salt. Mix together thoroughly and taste for
seasoning; the sauce may need more salt.) However you have made the
sauce, if it seems too thin (it should have the consistency of very
thick mayonnaise) thicken it by stirring in finely crumbled soda
cracker crumbs, adding up to 1/4 cup if necessary.

Now drop the potatoes into a large pan of rapidly boiling, lightly
salted water.  Boil vigorously, uncovered, until the potatoes can be
easily pierced with the point of a small, sharp knife.  Be careful
not to overcook.  Remove the potatoes form the pan with a slotted
spoon and drain on paper towels.  To serve, center the lettuce leaves
on individual plates. Set a potato on each leaf and pour about 1/4
cup of the sauce over it. Garnish with hard cooked eggs and olives.
Serve at once.

73 of 108

Source: Time Life Series: Latin American Cooking

MMed by: earl.cravens@salata.com * Origin: Salata * Redondo Beach, CA
* 310-543-0439 V.32bis (1:102/125)
Submitted By MICHELLE BRUCE   On   02-04-95

