Title: Pastitsio (Baked Macaroni & Cheese Casserole (see dirs))
Categories: Middle east, Greek, Casserole, Meat, Cheese/eggs
Yield: 10 servings
1/2 c  Bread crumbs; fresh, soft
;made from homemade type
;white bread, pulverized in
;a blender or shredded with
;a fork
1    Egg; lightly beaten
3/4 c  Kefalotiri cheese; freshly
;grated or Parmesan cheese
SAUCE:
4 c  Milk
2 tb Butter
6    Egg
1 ts Salt
1/2 c  Flour
1 tb Salt
2 ts Salt
1 lb Ziti (or elbow macaroni)
7 tb Olive oil
1 c  Onion; finely chopped
1 1/2 lb Lamb, lean ground
6 md Tomato; peeled, seeded and
;finely chopped or 2 cups
;chopped, drained, canned
;tomatoes
1 c  Tomato puree; canned
1 ts Garlic; finely chopped
1 ts Oregano; crumbled
1/4 ts Ground cinnamon
Black pepper; freshly ground
Name; Baked Macaroni and Cheese Casserole with Lamb and Cream Sauce

In a large pot bring 6 to 8 quarts of water and 1 tablespoon of the
salt to a boil over high heat and drop in the ziti.  Stirring
occasionally, cook the pasta for 15 minutes, or until soft but still
somewhat resistant to the bite.  Immediately, drain the pasta
thoroughly in a large colander and set aside.
Meanwhile, prepare the lamb and the cream sauce.  In a heavy 10 to
12 inch skillet, heat 6 tablespoons of the olive oil over moderate
heat until a light haze forms above it.  Add the onions and, stirring
frequently, cook for 5 minutes, or until they are soft and
transparent but not brown. Add the lamb and, mashing it frequently
with the back of a spoon or fork to break up any lumps, cook until
all traces of pink disappear. Stir in the tomatoes, tomato puree,
garlic, oregano, cinnamon, the remaining 2 teaspoons of salt and a
few grindings of pepper and bring to a boil over high heat.  Reduce
the heat to low, cover tightly and simmer for 15 minutes.  Remove the
pan from the heat, stir in 1/4 cup of the bread crumbs, the beaten
egg and set aside.

To make the cream sauce, combine 3 cups of the milk and the butter
in a small pan until bubbles appear around the rim of the pan. Remove
from the heat.  In a heavy 2 to 3 quart saucepan, beat the eggs with
a whisk or rotary beater until they are frothy.  Add the remaining 1
cup of milk and 1 teaspoon of salt and, beating constantly, slowly
pour in the heated milk and butter mixture in a thin stream and,
still stirring, bring to a boil over moderate heat. Continue to boil
until the sauce is thick and smooth. Then set aside.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees (F).  With a pastry brush coat the
bottom and sides of a 9 by 15 by 2 1/2 inch baking dish with the
remaining tablespoon of olive oil.  Sprinkle the bottom with the
remaining 1/4 cup of bread crumbs and spread half the reserved pasta
on top. Cover with the meat, smoothing it into the corners with a
spatula. Then pour 2 cups of the cream sauce evenly on top. Sprinkle
with half the grated cheese. Make another layer with the remaining
ziti, pour over it the rest of the cream sauce, and sprinkle with the
remaining cheese. Bake in the middle of the oven for 45 minutes, or
until the top is a delicate golden brown. Cut into squares and serve.

47 of 116

Time Life Series: Middle Eastern Cooking "circa '69"

MMed by: earl.cravens@salata.com
Submitted By EARL CRAVENS   On   02-05-95

