Title: Quesilo de Pina (Pineapple Custard)
Categories: So. america, Dessert, Pudding, Fruit
Yield: 8 servings
2    Egg yolks
15 oz Condensed milk; can
15 oz Pineapple juice; can
1/4 c  Sugar
CARMEL:
1 c  Sugar
1/2 c  Water
CUSTARD:
3    Egg; whole
To line a 6 cup metal or porcelain mold with caramel, it is
necessary to work quickly.  Remember in handling the caramel that its
temperature will be over 300 degrees (F), so be extremely careful
with it. Place the mold on a large strip of wax paper.  Then, in a
small, heavy saucepan or skillet, bring the sugar and water to a boil
over high heat, stirring until the sugar dissolves.  Boil the syrup
over moderate heat, gripping a pot holder in each hand and gently
tipping the pan back and forth almost constantly, until the syrup
turns a rich, golden, tea-like brown. This may take 10 minutes or
more. As soon as the syrup reaches the right color, remove the pan
from the heat and carefully pour the caramel syrup all at once into
the mold.  Still using the pot holders, tip and swirl the mold to
coat the bottom and sides as evenly as possible.  When the syrup
stops moving, turn the mold upside down on the wax paper to drain and
cool.
Preheat the oven to 325 degrees (F).  In a large mixing bowl, beat
the eggs and egg yolks with a whisk or a rotary or electric beater
until they thicken and turn a light yellow.  Gradually pour in the
condensed milk, pineapple juice and sugar, and beat until all the
ingredients are well combined.  Strain through a fine sieve into the
caramel-lined mold, and place the mold in a large pan on the middle
shelf of the oven. Pour enough boiling water into the pan to come
halfway up the sides of the mold. Bake the custard for about 1 hour,
or until a knife inserted in the center of the custard comes out
clean. Remove the mold from the water, let it cool to room
temperature, then refrigerate the custard for at least 3 hours, or
until it is thoroughly chilled.
To unmold and serve the large custard, run a sharp knife around the
sides, and dip the bottom of the mold briefly in hot water.  then
wipe the outside of the mold dry, place a chilled serving plate
upside down over the mold and, grasping mold and plate together
firmly, quickly turn them over. Rap the plate on a table and the
custard should slide easily out of the mold.  Pour any extra caramel
remaining in the mold over the custard. Serve cold.

93 of 108

Source: Time Life Series: Latin American Cooking

MMed by: earl.cravens@salata.com
Submitted By MICHELLE BRUCE   On   02-04-95

