Title: Samakah Harrah (Baked Fish with Walnut and (see dirs.))
Categories: Middle east, Fish, Dress/stuff
Yield: 8 servings
;a towel and finely crushed
;with a rolling pin
1/2 c  Parsley; finely chopped,
;prefer flat leaf
1 tb Parsley: as above
3 tb Pomegranate seeds, fresh
1 1/2 ts Black pepper; freshly ground
Taratoor sauce
1    Lemon; cut crosswise into
;1/8 inch thick slices
1 c  Olive oil
1    Striped bass; (about 4 1/2
;pounds), cleaned & scaled
;but with head and tail left
;on, or any other firm whole
;white fish
3 ts Salt
1 c  Onion; finely chopped
1 1/2 c  Green peppers; finely
;finely chopped
1 c  Walnuts, shelled; wrapped in
Name;  Baked Fish with Walnut and Pomegranate Seed Stuffing

Preheat the oven to 400 degrees (F).  Pour 1/4 cup of the oil into a
shallow baking and serving dish large enough to hold the fish
comfortably. Wash the fish under cold running water, and pat it dry
with paper towels. Sprinkle inside and out with 2 teaspoons of salt.
Lay the fish in the dish, pour 1/4 cup of the remaining oil over it,
and let it marinate at room temperature for 15 minutes.
Meanwhile, in a heavy 10 to 12 inch skillet, heat the remaining 1/2
cup of oil over moderate heat.  Add the onions and, stirring
frequently, cook for 10 minutes, or until they are soft and golden
brown. Stir in the green peppers and walnuts and cook for 2 or 3
minutes until the peppers are soft. Off the heat add 1/2 cup of
parsley, 2 tablespoons of pomegranate seeds, the remaining salt and
the black pepper. Taste for seasoning.
Fill the fish with the walnut stuffing, close the opening with small
skewers, and crisscross kitchen string around them to secure them.
Bake in the middle of the oven for 40 to 50 minutes, basting the fish
every 15 minutes with its accumulated cooking juices.  the fish is
done when it feels firm to the touch.  Do not overcook.  Remove the
fish from the oven and spread it evenly with the taratoor.  Sprinkle
with the remaining parsley and pomegranate seeds, garnish the top
with a row of lemon slices and serve hot or cold.

65 of 116

Source: Time Life Series: Middle Eastern Cooking "circa '69"

MMed by: earl.cravens@salata.com
Submitted By EARL CRAVENS   On   02-12-95

