Title: Sunshine Coffeecake
Categories: Mixes, Cake/cookie
Yield: 1 cake
1 c  Milk or water
1 t  Vanilla
3 c  Quick mix
1/3 c  Sugar
1    Egg, slightly beaten
MMMMM------------------CINNAMON CRUMBLE TOPPING-----------------------
1/2 c  Brown sugar
1 t  Cinnamon
1/4 c  Butter or margarine
Preheat oven to 350.  Butter an 8" square pan.  In a medium
1/3 c  Flour
1/2 c  Dry breadcrumbs or cookie
Or cake crumbs
:
bowl, combine quick mix and sugar until evenly distibuted.  In a
small bowl, combine egg, milk or water, and vanilla.  Stir until just
blended.  All liquid ingredients all at once to dry ingredients.
Fold mixture together until blended.  Prepare cinnamon crumble
topping.  Spread half the batter in the prepared pan.  Spread half
the topping over the batter.  Top with remaining batter and topping.
Bake 40 to 50 minutes.  Topping:  In medium bowl combine flour,
crumbs, brown sugar and cinnamon.  With a pastry blender, cut in
butter or margarine until mixture is crumbly.

Variations:

FRESH CRUMBLE TOPPING: Prepare 1 1/2 cups sweetened sliced, fresh or
frozen fruit.  Spread over first half of batter and top with cinnamon
crumble topping, see above.  Proceed according to recipe directions.

APPLE CRUMBLE TOPPING: Add 1 1/2 cups peeled, finely chopped apples
and 1/2 cup raisins to cinnamon crumble topping, see above.  Spread
mixture on top of coffeecake before baking for a crusty topping, or
on the bottom of the pan for a moist coffee cake.

DATE NUT TOPPING: Omit cinnamon crumble topping. In a small bowl,
combine 1 cup brown sugar and 1/4 cup flour until well blended.  In
another bowl, mix together 1/2 cup chopped pitted dates and 1 tsp
vanilla; add to brown sugar mixture. Stir in 1/2 cup chopped nuts.
Cut in 1/4 cup butter or margarine until mixture is crumbly. Proceed
acccording to recipe directions.

CHOCOLATE SWIRL TOPPING: Omit cinnamon crumble topping.  Melt 1/3 cup
unsweetened chocolate chips in microwave. In a small bowl, combine
1/3 cup flaked coconut, 1/4 cup chopped nuts, 1/4 cup sugar and 1
tbsp melted margarine or butter. Pour coffecake into prepared pan.
Spoon melted chocolate over batter. With a knife, cut through batter
several times for a marbled effect. Sprinkle coconut mixture evenly
over the top, and bake.

Submitted By MEG ANTCZAK   On   02-06-95

