Title: Sweet and Sour Pork (Goo Lo Yuke)
Categories: Chinese, Main dish, Pork
Yield: 1 servings
No Ingredients Found
Had a house guest last week++an old friend who likes my Chinese
cooking, but tends to prefer the tamer stuff++you know, things
without tentacles or feet.  So I whipped up a batch of this
excellent, quick and easy sweet and sour pork.  It's a long time
favorite that I haven't cooked for a some time.  Been too busy with
Thai and Vietnamese food to make it. It was just as excellent as I
remember it being and I actually improved on it with a couple of
substitutions.

I used 1/2 cup palm sugar instead of 1/2 cup brown sugar.  Palm sugar
has a rich, complex and addicting taste while being a little less
cloyingly sweet than regular sugars.  It gives a taste that's
"exotic" without being obvious.  Where the recipe calls for 3/4 cup
pineapple juice I used 3/4 cup of the juice from some brandied
peaches I made.  I made 'em months ago and froze the leftover juice
specifically to use in a sweet and sour dish. (This is a good thing
to do with any sweet fruity type juice.) I left out the marashino
cherries++bleechhhhh!++and substituted a red bell pepper for the
color contrast.  The only thing even faintly exotic in the recipe is
the canned lichees (also a good juice to save for sweet and sour
stuff) and that can be omitted if you can't find them++or use canned
apricots or whatever instead.  You could also use longans or
rambutans, which are close relatives of lichee, quite successfully.
Yield: 6 servings 1 lb pork butt cut into 1-inch pieces MEAT
MARINADE: 1 tablespoon sherry 2 tablespoons water 2 tablespoons
Kikkoman soy sauce (this brand is best for this recipe) [I use plain
ol' Pearl River soy and it works just fine.  S.C.] 4 teaspoons flour
4 teaspoons cornstarch 1 green pepper, cut into 1/2 inch chunks 1
onion, cut into wedges 12 maraschino cherries 1 cup canned lichee 1
cup pineapple chunks SAUCE MIXTURE: 1/2 cup brown sugar 1/2 cup
vinegar 1 teaspoon salt 4 tablespoons catsup 3/4 cup pineapple juice
4 teaspoons cornstarch PREPARATION: Drain fruits, prepare sauce
mixture. Marinate pork in meat marinade for 1/2 hour. COOKING: Deep
fry pork cubes in a wok for about 3 to 4 minutes until golden brtown.
Drain. Pour all the oil back into the bottle.  Add sauce mixture into
wok and stir untio thickened. Add green pepper and onions and cook
for 2 minutes. Add pork cubes and stir until heated through. Add
fruits and stir until they're coated with the sauce. DO-AHEAD NOTES:
Cook through making the sauce.  Just before serving, add pork,
vegetables and fruit acording to directions. From "The Chinese
Village Cookbook." A practical guide to Cantonese country cooking.
Rhoda Yee, Yerba Buena Press, San Francisco.  1975. Posted by Stephen
Ceideburg; March 11 1991.

Submitted By PAT STOCKETT   On   02-04-95

