Title: Talas Kebabi (Veal Pies with Mushrooms)
Categories: Middle east, Turkish, Pie/tart, Veal, Mushroom
Yield: 4 servings
;into 1/2 inch dice
8    Filo pastry sheets; each
;about 16 inches long by 12
;inches wide, thoroughly
;defrosted if frozen
1    Egg yolk; lightly beaten
4    Mushroom caps, fresh; each
;about 2 inches in diameter,
;cut crosswise into 1/8 inch
;thick slices
16 tb Butter; (1/2 pound) cut into
;1/4 inch bits and clarified
1/2 c  Onion; finely chopped
1 tb Parsley; finely chopped;
;preferred flat leaf
1 ts Tomato paste
1 ts Salt
Black pepper; freshly ground
1/2 c  Water
1 1/2 lb Veal, lean boneless; cut
In a heavy 10 to 12 inch skillet, heat 4 tablespoons over moderate
heat until a drop of water flicked into it sputters instantly.  Add
the onions and, stirring constantly, cook for 5 minutes, or until
they are soft and transparent but not brown.  Add the parsley, tomato
paste, salt, a few grindings of pepper and 1/4 cup of the water and
bring to a boil over high heat.  Drop in the veal, turning the pieces
about with a spoon until they are thoroughly moistened.  Reduce the
heat to low, and simmer partially covered for about 30 minutes, or
until the veal is tender and amost all of the liquid in the pan has
evaporated. Then increase the heat to high and, stirring constantly,
cook briskly until the veal browns lightly. Be careful that it does
not burn. With a slotted spoon, transfer the veal to a bowl and set
it aside to drain. Pour the remaining 1/4 cup of water into the
skillet and bring to a boil over high heat, meanwhile scraping in any
brown particles clinging to the bottom and sides of the pan.  Set
aside.
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees (F).  With a pastry brush, coat a
large baking sheet with 1 tablespoon of the butter.  To assemble each
veal pie, lay a sheet of file flat and brush the top evenly with
about 1 tablespoon of butter.  Cover with a second sheet of filo, and
fold the two in half crosswise to make a four layered rectangle about
8 inches wide and 12 inches long.  Place about 1/2 cup of the veal in
the center of the pastry and, with a knife or metal spatula, spread
the filling into a rectangle about 2 inches wide and 4 inches long.
Fold one long edge of the filo completely across the filling and
bring the opposite side over the first fold to make a packet about 2
1/2 inches wide. Brush the top with 1 more teaspoon of butter. Turn
both ends of the packet up, overlapping them slightly, to enclose the
filling securely. Then finished pie will be about 4 1/2 inches long.
Place the pies, seam sides down, on the baking sheet and brush them
with beaten egg yolk.  Bake in the middle of the oven for 15 to 20
minutes until the pastry is crisp and delicately browned.
Meanwhile, heat the remaining 2 tablespoons of butter in an 8 to 10
inch skillet.  Add the mushrooms and cook over moderate heat for 2
minutes, or until they brown lightly.  Add the reserved veal cooking
sauce and bring to a boil, then reduce the heat to low.  Cover and
simmer for 5 minutes.
To serve, arrange the pies on a heated serving platter, place a row
of over lapping mushroom slices on the top of each, and moisten with
the sauce remaining in the skillet.  Garnish the platter, if you like
with hot cooked asparagus tips and green peas.

48 of 116

Time Life Series: Middle Eastern Cooking "circa '69"

MMed by: earl.cravens@salata.com i
Submitted By EARL CRAVENS   On   02-05-95

