Title: The Basic Bagel
Categories: Bread
Yield: 12 servings
-flour (unsifted)
3 qt Water with 1 Tbl sugar
Cornmeal
1    Egg yolk beaten with 1 Tbl
-water
2 c  Warm water (100 to 115
-deg.F)
2 pk Active dry yeast
3 tb Sugar
3 ts Salt
About 5 3/4 cup all-purpose
Combine water and yeast in the large bowl of an electric mixer; let
stand 5 minutes. Stir in sugar and salt; gradually mix in 4 cup of
the flour. Beat at medium speed for 5 minutes. With a spoon, mix in
about 1 1/4 cups more flour to make a stiff dough. Turn out on a
floured board and knead until smooth, elastic, and no longer sticky,
about 15 minutes; add more flour as needed (dough should be firmer
than for most other yeast breads). Place in a greased bowl, cover,
and let rise in a warm place until almost doubled, about 40 minutes.
Knead dough lightly, then divide into 12 equal pieces. To shape,
knead each piece, forming it into a smooth ball. Holding ball with
both hands, poke your thumbs through the center. With one thumb in
the hole, work around perimeter, shaping bagel like a doughnut, 3 to
3 1/2 inches across. Place shaped bagels on a lightly floured board,
cover lightly, and let stand in a warm place for 20 minutes. Bring the
water-sugar mixture to boiling in a 4 or 5 quart pan; adjust heat to
keep it boiling gently. Lightly grease baking a baking sheet and
sprinkle with cornmeal. Gently lift one bagel at a time and drop into
water; boil about 4 at a time, turning often, for 5 minutes. Lift out
with a slotted spatula, drain briefly on a towel, and place on the
baking sheet. Brush bagels with the egg yolk glaze and bake in  a 400
deg.F oven for about 35 to 40 minutes, or until well browned and
crusty. Cool on a rack. Makes 12.

WHOLE WHEAT BAGELS -----+-----+------ Follow basic recipe, omitting
sugar; use 3 Tbl honey instead. In place of the flour, use 2 cups
whole wheat, 1/2 cup wheat germ, and about 2 3/4 cups all-purpose
flour. Mix in all the whole wheat flour and wheat germ and 1 1/4 cups
all-purpose flour before beating dough. Then mix in about 1 1/2 cups
more all-purpose flour, knead, and finish as directed.

PUMPERNICKEL BAGELS *+* Follow basic recipe, omitting sugar; instead
use 3 Tbl dark molasses. In place of the flour use 2 cups each rye
and whole wheat and about 1 3/4 cups all-purpose flour. Add all the
rye and 1 cup each of the whole wheat and all-purpose before beating
dough. Then add remaining 1 cup of whole wheat and about 3/4 cup more
all-purpose flour, knead, and finish as directed.

MORE BAGEL VARIETY ----+-----+------- Try adding 1/2 cup instant
toasted onion to the whole wheat or basic bagels; add it to the yeast
mixture along with the sugar and salt. Or sprinkle 1/2 tsp poppy or
sesame seed or 1/4 tsp coarse salt on each glazed bagel before
baking. Or add 1 Tbl caraway seed to pumpernickel bagels, then
sprinkle each glazed bagel with 1/2 tsp more caraway seed before
baking.

