Title: The Terrace's Black Bean Soup
Categories: Main dish, Pork, Soup/stew, Vegetable
Yield: 8 servings
1/4 ts Sage
1 ts Onion powder
1 ts Chopped fresh garlic
1 ts Cumin
1/2 ts Black pepper
2 tb Chopped fresh parsley
2 tb Chopped green chilies
1 md Red onion; chopped
4 c  Cleaned black beans
4 qt ;Water
2 c  Chicken stock
10 oz Hot or mild Italian sausage
2 md Carrots; chopped
1 md Onion; chopped
3    Celery ribs; chopped
1    Bay leaf
1 ts Thyme
MMMMM------------------------CUMIN SAUCE-----------------------------
1/4 ts Cumin
1/2 ts Tabasco
1 ts Worcestershire sauce
1 c  Sour cream
2 ts Chopped fresh garlic
1/2 ts Salt
1/2 ts Onion powder
Check through beans.  Toss any undesirables and pieces of gravel.
Rinse beans, then place in a large kettle.  Cover with water and soak
overnight. Drain and rinse beans the next day.

Return to kettle along with 4 quarts of water and chicken stock. Begin
cooking over medium-high heat.

While beans are cooking, saute Italian sausage.  Drain off fat.  Chop
fine and add to beans.  Add chopped carrots, onion, celery, bay leaf,
thyme, sage, onion powder, garlic, cumin, black pepper, parsley and
green chilies.

Bring to a boil.  Reduce heat to a simmer and cook 1 1/2 to 2 hours,
adding more water if needed.  This is a thick soup so don't go
overboard adding water.

Top each serving with chopped red onion and a dollop of cumin sauce.

Yield: 8 to 10 servings.

To make cumin sauce: Combine all ingredients and chill for 1 hour. Use
about 1 tablespoon per serving of soup.

This is a very versatile recipe, and all ingredients may be adjusted
to taste.

Colombo wrote: "I think it is the best black bean soup I've had."

From sous chef Laurie Spicer of The Terrace restaurant as per the
request of Louisvillian Delores Locke in Alice Colombo's 12/07/94
"Cook's Corner" column called "Terrace Restaurant's Black Bean Soup
is the Best Ever" in "The (Louisville, KY) Courier-Journal."  Pg. C9.
Typed for you by Cathy Harned.
Submitted By MICHELLE BRUCE   On   02-05-95

