Title: Toddlers & Eating Part 1
Categories: Kids, Information
Yield: 1 servings  Whether your child is an infant or a picky pre-schooler, you probably
wonder if she's eating well. When she spits out her rice cereal or
insists on eating only peanut butter, it doesn't seem that she could
possibly be getting all the nutrients she needs.

But chances are she is. Surprisingly, most young children do quite
well nutritionally throughout infancy and the toddler years despite
their unique eating habits.

Your child's body needs more than 20 vitamins and minerals to function
properly. Without them, he couldn't grow and develop normally.
Vitamins and minerals help your child's vision, bone growth, skin and
blood, teeth and immune system. It's no wonder that the word vitamin
is derived from the Latin root vita, meaning life. In addition to
these important vitamins, your child needs minerals to grow.

FEEDING THE ACTIVE TODDLER

Many parents worry most about toddlers, who eat and run (but mostly
run). These finicky eaters often embark on dreaded food jags, during
which their daily menu consists of only one or two foods. Should you
be concerned? Not really. "Many kids manage to meet their nutrition
needs, even though their eating is a bit erratic," says Sheah
Rarback, RD, a child nutrition expert and spokesperson for the
American Dietetic Assocoation.

How should you deal with a food jag? Continue to offer other foods,
but don't make a big deal about whether or not your child eats them.
"Food jags tend to go away on their own," Rarback says. Consult your
pediatrician, howeverm if your child's diet seems unbalanced for more
then a few weeks.

Some pediatricians may recommend vitamin supplements for toddlers.
"Children may go through long periods of time when they do not eat
properly," says Terry Hatch, MD, FAAP, a member of the American
Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) Commitee on Nutrition. "A multivitamin
that supplies no more than 100 percent of the RDA for children is
perfectly safe and appropriate." Of course, consult your pediatrician
before giving vitamin supplements to your child.

*Taken from an article by Mindy G. Hermann, RD, out of Spring/Summer
1993 issue of Healthy Kids - Birth to 3 magazine by the AAP* -Posted
for you by Michelle Bruce
Submitted By MICHELLE BRUCE   On   02-09-95

