Title: Tortillas de Maiz (Corn Pancakes)
Categories: So. america, Breakfast, Pcake/waffl
Yield: 4 servings
1 1/2 ts Salt
1/2 ts Black pepper; freshly ground
6 tb Butter
1/2 c  Sour cream
2 tb Parsley; fresh, finely
;chopped
1 c  Corn kernels, fresh; cut
;2 ears of corn or 1 cup
;thoroughly defrosted frozen
;corn kernels
1/3 c  Vegetable oil
8    Egg
2 tb Flour
MMMMM----------------SILVER XPRESS MAIL SYSTEM 5---------------------
With paper towels, pat the corn kernels completely dry.  In a heavy
8 to 10 inch skillet, heat the oil over moderate heat until a light
haze forms above it.  Drop in the corn and cook, stirring frequently,
for 10 minutes, or until the corn is golden brown.  Drain the corn on
a double thickness of paper towels.

Make the pancake batter in a large bowl, beating the eggs until
they are well combined and foamy, then beating in the flour, salt and
pepper. Melt 1 tablespoon of the butter in a heavy 5 to 6 inch
skillet or crepe pan set over moderate heat.  When the foam subsides,
pour in 1/4 cup of the batter. As soon as the edges begin to set,
sprinkle the tortilla with 2 tablespoons of corn.  Then with a fork,
push the edges of the tortilla toward the center of the pan and tip
it slightly to allow the uncooked batter to run out and cover the
exposed areas of the pan. When the tortilla is set and the bottom a
light brown, turn it over with a spatula and cook for 1 minute to
brown to the other side.

Slide the tortilla onto a heated platter and proceed similarly with
the remaining batter, stirring the batter before making each
tortilla. Add a teaspoon of the remaining butter to the pan for each
one. As they are done, stack the pancakes one on top of each other.
Serve them on individual plates, topped with a tablespoon of sour
cream and sprinkling of chopped fresh parsley.

70 of 108

Source: Time Life Series: Latin American Cooking

MMed by: earl.cravens@salata.com * Origin: Salata * Redondo Beach, CA
* 310-543-0439 V.32bis (1:102/125)
Submitted By MICHELLE BRUCE   On   02-04-95

