Title: Valentines Party Menu
Categories: Holiday, Information
Yield: 1 servings
-dinner that I attended
-some time ago (8
Years)
First you have to make code
-words up for the menu you
-are serving.  The
Following is a menu for the
The purpose is to give the guests the 'menu' with the code words on
it, and have them try to figure out what they mean.  Then they are to
put them in the order that they believe the meal should appear... 8-}
Then, once they have figured out and placed the code words in the
order they want (each person's will be different) you take their menu
back into the kitchen. Each person then gets served their choice of
what they believe the first course is...  depending on the order they
chose, they recieve their food in that order... they may end up
getting their dessert first, or worse yet, their main course or soup
before they get any eating utensils or napkins.. 8-} This is a blast
to be a guest at.. we spent almost 4 hours at this meal... and no one
is to get their second course until everyone has finished their
first...so if you happen to get you toothpick or napkin, and someone
else gets their main course, you have to sit there until they are
finished... 8-} hehehe... Here is the list of code words and what the
food was that corresponded to it... 1. SIAP (Sex in a Pan) 2. What
Lover's do (Spoon) 3. Envy   (Brocolli Soup) 4. Cupid's Arrow
(toothpick) 5. Gentlemen Prefer (Breats and thighs) 6. Lover's Prayer
(Lettuce alone) (salad) 7. Slick (Knife) 8. Heartbreak (Napkin) (to
wipe away your tears) 9. Staff of Life (bread + butter) 10. H2O Combo
(coffee) 11. Mineral (Perrier water) 12. Stuck on you  (Fork) 13. Hot
Lips (apperitif) 14. Sweetheart (candy) 15. Italian Crunch
(antipasto and cracker) 16. Wild thing (wild rice) 17. Pickled Rabbit
(marinated carrots) At the bottom of the menu, you can print, "Enjoy
your Dinner" Allow the guests about 10-15 minutes to figure out what
the code words mean and to put them in order.. then take the menu's
into the kitchen and start to serve them their choices... 8-} For the
breasts and thighs, we were served a cornish game hen.. 8-}  try
eating that with no knife, fork, or napkin!!! Or getting your bread
and butter with no knife yet.. 8-}... hehehe... Origin: From party I
attended as guest February 14, 1986 Shared by: Sharon Stevens, Feb/95.

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   02-13-95

