Title: Venison Steaks and Chops
Categories: Alcohol, Game, Fruit
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM----------------KEYWORDS: WILD GAME COOKING---------------------
MMMMM-----------------SOURCE: WILD GAME COOKING----------------------
Copyright & 1988 by Jonquil & Edward Barr, ISBN 0 9509182 5 3 First
published in Great Britain in 1988 by: Rosendale Press Ltd, 140
Rosendale Road London SE21 8LG Steaks and chops can be cut from the
leg or loin. The fillet steaks from young deer are delicious and
tender and, we find, do not really need to be marinated before
cooking. We prefer to quick fry them, rather than grill (broil), as
this is more controllable and keeps them very moist. Have fillet
steaks, or medallions cut about 2 cm/3/4 inch thick. Heat a very
heavy frying pan over a high heat until almost red hot, then quickly
add a mixture of butter and oil, allowing 7.5 ml/1/2 tbsp each for
every two steaks. If they are large steaks or chops add more butter
and oil, but not too much. Put the steaks in the pan. They will sear
fast. Using a palette knife, not a fork, turn them over to brown the
other sides. Then turn the heat down to medium and cook for a further
3-4 minutes on each side. Always undercook venison- serve a little
pink. Remove the steaks to a hot dish and keep very hot while you add
one of the mixtures below to the pan to make a sauce for the steaks.
1) 3 crushed juniper berries, 1 wineglass of red wine, and salt and
pepper to taste: boil, then simmer for a few minutes, working all the
residue from the steaks into the sauce. 2) A handful of seeded
grapes, cut in half, 15 ml/1 tbsp of brandy, 1 wineglass of red wine,
and salt and pepper to taste: boil and simmer, working in the
residue. 3) 15 ml/1 tbsp of Dijon mustard, 1/2 wineglass of red wine,
and salt and pepper to taste: boil and simmer, working in the
residue, then add a little single (light) cream. 4) 3-4 spring onions
(scallions), cut finely and cooked for a few seconds in a little
butter in the pan, add 1 wineglass of dry white wine added and
simmer, then stir in a little single (light) cream with salt and
pepper to taste. Cook large steaks or chops in the same way, but add
2 wineglasses of red wine, and salt and pepper to taste after the
steaks have been seared. Simmer for 15-20 minutes, according to the
size and taste.

Submitted By SALLIE KREBS   On   02-20-95

