Title: White Chocolate Orange Fruitcake
Categories: Chocolate, Cake/cookie, Fruit, Nuts/grains
Yield: 12 servings
1 ts Orange zest; grated
1/2 ts Cinnamon
8 oz White chocolate,
Imported; melt
& cool slightly
1 c  Flour
1 1/2 c  Pecans; chopped
Apricot halves
Pecans; chopped, for topping
4 c  Mixed fruit, dried
(see notes)
1 c  Grand marnier or
Other orange liqueur
4 oz Butter
1/2 c  Light brown sugar
-- packed
4    Eggs
1 ts Vanilla extract
MMMMM------------------WHITE CHOCOLATE TOPPING-----------------------
-cut up
2 ts Grand Marnier
1/3 c  Heavy cream
6 oz Imported white chocolate,
Recipe by: 365 Great Chocolate Desserts - ISBN 0-06-016537-5
Preparation Time: 5:00

1. In a medium bowl, combine dried fruits and 2/3 cup liqueur. Let
stand several hours or overnight.

2. Preheat oven to 325°F. Line a 9-inch springform pan with a round of
waxed paper cut to fit bottom. Butter bottom and sides of pan. Dust
with flour; tap out excess.

3. To make batter, in a large bowl, beat together butter and brown
sugar with an electric mixer on medium speed until light and fluffy,
1 to 2 mins. Beat in eggs, one at a time, beating well after each
addition. Beat in vanilla, orange zest, and cinnamon. Add white
chocolate and beat until mixture is light and fluffy, 3 to 4 mins.
Add 1 cup flour and beat until well blended.

4. Add remaining 2 Tbs flour and 1 1/2 cups chopped pecans to fruit
mixture and toss to coat well. Add to batter and mix thoroughly. Turn
batter into prepared pan and smooth top. Set springform pan in a
larger baking pan and add enough water to reach 1 inch up side of
springform pan.

5. Bake 1 hour and 20 to 30 mins, until a cake tester inserted in
center comes out clean. If top is browning too quickly, cover
springform with foil the last 1/2 hour of baking.

6. Remove springform pan from water bath. Sprinkle remaining 1/3 cup
liqueur over top of cake and let cool in pan. When completely cool,
run a sharp knife around edges to loosen. Remove springform side of
pan. Carefully remove cake from bottom of pan; peel off wax paper.
Wrap cake in plastic wrap; then wrap in foil. Refrigerate at least 2
to 3 days or up to 2 weeks before serving. For longer storage, freeze
cake.

7. An hour before serving, unwrap cake and frost evenly with White
Chocolate Topping. Garnish edge of top of cake with apricot halves.
Sprinkle additional chopped pecans over center of cake. Return to
refrigerator until serving time.

WHITE CHOCOLATE ICING:

1. In a 1-qt glass bowl, heat cream in microwave on High 30 to 45
seconds, or until very hot. Stir in white chocolate, mixing well.
Return to microwave and heat on Medium 30 to 60 seconds, or until
chocolate is melted when stirred. Stir in Grand Marnier.

2. Cover and refrigerate until glaze thickens to spreading
consistency.

