Title: Beef Pita, Greek Style #2
Categories: Ground beef, Beef, Greek
Yield: 12 servings
1/3 c  Burgundy Or Rose Wine
1    Egg
8 oz (1 pk) Cream Cheese,
Softened
1 c  Creamed Cottage Cheese
1/2 c  Crumbled Feta Cheese
1/2 c  Unsalted Butter, Melted *
8 oz (1/2 Pk) Phyllo Leaves **
1/4 c  Dry Bread Crumbs
2 lb Ground Beef
1 md Onion, Chopped
4 cl Garlic, Minced
1/2 lb Fresh Mushrooms, Sliced
1    Bay Leaf
1 1/4 ts Salt
1/2 ts Chili Powder
1/2 ts Cumin Powder
1/4 ts Cinnamon
8 oz (1 cn) Tomato Sauce
---------------------------------GARNISHES---------------------------------
Fresh Fruit Kabobs (opt.)
Parlsey Sprigs
12    Cherry Tomatos
Contributed to the echo by: Jean Hores Beef Pita, Greek Style

*  Unsalted margarine, melted, can also be used. ** Phyllo Leaves are Greek
pastry and they should be defrosted.

Combine ground beef, onion and garlic in a large frying-pan; cook, stirring
frequently until beef loses pink color. Pour off drippings. Add mushrooms,
bay leaf, salt, chili powder, cumin powder, and cinnamon; cook, stirring
frequently, until mushrooms are tender about 5 minutes. Stir in tomato
sauce and wine; cook, covered, 10 minutes, stirring occasionally.

Remove bay leaf. Cool while preparing cheese filling. Combine egg and cream
cheese in medium bowl, beat with electric mixer until smooth. Stir in
cottage and feta cheeses and blend. Brush 13 x 9-inch baking pan with
melted butter. Line pan with 1 sheet of pastry, fitting pastry to contour
of pan. (Pastry will come up over edges of pan.) Brush pastry with butter.
Layer with 3 more pastry sheets, brushing each with butter.

Sprinkle bread crumbs evenly over top. Spoon 1/5 of meat filling in layer
over crumbs and 1/5 of the cheese filling over meat. Place 1 pastry sheet
over cheese filling, crinkling to fit inside dimensions of pan; brush with
butter and layer with 1/5 of the meat and 1/5 to the cheese fillings.
Repeat with 3 more pastry sheets, crinkling each, brushing with butter and
topping with fillings. Turn bottom pastry ends up over filling. Place
remaining 8 pastry sheets smoothly over top, brushing each with butter.

Using spatula, tuck top pastry sheets around inside edges of pan. With
sharp knife, score top lightly in half lengthwise and sixths crosswise. (Do
not cut through.) Bake in moderate oven (350 degrees F.) 1 hour or until
top is golden brown. Cool at least 10 minutes before cutting along scored
lines. Place a cherry tomato on each of 12 small wooden picks and insert
pick in center of each serving. Garnish with parsley. Garnish individual
servings with fresh fruit kabobs, if desired. FRESH FRUIT KABOBS: To make
fresh fruit kabobs, place chunks of fresh pineapple, cantaloupe, whole
strawberries or other fruits in season on small wooden skewers.

Servings: 12

