Title: Grand Prize Winner Black Bean Tamale Pie (Greta Weingast)
Categories: Beans
Yield: 4 servings
2 ts Sugar
1/2 ts Salt
1    Egg, beaten
1/3 c  Milk
2 tb Vegetable oil
1 c  Canned corn, drained
4 oz Grated cheddar cheese
1/2 c  Onions, diced
1/3 c  Green peppers, diced
8 oz Ground turkey
8 oz Canned black beans, drained
8 oz Tomato sauce
1 pk Taco seasoning mix
1 c  Cornmeal
Preheat oven to 350ø.  Spray a 9" pie plate with nonstick cooking spray and
set aside.

Spray a medium sized skillet with nonstick cooking spray.  Saut‚ onions and
green pepper until tender, about 3-5 minutes.  Add turkey and cook until no
longer pink, breaking the meat up into small chunks as you cook. Stir in
beans, tomato sauce, and taco seasoning mix.  Set aside.

In a medium bowl, combine cornmeal, sugar, and salt.  In a separate small
bowl mix the egg, milk, and oil.  Add egg mixture to cornmeal mixture and
combine well.  Stir in drained corn.  Press the cornmeal mixture into the
prepared pie plate like a crumb crust.  Spoon the bean mixture on top of
the cornmeal "crust".  Bake 20 minutes.  Sprinkle the top of the pie with
grated cheese and bake an additional 5 minutes, or until the cheese is
melted.  Let stand 5 minutes before serving.

This recipe, by Greta Weingast of Benecia California, won the $10,000 Grand
Prize in the July 8, 1991 Lake to Lake/Chedarella Recipe Contest. The
original recipe of course calls for Chedarella rather than any old grated
cheddar cheese!
þ OLX 2.1 TD þ If you are a vegetarian, can you eat animal crackers?
Spicy Pinto Beans

by Gayle Hudson

4 cups pinto beans (or mixture of dry beans), washed and sorted 1 yellow
onion, chopped 1 (28 oz.) can whole (or crushed) tomatoes with juice 3
cloves garlic, sliced (or to taste) 2 ribs celery, sliced thin 2 smoked ham
hocks, or about 1 cup chopped ham 1 tbsp chili powder 1 tsp salt 1 tbsp
ground cumin 1 package instant chicken broth (seasoning), or enough chicken
stock to fill crock pot with ingredients 1/3 cup Pace Picante sauce
(medium), optional

Soak beans in water and the salt overnight in enough water to cover (keep
in mind that beans will expand and should not be exposed above water line).
In morning, drain, but do not rinse. Add remaining ingredients, stirring
well to combine thoroughly; picante sauce will give beans a spicy, hot
flavor. Add enough water or chicken stock to fill to top. Do not use
instance chicken seasoning if you use chicken stock.

Bring to boil in crock pot (this takes at least one hour at highest
settings...to speed up process, heat water/stock in microwave, then return
to pot), then reduce temperature to 350 for the day.

To serve in the evening, I usually start the beans at 6 a.m., bring to boil
by 7:30 a.m. and cook until 6 p.m. Stir again thoroughly and serve over
rice or cornbread. Also very good when reheated.

Jim Middleton
Unexpected end of recipe Converted by MMCONV vers. 1.20

