Title: Sm Pocket Spreads
Categories: Spreads
Yield: 6 servings
-VIVIAN THIELE NRHF19C
The following recipes are additional spreads that can be used in place of
butter on the outside of bread/dough when making pockets.

Mayo Spread: 1/4 cup real Mayonnaise; 1/4 tsp. onion powder; 1/4 tsp.
celery salt.  Stir to combine.  Enough for 8 slices of bread. Mayo spread
will enhance the flavor of most foods except sweets. Especially good on
sandwiches with eggs, cheese, ham and seafood or vegetable pockets.

Curried Mayonnaise: 1/4 cup mayonnaise; 1 tsp. mild Indian curry powder.
Stir to combine - enough for 8 slices of bread.  Curry is a nice flavor
accompaniment with beef, chicken, lamb, shrimp and vegetables.

Maple butter: 1/4 soft butter or margarine; 1/2 tsp. maple flavoring. Stir
to combine. Enough for 8 slices. Use maple butter for pockets. Use with
pork, ham or sweets.

Vanilla butter: 1/4 soft butter or margarine; 1/2 tsp vanilla extract. Stir
to combine - enough for 8 slices of bread.  Vanilla butter enhances flavor
and has an enticing aroma while cooking.

Almond Butter: 1/4 soft butter or margarine; 1/4 tsp almond extract. Stir
to combine - enough for 8 slices bread.  Use with fruit pie filling or
other sweets.

Herbed butter: 1/4 cup soft butter or margarine; 1/4 tsp herbs (combine
basil, thyme, rosemary and tarragon).  Stir to combine. Spread on one side
of 8 bread slices or other bread products used for pockets. This taste
especially good with meats, cheese and vegetables.

Garlic butter: 1/4 cup soft butter or margarine; 1 clove garlic, crushed.
Stir to combine.  Enough for 8 bread slices.  Use with any eat or vegetable
filling.

Honey butter: 1/4 cup soft butter or margarine; 1 tblsp. honey. Stir to
combine.  This is enough to spread 8 slices of bread. Because the honey
promotes browning, use this on pockets which only have to brown and heat
through.  If used on egg sandwiches,etc... the bread may over brown before
the egg finishes cooking.

Lemon butter: 1/4 cup soft butter or margarine; finely grated rind of 1
lemon (about 1/2tsp.).  Stir to combine.  This is enough to spread 8 slices
of bread.  The fresh lemon brings out the flavor of fruit filling and
seafood fillings.

