Title: HOMEMADE TOMATO SAUCE
Categories: Other sauce
Yield: 1 Servings
8    1-pint canning jars
15 lb Tomatoes
2 c  Chopped onions
1 c  Green bell peppers --
Chopped
1 c  Celery -- diced
2 tb Brown sugar
2    Garlic cloves -- minced
1 tb Fresh parsley -- minced
1 tb Fresh basil
1 tb Oregano
1 1/2 tb Non-iodized salt -- * see
Note
1/2 ts Black pepper
* Kosher salt is the best to use for canning.

1. Prepare jars following manufacturer's directions for sterilizing.
2. Use 12-15 pound of fresh, ripe tomatoes. If you want them peeled,
dip in boiling water briefly until skins split. Rinse in cold water.
Remove cores and any green spots. To reduce cooking time, chop
tomatoes. Put into a large, heavy pan. It is very important to use a
heavy pan to prevent tomatoes from sticking and scorching. Simmer the
tomatoes for 2 hours, stirring frequently. 3. Add the remaining
ingredients and simmer overnight or until the sauce has cooked down
by half. To prevent sauce from sticking, fill a large roasting pan
with the sauce, set it in a 250-degree oven, and let it cook until it
is as thick as you want it; stir occasionally as it cooks. The sauce
will not stick using this method. If you want a smooth sauce, or if
you have not peeled the tomatoes, you can sieve the sauce or use a
blender or food processor to make it smooth. 4. When sauce is the
consistency you desire, pour it into hot jars, leaving 1/4-inch of
head space. Adjust lids. Process in a pressure canner with 10 pounds
pressure, 20 minutes for pints, 25 for quarts.

Yield: 8 pints.

NOTE: See "Tomato Jam" in this cookbook if you make this using a
boiling water bath instead of a pressure canner. Omit the onion,
green peppers and celery if using water bath; 45 minutes in a boiling
water bath is then sufficient. You can freeze this sauce, including
the onion, green pepper and celery if you prefer. This recipe is
given using all three methods of preserving this sauce because many
people are going back to the old ways of canning produce. If
freezing, freeze in proportions to use all at one time in a recipe.
Usually 1 quart of sauce will make a recipe for 4 to 6 people.

: Jo Anne Merrill
Recipe By

From: Big Flavors Of The Hot Sun By Chr

