Title: HONEY BARBECUED CHICKEN
Categories: Barbecue
Yield: 8 Servings
BASTING SAUCE:
6 tb Honey, 8 tb if necessary
3 tb Tarragon or white wine
Vinegar
1 ts Curry powder
1 ts Dried tarragon
2 x  Chickens, each 3 lbs
Salt and pepper
In bowl, combine honey, vinegar, curry powder and tarragon. Remove
grids from barbecue. Place one or two shallow drip pans - filled with
water or stock (you can also add a splash of white wine on the lava
rocks. Preheat barbecue to high setting. Arrange chickens on spit,
making sure they are evenly balanced. Brush with honey basting sauce
and install rotisserie on barbecue with drip pans directly
underneath. Barbecue at high setting for 10 minutes. Reduce heat to
medium and roast chickens, with lid down, for about 1 1/2 to 2 hours,
basting every 30 minutes with sauce, until thermometer inserted in
thickest part of thigh registers 185'F. Remove from barbecue, season
with salt and pepper, and tent with foil. Let stand 10 minutes
before   carving. Serves six to eight. INDIRECT COOKING METHOD FOR
GAS BARBECUES WITH TWO BURNERS: Place a shallow metal or foil pan
(not necessary to add water)  under one side of grill to catch
drippings. Preheat both sides of barbecue on high setting. Tie wings
and legs of chicken with string; brush lightly with oil. Place
chicken breast-side down on hot grill and cook for two minutes. Turn
chichen on its side and grill for two minutes. (A long-handled spoon
inserted in cavity makes it easy to turn). Turn on back and grill for
two minutes; continue to grill chicken on other side for two minutes
until browned all over. Place chicken, breast-side up, on the side of
barbecue with drip pan underneath; turn off burner on that side.
Brush liberally with sauce and roast chicken with lid down for about
90 minutes, brushing occasionally with sauce, until chicken is done.
(Indirect heat from other side of barbecue will cook the chicken).
This method also works well with beef, pork, or lamb roasts. IF YOU
HAVE A CHARCOAL BARBECUE WITH A LID: Move the hot coals to the sides
of barbecue and place a drip pan in centre. Place chichen or roast on
grill with drip pan dirctly underneath. Cook with lid down and use a
meat thermometer to gauge when foods are cooked.

~ - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

:
Recipe By

