Title: HONEY ALMOND WHOLE WHEAT BREAD
Categories: Breads
Yield: 1 Servings
1 c  Whole blanched almonds
2    Cakes or packets (6 0z ea)
Active yeast
1 c  Warm water (80-85 degrees)
1/4 c  Packed brown sugar
1/3 c  Honey
2    Eggs, beaten
1 ts Salt
1/2 c  Butter, melted
2 ts Grated orange rind
1/2 c  Buttermilk or sour milk
2 c  Whole wheat flour, unsifted
2 1/2 c  White flour, unsifted
Brown sugar filling
Chop almonds. Note, that other nuts can be substituted. Crumble yeast
if in cake form) or packets and add into warm water and stir until
dissolved. Stir in brown sugar and honey. Stir in eggs, salt, melted
butter, orange rind and buttermilk (or sour milk). Mix all flours
with all but 2 tablespoons of nuts; stir into liquid mixture. Let
this very soft dough rest for 10 minutes. Scrape dough onto board or
pastry cloth dusted with about 1/2 cup of additional all-purpose
flour. Knead for about 5 minutes, working in flour on the board,
until dough is elastic but still soft and tender. Place dough in
greased bowl. Cover with plastic wrap and let rise in a warm place
about 2 1/2 hours, or until doubled in bulk. (A turned off oven with
the light on is a good place.) Turn dough onto floured board again;
gently pat into a 12x10 inch rectangle. Sprinkle Brown sugar filling
over dough and roll up from the 10 inch side. Fold two ends under to
make a ball-shaped loaf and place on a greased baking sheet. Brush
with melted butter. Fold a 36 inch piece of foil to make a 2 inch
wide strip 36 inches long. Fasten with paper clips into a ring and
set ring around the dough. Cover loosely with plastic wrap and let
rise in a warm oven until doubled in bulk, about 1 hour. Sprinkle
loaf with remaining chopped nuts, (and some butter and brown sugar if
you like) and bake at 350F for 1 hour or until golden brown. Makes
one 3 3/4 pound loaf. Cut into halves or quarters and freeze
separately, if you like. BROWN SUGAR FILLING: Mix 1/2 cup brown
sugar, packed, with 1 Tablespoon cinnamon and 2 Tablespoons wheat
germ. I also add some finely chopped nuts.

