Title: HOT & SOUR SHRIMP WITH WATERCRESS & WALNUTS
Categories: Fish
Yield: 1 Servings
1 lb Large uncooked shrimp,
-peeled, deveined,
-butterflied
4 tb Dry Sherry
1 tb Grated peeled fresh ginger
1/2 c  Chicken stock or canned
-broth
2 tb Soy sauce
2 tb Catsup. [See note. S.C.]
1 tb Cornstarch
1 tb Rice vinegar or white wine
-vinegar
1 tb Sugar
1 ts Oriental sesame oil
1/4 ts Cayenne pepper
6 tb Peanut oil
2 tb Chopped walnuts
3 bn Watercress, trimmed
2 md Bell peppers, cut into
-1-inch squares
2    Garlic cloves, minced
8    Green onions, cut
-diagonally into
-1-inch-long pieces
This excellent recipe is a relatively quick and easy dish worthy of
gracing any restaurant's menu.  My roommate fixed it last night for
three people. It disappeared almost immediately. Although it says
that it serves four I'd say that it's about two healthy servings. Or
maybe that's just because I'm such a glutton. Spinach would be an
excellent substitution for the watercress that the recipe calls for.
Any kind of nut could be used instead of walnuts.  And rice of
course...

A light marinade of Sherry and ginger flavors the shrimp, which are
stir-fried with ted bell peppers and green onions. Watercress makes a
colorful bed for the shrimp. Offer lemon iced tea to go with the
meal. [Or any good beer.  S.C.]

Combine shrimp, 2 tablespoons Sherry and grated ginger in large bowl.
Cover and refrigerate for 30 minutes. Mix remaining 2 tablespoons
Sherry, chicken stock, soy sauce, catsup, cornstarch, rice vinegar,
sugar, sesame oil and cayenne pepper in small bowl.

Heat 2 teaspoons peanut oil in wok or heavy large skillet over high
heat. Add walnuts and stir-fry for 1 minute. Transfer walnuts to
plate using slotted spoon. Add watercress to wok and stir-fry until
just wilted, about 1 minute.  Divide watercress among plates. Add 2
teaspoons peanut oil, bell peppers and garlic to wok and stir-fry for
1 minute. Add remaining 2 teaspoons peanut oil, shrimp mixture and
onions and stir- fry for 1 minute. Stir stock mixture, add to wok and
cook sauce until clear and thick, stirring frequently, 2 minutes.

Spoon sauce and shrimp over watercress.  Sprinkle with walnuts and
serve.

NOTE:  I used Jufran sauce rather than catsup.  Jufran is a Philippino
sauce that's looks and tastes much like catsup. It's made from
bananas and other stuff, however and has a more complex and
interesting taste. I use it in place of catsup in many recipes as
well as on hamburgers, hot dogs and corn dogs.  It comes in both mild
and hot forms. The mild is not too hot++somewhat like a spicy catsup.
The hot stuff is much hotter, although not intolerably so. If you use
this, be prudent about how much cayenne you use, at least the first
time until you can see how they balance out.

Makes four servings; about 265 calories per serving.

Bon Appetit, February, 1991.

Posted by Stephen Ceideburg; January 20 1991.

