Title: HOT 'N SOUR SOUP
Categories: Soups, Ethnic
Yield: 4 Servings
4    Dried Chinese mushrooms,
-1 to 1 1/2 in dia
2    Squares, 3 inches each,
-fresh
-Chinese bean curd, about
-1/2 inch thick
1/2 c  Canned bamboo shoots
1/4 lb Boneless pork
1 qt Chicken stock, fresh or
-canned
1 ts Salt
1    Scallion, including the
-green top, finely chopped
1 tb Soy sauce
1/4 ts Ground white
-pepper
2 tb White vinegar
2 tb Cornstarch*
-mixed with 3 tablespoons
-cold water
1    Egg, lightly beaten
2 ts Sesame seed oil
* if soup is not thick enough, add 2 more spoons of cornstarch (mixed
into cold water) into the soup PREPARE AHEAD: 1. In a small bowl,
cover the mushrooms with 1/2 cup of warm water and let them soak for
30 minutes. Discard the water.  With a cleaver or knife, cut away and
discard the tough stems of the mushrooms, and shred the caps by
placing one at a time on a chopping board. Cut them horizontally into
paper-thin slices, and then into thin strips. 2.  Drain the pieces of
bamboo shoots and bean curd, and rinse them in cold water. Shred them
as fine as the mushrooms. 3. With a cleaver or sharp knife, trim the
pork of all fat. Then shred it, too, by slicing the meat as thin as
possible and cutting the slices into narrow strips about 1-1/2 to 2
inches long. 4.  Have the above ingredients, stock, salt, soy sauce,
pepper, vinegar, cornstarch mixture, egg, sesame seed oil and
scallions within easy reach. TO COOK: Combine in a heavy 3-quart
saucepan the stock, salt, soy sauce, mushrooms, bamboo shoots and
pork. Bring to a boil over high heat, then immediately reduce the
heat to low, cover the pan and simmer for 3 minutes. Drop in the bean
curd and the pepper and the vinegar. Bring to a boil again. Give the
cornstarch mixture a stir to recombine it and pour it into the soup.
Stir for a few seconds until the soup thickens, then slowly pour in
the beaten egg, stirring gently all the while. Remove the soup from
the heat and ladle it into a tureen or serving bowl. Stir in the
sesame seed oil and sprinkle the top with scallions. Serve at once.

