Title: HOT CROSS BUNS WITH CREAM CHEESE FROSTING
Categories: Breads, Easter, Newspaper
Yield: 18 Buns
5 c  All-purpose flour
2 pk Active dry yeast
1/2 c  Sugar
1 ts Salt
1 ts Ground cinnamon
1/4 ts Ground cardamom
1/4 ts Cloves
1/4 ts Nutmeg
1 1/4 c  Milk
1/2 c  Butter (1 stick)
2    Eggs, beaten
3/4 c  Currants or raisins
1/3 c  Candied orange peel (opt)
1    Egg yolk mixed with
2 tb Water
MMMMM-------------------CREAM CHEESE FROSTING------------------------
3 oz Cream cheese, softened
1 c  Confectioner's sugar
1 ts Milk
Combine 2 cups of flour, yeast, sugar, salt and spices in a large
mixing bowl. In a separate bowl, heat milk and butter to very warm
(120 to 130ø). Add to flour. Beat on medium speed of mixer for 1
minute. Add eggs. Beat another minute. Stir in currants, orange peel
and enough remaining flour to make dough easy to handle. Turn dough
out onto lightly floured surface and knead until smooth and elastic,
about 5 minutes, adding additional flour as needed. Place in a
buttered bowl, turning to butter top. Cover; let rise in warm place
until doubled in bulk, about 1 hour. Punch down dough; turn onto
lightly floured surface. Divide dough in half; divide each half into
9 pieces. Form each piece into a smooth round ball. Place balls of
dough in two buttered 8-inch square baking pans. Cover; let rise in
warm place until doubled in bulk, about 45 minutes to 1 hour. Brush
lightly with egg yolk mixture. Bake rolls in preheated 375ø oven, 20
to 25 minutes, or until golden brown. Remove from pans. Cool on wire
rack. Prepare Cream Cheese Frosting. Drizzle frosting across the top
of each bun in the shape of a cross. Makes 18 buns. CREAM CHEESE
FROSTING: Beat cream cheese and sugar in a bowl until smooth. Add up
to 1 teaspoon of milk for drizzling consistency.

Note: Hot cross buns are a traditional Easter food. You can bake them
in advance and freeze unfrosted. When ready to serve, reheat
foil-wrapped buns in a 325ø oven. Drizzle cream cheese frosting in
the shape of a cross over the buns after reheating.

From the files of Roberta Thompson Source: The News-Enterprise
Elizabethtown KY; Food section; recipe from: American Dairy
Association

