Title: HOT PUMPKIN PRALINE SOUFFLE W/CREME ANGLAISE
Categories: Desserts
Yield: 6 Servings
1 qt Milk
2 ts Vanilla
12    Egg yolks
1 c  Sugar
1 c  Flour
1/2 c  Pumpkin puree
1/2 c  Praline paste
1 c  Egg whites
MMMMM-----------------------CREME ANGLAISE----------------------------
6    Egg yolks
1/2 c  Sugar
2 c  Half-and-half
1 pn Salt
1    Vanilla bean split/scraped
-(or 2 ts vanilla extract)
Place milk and vanilla in a heavy pot and bring to a boil. In mixing
bowl, place yolks and sugar; beat with an electric mixer until pale
yellow (approximately 10 minutes). Add flour, and pour half of milk
over egg mixture and beat. Pour egg mixture back into rest of milk
and return to stove. Heat until thick, stirring constantly. Strain
and chill. When cold, stir in pumpkin puree and praline paste.

To make souffle: Butter and sugar individual ramekins. In a bowl,
place 1 cup souffle base mixture. In bowl of mixer, beat egg whites
until thick and creamy. With a rubber spatula, fold egg whites into
base mixture. Pour into prepared ramekins and bake in oven at 375
degrees for approximately 10 minutes (until puffed and set). Remove
from oven and sprinkle tops with powdered sugar; serve. Break a hole
in center of souffle and spoon creme anglaise into  souffle.

CREME ANGLAISE Place egg yolks and sugar in bowl of electric mixer
and beat on  high speed until mixture is pale and forms ribbons
(approximately 10 minutes).

In meantime, place half-and-half, salt, and split vanilla bean in a
heavy-bottom pot. Bring cream to a boil and remove from stove. Pour
half of boiled cream over egg mixture while beating on low speed.
Then pour egg mixture back into cream and return to stove.  On low
heat, stirring constantly with a wooden spoon, heat until mixture
lightly thickens (mixture should coat the back of a wooden spoon; be
careful not to let it get like an egg scrambled). Remove from Stove.
Strain and chill.

Servings: 6.

By chef Peter Kelly of Xaviar's in Piermont, N.Y.

printed in The Record, Northern New Jersey, November 15, 1995

