Title: CREOLE CHRISTMAS CAKE
Categories: Cakes, Holiday
Yield: 1 Cake
3 tb Rum
3 tb Brandy
3 tb Cherry brandy
3 tb Cointreau
3 tb Water
1 1/2 ts Angostura bitters
1/2 ts Ground cinnamon
1/2 ts Ground nutmeg
1/2 ts Ground cloves
1/2 ts Salt
1 1/2 ts Vanilla extract
1 tb Molasses sugar
225 g  Sultanas
225 g  Raisins
225 g  Currants
100 g  Stoned no-soak prunes;
-chopped
50 g  Glace cherries; chopped
100 g  Mixed candied peel
50 g  Almonds; chopped
50 g  Pecans; chopped
250 g  Self-raising flour
250 g  Demerara sugar
250 g  Butter; room temperature
5 ea Eggs (size 1)
This very rich cake from the West Indies is ideal for those who
prefer not to ice their Christmas cakes. Indeed, icing is not
recommended. Just tie a brightly coloured ribbon round it and you
have a real feast of cake. The fruit and nuts are soaked for a week
before baking.

Directions: Six to eight days before you intend to bake the cake,
measure out the rum, brandy, cherry brandy, cointreau, water and
bitters into a large saucepan. Then add the spices, sugar, fruit and
nuts. Stir the ingredients together and heat them over a very low
heat until the liquid is just moving - DO NOT LET IT BOIL. Simmer for
about 15 minutes. Tip the mixture into a mixing bowl or other glass
or china container and allow it to cool completely. Cover the bowl
with a double layer of clingfilm and place in the refrigerator or a
very cool place. Stir the mixture from time to time during the next
few days.

Six to eight days later, preheat the oven to Gas 1, 275 F., 140 C.
Cream the butter and sugar together and fold in the flour and beaten
eggs. Add the fruit mixture a little at a time until it is evenly
blended. Spoon the cake mixture into the prepared tin, level the top
and bake in the preheated oven for about 3 1/2 to 4 hours. If you
think the cake is becoming too brown, place a double thickness of
greaseproof paper over the top of it as protection. When the cake is
quite cold, wrap it in greaseproof paper first then either place it
well in a plastic cake box or wrap it in silver foil.

This cake will keep for a few weeks. Taken from Christmas baking
magazine.

