Title: CREOLE GUMBO
Categories: Creole, Gumbo, Ceideburg 2
Yield: 1 Servings
3 sl Bacon
4    Big onions, chopped fine
4    Garlic cloves, minced fine
2    Bay leaves
2 tb Finely minced green pepper
1 ts Finely chopped fresh thyme
-or 1/2 teaspoon dried
1 1/2 ts Sugar
Salt, freshly ground black
-pepper to taste
2 lb Fresh okra, cut in 1/2-inch
-lengths
2 tb Oil
1 lg Ham bone, halved or
-quartered
1/2 lb Chicken wings
1 lb Boneless veal stew meat,
-cut in 1-inch cubes
1/3 c  Chopped fresh parsley
4    Ripe tomatoes, peeled, cored
1/2 ts Tabasco sauce
1/4 c  Worcestershire sauce
Juice 1/2 lemon
2 lb Fresh raw shrimp, shelled,
-deveined
2 lb Crab meat
2 c  Fresh oysters with liquor
1 ts File powder
Freshly cooked rice
Cut the bacon pieces in half and put in a large soup kettle. Place
over low heat and cook bacon until it gives up it's fat, then remove,
drain on paper towels and set aside.

Add the onions to the bacon drippings in the kettle and cook over
moderate heat until golden brown, stirring all the while. Add garlic,
bay leaves, green pepper, thyme, sugar, salt and pepper and cook
slowly until green pepper is wilted.  Add cut okra to the kettle and
cook for 5 minutes, stirring.

Heat the oil in a large skillet and add the ham bone, chicken wings
and veal cubes and cook over medium heat, stirring to brown meats on
all sides. Pour off any excess fat ant add the meats and bones to the
kettle.

Pour a cup of water into the skillet and use a wooden spoon to loosen
all the brown particles that cling to the bottom and sides. Mix and
pour this into the kettle. Add the parsley, tomatoes, Tabasco and
Worcestershire sauces and lemon juice.  Add the shrimp, crab, oysters
(with their liquid) and reserved bacon. Add enough water to cover all
ingredients, bring the gumbo to a boil and turn off the heat. Stir in
the file powder and stir to mix but do not boil again. To serve,
spoon a mound of cooked rice into the middle of each soup plate, then
ladle the gumbo around the rice.

San Francisco Chronicle, date unknown.

Posted by Stephen Ceideburg; February 27 1991.

