Title: CROCKPOT-BARBEQUE BEEF OR PORK
Categories: Bbq, Beef, Meats, Crockpot
Yield: 24 Servings
MMMMM-----------------------JONI'S KITCHEN----------------------------
4 lb To 6 lb Beef or pork or
-a combination of both.
2 pk Onion soup mix
2    12 oz Bot's Chili Sauce
1/2 c  Brown sugar:more or less
1/4 c  Black molasses';about
2 tb Worcestershire sauce;or less
4 c  -water;to cover meat.
In Crockpot on High, place cut up pieces of Beef and pork if you want
to combine them, or just one or the other. I use what ever beef is on
sale trim as much fat off as I can. Cut in large chunks put in Crock
with 1 to 2 packages of onion soup mix. I usually use a good 4 to 6
lb roast we like to freeze it. Use enough water to cover. You can add
additional onions and celery to give it more flavor. And cook until
fork tender. Remove from Crock, put meat on platter to cool, and save
a couple of cups of the juice it was cooked in. Put into the crockpot
the Chili Sauce, brown sugar, Molasses(optional) Worcestershire to
taste. I do not like it too hot so I don't use more than a couple of
tablespoons. Now take your meat on a board and start to shred it with
a fork and paring knife, how ever it is easy for you, I don't like it
to fine so do not use my processor. Just cut in pieces and shred, OK.
Now put it back in crock and add enough of the juice it was cooked
in, with the onions from the mix also, it adds to the flavor.Add just
enough juice to make it moist, save some of the juice for as it cooks
on simmer you may have to add some more. If you use for a cookout,
you can keep it plugged in, and keep a check for moistness, when it
gets a little dry just add some more juice. I use hamburger rolls. or
bakery Hamburger rolls, or Kaiser rolls. What ever you prefer. It
goes a long way. Left over's I put in little freezer bags or in the
margarine containers,1/2 lb size, and freeze. Just enough for two
sandwich's for lunch. This is from memory, so if you have a question
or doubt<G> ask away. From Joni's Kitchen For Diabetics' I take a
small portion and just add everything but the sugar and use Twin
Brown sugar. Does very well.

