Title: CROISSANTS (KH)
Categories: Breads
Yield: 1 Servings
1 c  Milk
1 tb Oil
1 tb Sugar
1/2 ts Salt
1 pk Compressed or active dry
Yeast
1/4 c  Warm water (105 to 115)
2 3/4    To 3 cups all-purpose flour
1 c  (1/2 pound) butter,
Softened
1    Egg yolk
1 tb Milk
Heat 1 cup milk, oil, sugar, and salt in a saucepan; cool to lukewanm.
Dissolve yeast in warm water in a large bowl. Add milk mixture and 1
cup flour; beat until smooth. Stir in enough remaining flour to make
a soft dough. Turn dough onto a floured surface; continue to work in
flour until dough can be kneaded. Knead until smooth and elastic
(about 5 minutes). Shape dough into a ball and place in an oiled
bowl; turn to oil top of dough. Cover; let rise in a warm place until
double in bulk (about 45 minutes). Punch dough down. Roll out on
floured surface to form a rectangle about l/4 inch thick. Cut butter
in slices (just soft enough to spread but not melted). Spread over
center one-third section of rectangle. Fold each extending side of
butter, pressing together the open edges to seal. Roll out again
until rectangle is 3/8 inch thick. Turn dough occasionally, flouring
surface lightly to prevent sticking. Fold in thirds again to make a
squarish rectangle. Roll dough and fold again in the same manner.
Wrap dough in waxed paper or foil; chill 30 minutes. If at any time
dough oozes butter and becomes sticky while rolling, chill until
butter is more firm. Roll and fold again 2 more times exactly as
directed before. Chill dough again another 30 minutes. Roll dough
into a rectangle about 1/8 inch thick. Cut into strips 6 inches wide.
Cut triangles out of each strip to measure about 6x8x6 inches. Roll
up each triangle of dough from a 6-inch edge, pinching tip to seal.
Shape each roll into a crescent. Place, point down, 1 1/2 inches
apart on ungreased baking sheet. Cover; let rise until double in bulk
(30 to 45 minutes). Brush each roll with mixture of egg yolk and 1
tablespoon milk. Bake at 425F 15 minutes, or until brown. Remove from
baking sheet and cool on wire rack. Serve warm.

