Title: CROQUETAS DE JAMON (HAM CROQUETTES)
Categories: Appetizers, Cuba, Update
Yield: 45 Servings
1/4 lb (1 stick) salted butter
7 ts All-purpose flour
2 c  Milk, scalded
2 c  Finely chopped cooked ham
1 ts Salt
1/2 ts Freshly ground black pepper
1/2 ts Freshly grated nutmeg
3 ts Fresh lime juice, plus
-extra for sprinkling
1 tb Finely chopped fresh parsley
2 c  Very fine bread crumbs
1 lg Egg, lightly beaten
Peanut or vegetable oil for
-frying
1 ea In a large skillet over low
-heat, melt the butter.
-When it begins to
foam, blend in the flour, then gradually whisk in the milk until the
mixture thickens into a smooth paste. Do not overcook or it will get
lumpy. Add the ham, salt, pepper, nutmeg, lime juice, and parsley,
and continue cooking over low heat for 2 minutes, stirring constantly
with a wooden spoon. Remove from the heat. 2. Spoon the mixture into
a pan or platter and let it cool thoroughly. (After it has reached
room temperature, it can be refrigerated.) 3. Sprinkle a light layer
of bread crumbs on a work surface. Scoop up 1 tablespoon of the
cooled ham mixture and shape it into a cylinder about 1 1/2 inches
long and 3/4 inch in diameter. Dip it in the beaten egg and then in
the crumbs, and repeat with the remaining mixture, renewing the
crumbs when necessary. (The recipe can be prepared to this point one
day ahead of time and refrigerated overnight.) 4. Preheat the oven to
250 degrees. In a large, heavy-bottomed skillet or deep fryer over
medium-high heat, heat 2 to 5 inches of oil to 375 degrees, or until
a drop of the mixture sizzles when it touches the oil, and fry 5 to 6
croquettes at a time until golden on all sides, turning with a
slotted spoon. Do not fry too many at once, or the oil temperature
will fall and they will be soggy rather than crisp. Transfer them to
a paper-towel-lined platter to drain, keep warm in the oven until you
have finished frying the rest, and serve sprinkled with fresh lime
juice. Makes 45 To 50 Croquettes Mary Urrutia Randelman "Memories of
a Cuban Kitchen" (Macmillan, 1992) CROQUETAS DE JAMON Ham Croquettes

