Title: KATHY PITTS' ENCHILADA SAUCE
Categories: Mexican, Sauces
Yield: 1 Text file  Making your own isn't all that difficult.  Time
consuming and sinus clearing, but not difficult.

Don't have a recipe (when you're around here long
enough, you'll know that I almost NEVER have a
recipe), but I can tell you how to make it.

Start with about 6 dried ancho chiles, 6 dried pasilla
chiles.

Place the chiles on a flat baking sheet and roast in a
preheated 350 degree oven until the chiles become
fragrant (about 15 minutes).  Do not allow them to
scorch.  NOTE:  You might want to open all the windows
while doing this, the fumes will definately clear your
sinuses.

Remove the chiles from the oven and cool slightly.
Slit open and remove the stems, seeds and veins.
Place the remainder in a bowl, and cover with boiling
water.  Allow to sit for about 30 minutes.

Meanwhile, heat a can of chicken broth, to which you
have added a small minced onion, 1-2 cloves of minced
garlic, and a generous pinch of Mexican oregano and
cumin.

Simmer until the onion and garlic is very soft.

Meanwhile, remove the chiles from the liquid, and
force through a fine sieve.  Do not yield to
temptation and whirl this mixture through a blender.
The chile peels tend to be bitter, and will transfer
this bitterness to the sauce.  Discard the peels, and
any remaining seeds, but be sure to force all the
chile pulp through the sieve.  Scrape the chile puree
(called a caribe) into the chicken broth mixture.

Pour this mixture into a blender or food processor and
process until smooth.  Return to the pan, and simmer,
adjusting seasonings (it may need more cumin, will
need salt) to taste.  If the mixture isn't hot enough
for your taste, add pure ground chile peppers and/or
hot sauce to taste.

Continue simmering over low heat (careful, it scorches
like crazy), stirring frequently, until the mixture is
thick enough to coat a spoon.

For a quickie version of this, you can always opt for
the classic Tex- Mex Chili Gravy.  Melt 2 tbsp. of
lard in a frying pan, and add 2 tbsp. of flour, and as
much chili powder (the stuff that contains ground
chiles, cumin, oregano, sometimes salt, and
God-knows-what-else) as your conscience allows (1/4
cup is a good starting point.) Cook the
flour/fat/chile mixture until a thick paste forms. Do
not allow it to brown. Now wisk in enough chicken
broth to make a medium-thick sauce.

Personally, I think this results in an enchilada sauce
that tastes remarkably like the enchiladas in frozen
TV dinners, but some folks like it.

Kathy in Bryan, TX

