Title: KATHY PITTS' NEW MEXICO CHILI
Categories: Chili, Pork
Yield: 1 Batch  I don't have a real recipe for New Mexico-style chile,
although I do make it occasionally when I manage to
drag home more fresh Anaheim or Poblano chiles than I
can dispose of otherwise.  (Kroger's sometimes has BIG
bags of them for 99 cents a bag ;-)

What I do is first roast the chiles (either in the
broiler or -- better -- over charcoal).  The number of
chiles I use depends on the size/heat of the chiles,
and can range from 2-3 to 10 or more.  If the chiles
are really hot (it happens sometimes, even with
Anaheims), I'll also add 3-4 roasted green bell
peppers to give the dish the required pepper taste
without rendering it inedible by anyone without an
asbestos esophagus.

After the chiles have cooled a bit, I peel and seed
them, and cut them into coarse dice.  I sometimes (not
always) will also roast/peel 5-6 tomatoes to place in
the chiles, but tomatoes are optional in this dish,
and I usually don't use 'em.

Next, cut up 3-4 pounds of lean boneless pork (beef is
sometimes used, but isn't as good in this dish, IMHO,
and I would imagine lamb would be very good here
indeed).

Coat the meat in seasoned flour, and brown it in hot
lard.  Remove from the pan and set aside.  Toss a
couple of chopped onions into the pot, along with a
clove or two of garlic.  When the onions are golden, I
add enough flour to make a roux, and cook until the
roux is light brown.

I then add chicken broth to make a fairly thin gravy,
the pork, chiles, tomatoes (if used), and season the
dish with cumin and Mexican oregano.

Simmer for a couple of hours, until the pork is tender
and the flavors have blended.  The end dish should
have a pronounced green chile/pepper flavor and be the
consistancy of a thick stew.  It's very good by
itself, or as a filling for burritos/soft tacos, and
is wonderful reheated the next morning and served as a
side dish with scrambled eggs for breakfast. Wes, for
some bizarre reason, likes it over rice...

Sorry for the inexact recipe/directions.  I learned to
make this dish from an ex-neighbor who was or mixed
Hispanic/Native American ancestry, and never QUITE got
around to rendering her directions into a real recipe.
(She served the dish with fry bread, and a pot of
white beans on the side -- have no idea whether this
was traditional or simply the way she liked it.)

Kathy in Bryan, TX

