Title: KHACHAPURI (GEORGIAN CHEESE PIE)
Categories: Russian, Cheese/eggs, Vegetables
Yield: 8 Servings
2 1/2 c  Unbleached All Purpose Flour
3/4 ts Salt
1 lg Egg
3 tb Vegetable Oil
1/2 c  Club Soda; Or More If Needed
-, At Room Temperature
12 tb Unsalted (Sweet) Butter;
- 1 1/2 Sticks, Melted
MMMMM----------------------RED BEAN FILLING---------------------------
MMMMM---------------------NACHINKA IZ FASOLI--------------------------
1 c  Dried Red Beans; Soaked
-Overnight In Water To Cover
Salt And Plenty Of Freshly
-Ground Black Pepper; To
-Taste
1/4 c  Olive Oil
1 1/4 c  Onions; Finely Chopped
1/2 c  Cilantro; Finely Chopped
Sift the flour and salt into a large bowl and make a
well in the middle. Pour in the egg, oil, and club
soda and stir into the flour, adding more club soda if
necessary, ot make a rather soft dough.  Transfer the
dough to a floured board and knead until smooth and
elastic, about 10 minutes. Shape the dough into a
ball, cover with a linen or cotton (not terry cloth)
kitchen towel and let stand for 1 hour.  Divide the
dough into four parts and shape each one into a ball.
Let stand, covered, for 15 minutes. Preheat the oven
to 350 Degrees F. and butter two large baking sheets.
On a floured surface, roll out one of the balls into
an 1/8-inch thick square. Brush the dough with some of
the melted butter  Dip your fingers into the melted
butter and pull the edges of the dough in different
directions, stretching it evenly until it is almost
transparently thin. Don't worry if the dough tears, as
you will be folding it up.  With a sharp knife, trim
the edges of the dough to from an even square.  Fold
the square in half, brush the surface generously with
the melted d fold in half again crosswise to from a
smaller square.  It should be approximately 6 to 7
inches. It is isn't, pull it out slightly to fit the
dimensions. Brush the square with butter.  Shape
one-fourth of the filling into a ball and place in the
center of the square.  Fold in the corners of the
square like an envelope. With the palm of your hand,
flatten the pie so it is about 1 inch thick. Brush the
top with melted butter and carefully transfer to a
prepared baking sheet.  Repeat the procedure with the
rest of the dough and filling. Bake the pies in the
middle of the oven, until golden brown, about 35
minutes.  Serve warm.

Makes 4 Pies for 8 Servings

RED BEAN FILLING:

Drain the beans and place them in a saucepan along
with enough fresh water to cover by at least 2-inches.
Bring to a boil and add salt, then reduce the heat to
medium-low.  Cook the beans, partially covered, until
almost mushy, about 1 1/2 hours.  While the beans are
cooking, heat the oil in a medium size skillet, over
medium heat, and add the onion to saute it. Stir
occasionally, until dark brown, about 15 to 20
minutes.  When the beans are done, drain well and
mash.  Add the sauteed onions and their cooking fat
and the cilantro.  Season generously with salt and
freshly ground black pepper.  Cool to room temperature.

Makes enough filling for 4 pies.

