Title: KILLER MARGS
Categories: Beverages, Alcohol
Yield: 1 Servings
3    Parts Sunkist Sweet & Sour
1    Part GOOD tequila
1    Part Cointreau or
-Grand Marnier*
Juice of 1/2 lime**
Dash of salt
*can use triple sec, but I wouldn't **3 limes for
small-med. pitcher Pour all ingredients into shaker
with ice and shake vigorously.

Pour into tall glass with ice (can be shaken, if done
right) and retire to the patio to watch the sunset.

You can blend, but the additional ice dilutes the
flavor, and you lose the beauty and purity of the
margarita

Fruit flavored margs must be blended if using fresh or
frozen fruit -- fresh fruit (strawberries,
raspberries) need LOTS of extra sugar AND the fresh
lime juice. I haven't found any syrups that cut the
mustard as far as flavoring "rocks" margs.

I take my margaritas seriously, and would be happy to
get into off-line discussions with anyone wishing to
discuss further.

NOTE ON TEQUILA: I like Sauza Conmemorativo, but
Cuervo 1800 works. Exceptional tequilas like Sauza
Tres Generaciones, Patron Anejo and other $20-$40
bottles are wasted on margs and should be reserved for
sipping.

NOTES: I agree...a little salt here and there does
wonderful things to many recipes (including non-food).
In fact, one of the secrets to my TDF margaritas is
salt IN the mixture. (I hate salt on the glass rim,
but when you use fresh lime, the salt helps balance
the tart citrus with the biting tequila.)  I used to
live in New Mexico, and I cook Mexican food more than
any other style, so I HAVE to have a great marg recipe.

The other secret is Sunkist Sweet & Sour mix (which
I've only found at one alcohol distributor open to the
public...Beverage Warehouse, Marina del Rey).  All the
S&S mixes on the grocery store are compltely
inadequate, and "margarita mixes" don't have the right
blend of flavors (oddly enough). An old friend who
used to tend bar at a restaurant where they made
KILLER margs enlightened me about Sunkist's mix.  I've
since noticed it at MOST restaurants/bars that have
great margaritas. IMHO, nothing else comes close
(except fresh squeezed lemon and lime juice, which
requires extra sugar and is more difficult to balance
the flavors, but can be done and is heavenly when it
works).

: "Chris Gunning
Recipe By
(cgunning@millerwest.com)"

