Title: KING ARTHUR FLOUR - SOURDOUGH STARTER TIPS 4
Categories: Information, Breads
Yield: 1 Servings
-DEBBIE CARLSON   (PHHW01A)
-KING ARTHUR FLOUR HINTS
(CONTINUED) TROUGLESHOOTING

Feeding Without Baking:  "If you have been busy or
away, you can always feed your starter without baking
anything. Stir the mixture together, take out and
discard 1 cup of starter and replenish as above,
stirring in 1 cup water and 1 cup flour. (Or instead
of discarding the starter you removed, ask a neighbor
if he or she would be interested in adopting a starter
of his/her very own.)  Let the resuscitated mixture
sit at room temperature for 12 hours or so before you
return it to the refrigerator."

Treating a "Sluggish" Starter:  "If you feel that your
starter is just not "up to snuff," dissolve a teaspoon
of yeast in the cup of water you mix into the starter
when you feed it. (If you live in an area where water
is chlorinated, let some sit out overnight to allow
the chlorine to dissipate to preclude any interference
with the development of the sourdough
micro-organisms)."

Sweetening a Starter:  "If your starter becomes too
sour, take out 1 cup, dispose of the remainder, and
add 2 cups of each of flour and water to refreshen it."

Increasing Your Starter:  "If you want to grow a large
amount of starter to give some to a friend or to do a
lot of baking, simply increase the amount you feed it."

Resuscitating a Neglected Starter:  "If your sourdough
starter has sat in the refrigerator months beyond the
point of health, give it a fighting chance for
survival before you throw it out. A little warmth and
a good meal of strong, high energy carbohydrates may
be all it needs to get it off and running again."

"The layer of liquid on the surface will probably be
very dark, making it look as if the starter must
surely have expired. Quell your fear, wrestle the top
off the jar and give it a sniff. If it smells the way
it should, though exceptionally sour, it may just be
sitting there in a dormant state waiting to be fed.
The only way to know is to give it a meal."

"Blend it back together and pour it into a glass or
ceramic bowl. (Take this opportunity to give its jar a
good wash.) As the starter will probably be quite
thin, mix in 2 cups of flour and 1 cup of water to
nourish and thicken it. Leave the bowl out on the
counter where it will be warm and visible." (Continued)

LORELI Loafing and Laughing
~---06/30 09:00 pm
in OcL
FOOD AND WINE BB TOPIC: BREADS BY MACHINE TIME:
06/30 9:08 PM

LORELI AGUDA   (WSKD49A) FROM: LORELI AGUDA
TO:
(WSKD49A) SUBJECT: "MEGA 500+" FOR JUDY

