Title: KING ARTHUR - CLASSIC PUMPERNICKEL BREAD
Categories: Breads
Yield: 2 Servings
1/2 c  Cornmeal
3 c  Pumpernickel (dark rye)
-flour
1 c  (approx.) King Arthur Stone
-Ground Whole
Wheat Flour
1 tb Dry yeast
1 3/4 c  Water
3/4 c  Molasses
1 tb Butter
1 tb Salt
2 ts Sugar
2 ts Caraway seeds
1 1/2 tb Unsweetened cocoa powder
2    Med. potatoes, peeled,
-boiled, mashed and cooled
(to make 1 cup mashed
-potatoes; you can use
Instant if you prefer)
1    Egg white mixed with 1 Tbsp.
-cold water, for
"Molasses and a tiny bit of cocoa powder gives this
bread its rich, dark color.  This moist, dense-grained
bread, with the texture of the popular imported
pumpernickel you can buy in the gourmet food section
of some stores, is perfect for slicing thinly and
using as a base for canapes. Spread with sweet butter,
it's also a tasty accompaniment to cheese and fruit,
and makes a superior sandwich.  Just remember to slice
it thinly; it's heavy, and a little goes a long way.
Once you try this homemade pumpernickel, you'll never
have to buy it at the supermarket again!"

glaze

Combine 1 1/2 cups of water with the cornmeal in a
saucepan, and cook over low heat, stirring often, till
thickened, about 5 minutes. Remove pan from heat and
add the molasses, butter, salt, caraway seeds and
cocoa powder. Stir to combine and set aside to cool to
lukewarm.

Warm the remaining 1/4 cup water to approximately 110
degrees, and stir the yeast into it.  Set aside to
proof for 10 minutes.

Put the molasses mixture in a large bowl, and add the
yeast and mashed potatoes.  Stir in the rye flour and
enough whole wheat flour to make a stiff, sticky
dough.  Turn dough out onto a floured work surface,
and knead until elastic and stiff - up to 15 minutes.
You can do this in a mixer attached with a dough hook
if you prefer.

Place the dough in a greased bowl, turning to coat all
sides, cover with plastic wrap, and set aside to rise
for about 1 hour, or until doubled in bulk.  Punch
down the dough, knead for 30 seconds or so, and form
into two smooth balls, or into loaves to fit 8 1/2 x 4
1/2" bread pans. Grease the bread pans, or a baking
sheet, and set loaves in pans or on sheet. Set aside
to rise for 30 minutes or longer, till doubled in bulk.

Brush loaves with egg white glaze.  Bake bread in a
preheated 375 degree oven for 50 minutes, or until it
tests done. Makes 2 loaves.

From:  King Arthur Flour

Posted by:  Debbie Carlson - Cooking Echo

