Title: KNISHES (BOB STEIN)
Categories: Jewish
Yield: 4 Servings
Don't know what a KNISH is?
I'd love to have one right
Now  It's
Potato filled
Pastry--that'sthe best way
To describe it, but
It's more than that.
Pronounced--KAH--NISH
1/3 c egg whites (about 2) 2 Tbsp oil + 1/4 tsp salt
3/4 c water 3 c flour Oil Vegetable Filling and/or
Potato filling 1 egg, beaten (for wash)

Combine egg whites, oil, salt, water, and flour and
beat with an electric mixer until smooth.  Pour a thin
layer of oil over dough. Let stand at room temperature
for 1 hour.

Prepare filling as directed.  Preheat oven to 350
degrees. On a heavily floured board, kneed dough until
smooth and elastic. Roll out to a 1/8 inch thickness,
shaping into a 14 X 24 inch oblong. Brush dough with
oil. Spoon potato filling along one 24" edge of the
dough. Spoon vegetable filling along the other 24"
edge. Roll the dough over the filling and continue
rolling toward the center. Then roll the other side
towards the center. Cut each long roll into 2 pieces.
Place all 4 pieces on a heavily greased cookie sheet.
Brush with oil and bake for 35-40 minutes, or until
golden brown. Remove from oven and brush with egg
wash. Return to oven and bake 10 minutes longer. Cut
into 1 1/2" inch pieces and serve warm.

NOTE:  After cooling, knishes may be sliced an wrapped
and frozen (up to one year) and usd when desired.

Potato Filling: 1/4 c butter 3 c chopped onion 4 c
cooked mashed Idaho potatoes Salt and freshly groung
pepper

In a skillet, heat butter and saute onion until golden
brown. Stir in mashed potatoes, salt and pepper to
taste. Cool. Also makes good filling for Pirogen. This
is enough for 2 twelve inch knishes, so double it for
the above recipe for knishes as that recipe makes 4
12" knishes.

Vegetable Filling: 1/4 c oil 1 1/2 c chopped onion 1
clove garlic 1 carrot, diced 1 c chopped celery 2 c
chopped mushrooms 1/2 c chopped green pepper 1 c
cooked rice c cooked Kashe 1 egg Salt and freshly
ground pepper

In a 10 inch skillet, heat the oil. Add onion, garlic,
carrot, celery, mushrooms and green pepper and saute
for 10 minutes, or until veggies are tender.  Stir in
rice, kashe and egg. Season to taste with salt and
pepper. Makes 3 1/2 c filling for 2 12" inch knishes
so double for knish recipe above.

