Title: KOFTA KEBABS IN SPICY CREAM SAUCE
Categories: Main dish
Yield: 1 Servings  Kofta, a classic dish of Moghul origin, is one of the
most important preparations of Indian vegetarian
cuisine. Traditionally, koftas are simmered in a
delicate sauce and turned into a curried main dish.
These kebabs are wonderful served as cocktail
appetizers with a yogurt or fruity dipping sauce.

INGREDIENTS:

KOFTA:

2 large russet potatoes, boiled, peeled, mashed 1/2
cup green peas, fresh or frozen 1/4 cup shredded
Cheddar cheese 1 fresh hot green chile, chopped 1/2
teaspoon ground coriander 1 teaspoon cumin seeds 1 1/2
teaspoons salt 1/4 cup chopped cashew nuts 1
tablespoon raisins 3/4 cup chick-pea flour or corn
flour (see note) 1 cup water Mild vegetable oil for
deep frying

SPICY CREAM SAUCE:

8 whole cashew nuts 2 whole cloves Pinch nutmeg
1/2-inch cinnamon stick 1 garlic clove, peeled 2
tablespoons unsalted butter 1 large onion, grated
Pinch turmeric 2 teaspoons paprika 1/2 teaspoon ground
coriander 1/2 teaspoon cayenne pepper 1 teaspoon salt
1 cup half-and-half 1 cup water 1/2 cup heavy cream 2
tablespoons chopped fresh cilantro The kofta: Combine
potatoes, peas, cheese, chile, coriander, cumin, salt,
cashews and raisins. Form mixture into 1-inch balls.

Make a batter with the flour and water. Season with
pinch of salt, if desired.

Heat oil to 375 degrees F in a deep fryer or large
heavy saucepan. Dip balls into batter to coat
completely, and deep-fry until brown (do not crowd),
about 4 minutes. Set aside.

(If you want the kebabs to remain firm, put them on a
heated serving platter, and tent with foil. To serve,
bring cream sauce to a boil and pour over kebabs.)

The sauce: Grind cashews, cloves, nutmeg, cinnamon and
garlic with a little water to make a fine paste. Set
aside.

Heat butter in a large saucepan over medium-high heat.
Add onion and saute until wilted; stir in ground paste
and cook 2 minutes.

Add turmeric, paprika, coriander, cayenne and salt.
Stir in half-and-half and water. Reduce heat and
simmer about 15 minutes.

(May be prepared 2 days ahead, cooled, covered and
refrigerated.)

Stir in cream and kofta kebabs. Bring to a boil, then
remove from heat. Garnish with cilantro and serve
immediately.

Serves 4,

Note: Chick-pea flour (also called besan) may be
purchased at Indian grocery stores.

PER SERVING: 645 calories, 15 g protein, 54 g
carbohydrate, 43 g fat (19 g saturated), 86 mg
cholesterol, 1,450 mg sodium, 8 g fiber.

Laxmi Hiremath writing in the San Francisco Chronicle,
6/24/92.

Converted by MMCONV vers. 1.50

