Title: KOHL'S FRUIT CAKE
Categories: Improv, Kohl, Cakes, Fruit
Yield: 1 Servings
1    Recipe
(We replaced the *ugh* raisins with apricots or left
them out all together) First: Get out an angel food
cake pan or two loaf pans and
line them with brown paper (clean grocery sacks
are okay)

Second:  Mix together, then beat vigorously for 2
minutes:

1    cup good cooking oil
4    eggs
1 1/2 cups brown sugar, firmly packed

Third: Sift together:

2    cups sifted flour
1    teaspoon baking powder
2    teaspoons salt
2    teaspoons allspice
1    teaspoon gound cloves

Fourth: Stir the flour mixture into the egg mixture
alternately with 1 cup juice, wine, brandy, or rum.

Fifth: Mix 1 cup sifted flour into:

1 cup sliced pineapple (special jars for fruit cakes)
1 1/2 cups whole cherries (special for fruit cakes)
1    cup dates
1    cup apricots or raisins
1 cup mixed fruit (special jars for fruit cakes)
3    cups whole pecans

Sixth: Pour the batter over the fruit mixture, mixing
well. Pour batter into the lined pan(s). Place a pan
of water on the lower rack of the oven. In a preheated
275 degree oven, bake 2 1/2 to 3 hours. Let cool at
least 15 minutes before removing paper. Then wrap cake
in a cheese cloth and store in cool, dry place - such
as a cake tin or tupperware.

NOTE: For a "Drinking Age Fruitcake" - pour rum or
branding over the cake(s) every few days. Requires 4
quarts, or about 1 1/2 cups for each 1/2 pound of
fruit cake.

TIPS: Glaze will not stick to a fruit cake soaked with
rum or brandy. If you don't want your fruitcake soaked
with rum or brandy, then prepare a glaze of:

2    tablespoons brown sugar
1    tablespoon corn syrup
2    tablespoons water

Boil for 2 minutes, and then brush over the cake.
Decorate the cake with fruit and nuts just before
using.

Suggestions: Make some Rum Sticks by slicing cake into
"sticks" and soaking them with rum or brandy until
they are nearly dripping!

Taken From: IT NEVER TURNS OUT THE SAME WAY COOKBOOK
A Collection of Recipes from the Kitchen of Joyce &
Clem Kohl

