Title: KURMA
Categories: Indian, Vegetarian
Yield: 4 Servings
1/2    Medium-sized (4 oz/100
Grammes) aubergine, cut
Into
Three-quarter inch by half
Inch (2 cm x 1 cm sticks)
2 sm Carrots (4 oz/100 grammes),
Peeled and cut into
Three-quarter inch by half
Inch (2 cm x 1 cm sticks)
4 oz (100 grammes) peas
4 oz (100 grammes) French beans,
Cut into 1 inch (2 and a
Half
Cm) pieces
1    Medium-sized potato (4 oz x
100    Grammes), peeled and cut
Into
Three-quarter inch by half
Inch (2 cm x 1 cm sticks)
2 oz (50 grammes) fresh grated
Coconut
4    Fresh hot green chillies
2 tb White poppy seeds
Quarter tsp salt
3    Medium-sized tomatoes,
Roughly chopped
1 tb Natural (plain) yoghurt
1 ts Garam masala
2 tb Chopped, fresh green
Coriander
Place the aubergine, carrots, peas, French beans and
potato in a medium-sized saucepan. Add 8fl oz (250ml)
water. Bring to the boil. Cover, turn the heat to
medium and cook for four minutes or until the
vegetables are just tender.

Meanwhile put the coconut, chillies, poppy seeds and
salt in an electric blender. Add 5 fluid ounces (150
ml) water and grind to a fine paste. Set aside.

When the vegetables are cooked, add the spice paste
and 5 fluid ounces (150 ml) water. Stir and simmer
gently for five minutes. Add the tomatoes, yoghurt and
garam masala. Stir gently to mix well. Bring to the
boil and simmer gently for 2 - 3 minutes. Turn into a
serving dish and garnish with the fresh coriander.

TIPS

If you wish to substitute unsweetened, desiccated
coconut for fresh coconut use 5 tbsps (1 oz/30
grammes). Barely cover with warm water and leave for
one hour, then proceed with the recipe.

Coriander is the parsley of India. Mix it with
vegetables and chicken, use as a garnish and add the
stems to soup and dals for extra flavour. To keep
coriander fresh, stand sprigs in a glass of water,
cover with a plastic bag and keep in the fridge.

Kurma

Westerners who come to Madras, Tamil Nadu's capital
city, expecting to find meals made with "Madras" curry
powder are in for a surprise. Curry powders
manufactured in this southern Indian city are strictly
for export. Aromatic spices, fennel seeds and fresh
coconut are the ingredients that give the superb
cuisine of Tamil Nadu its flavour and texture.

For this dish, vegetables are "dressed" with a ground
paste of fresh coconut, poppy seeds and green
chillies, which is cooked briefly with the vegetables
so that it is absorbed by them. The dish is best
served with plain rice and you could also serve it as
an accompaniment to a meat dish.

Copyright of the British Broadcasting Corporation

