Title: LAMB SANS MINT
Categories: Meats
Yield: 4 Servings
1    Leg of lamb,
-butterflied and
-trimmed
6 tb Rosemary
Black pepper
Green onions
4 c  Burgundy wine
2 c  Olive oil
1/2 c  Lemon juice
6    Garlic cloves, sliced
1 tb Oregano
1 tb Thyme
1 c  Onion, minced
Carefully trimming the fat from a butterflied leg of lamb, and and
finish the cut, as needed, so that the lamb lies flat in a butterfly
shape. A large butterflied leg of lamb should be no more than about 2
or 3 inches thick.

Take a liberal amount of rosemary, crush it and rub it into the lamb.
When crushing it, don't turn it into dust, just break it. Sprinkle
some black pepper on the cut side of the meat.

Combine the remaining ingredients (wine, green onions, olive oil,
lemon juice, garlic, oregano, thyme and onion) into a marinade. Place
the lamb in a shallow dish or bowl, cover as much as possible with
the marinade, and marinate in a refrigerator, covered, for 4 to 24
hours. Turn at intervals to marinate evenly.

Grill over mesquite and charcoal on a grill with a tight-fitting lid,
such as a Weber. Cook on one side for 25 minutes, occasionally
spooning some leftover marinade onto the uncooked side, then turn and
cook about 20 more minutes. cooking. Make a small cut in the thickest
part of the lamb to check for doneness: when the center is still
pink, but not raw, take the lamb off and prepare to serve. Remember
that the lamb will continue to cook after you take it off the grill.

Serve the lamb cut-side down (pretty side up). Garnish with uncooked
green onions.

NOTES:

*  Grilled butterflied leg of lamb -- I devised this recipe after
being unable to find an appropriate recipe in the library. It is
always well received, and it looks impressive far out of proportion
to its difficulty. Because it is simple and difficult to screw up, it
is perfect as the centerpiece for a meal with a large group or with
complex side dishes. Serve with a hearty rice pilaf and a vegetable.
Yield: Serves 4-6.

*  Your butcher can butterfly a leg of lamb for you. Tell him you
will be cooking it flat, and not rolling it back up into a roast. Ask
him to be careful.

: Difficulty:  easy if you have a good butcher.
: Time:  20 minutes preparation, overnight marinating, 45 minutes
roasting. : Precision:  approximate measurement OK.

: Steven McGeady
: Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon, USA
: mcg@omepd.intel.com

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

