Title: LEMON TARTLETS (EW)
Categories: Desserts, Fruits
Yield: 12 Servings
MMMMM-------------------------LEMON CURD------------------------------
1    Large egg
2    Large egg whites
3/4 c  Sugar
2/3 c  Fresh lemon juice (4 lemons)
1 tb Grated lemon zest
2 tb Butter
MMMMM-----------------------PASTRY SHELLS----------------------------
2 tb Vegetable oil, preferably
-canola oil
2 tb Sugar
1/4 ts Salt
1 c  All-purpose white flour
2    Large eggs
4    Large egg whites
1 ts Pure vanilla extract
Confectioners' sugar for
-dusting
To make lemon curd:  Whisk together egg, egg whites, sugar, lemon
juice and zest in a heavy bottomed, medium-sided saucepan. If you do
not have a heavy-bottomed pan, use a double boiler and increase the
cooking time slightly.  Add butter and cook over medium-low heat,
whisking constantly, until thickened, 5 to 7 minutes. (The curd will
become thicker as it cools.)  Transfer to bowl and let cool.  Cover
and refrigerate until chilled.  (The curd can be prepared ahead and
stored, covered, in the refrigerator for up to 2 days.)

To make pastry shells:  Place oven rack in the upper third of the
oven; preheat to 375 degrees F. Lightly oil 24 three-inch muffin cups
or spray them with nonstick cooking spray.

in a medium-size saucepan, combine 1 cup water, oil, sugar and salt;
bring just to a boil over medium heat. Remove from the heat and add
flour all at once.  Stir with a wooden spoon until the mixture forms
a smooth mass. Let cool for 2 minutes, then transfer to a stand-up
mixer fitted with paddle attachment or to a food processor.

In a measuring cup, whisk together eggs, egg whites and vanilla.
Gradually add one quarter of the egg mixture to the flour paste,
beating or processing until the eggs are incorporated. Repeat with 3
more additions of the egg mixture until the batter just falls from a
spoon. The batter may seem lumpy.

Place aobut 1 T pastry into each prepared muffin cup. Dip a spoon in
cold water and press the pastry into sides of the cups. With
moistened fingers, press the pastry part way up the sides of the
cups, forming 3/8 inch thick shells.  Bake for 5 minutes.  Remove
from the oven and prick the centers of the shells with a fork. Return
to the oven and bake for 10 to 15 minutes longer, or until puffed and
golden. Loosen shells with a table knife or small metal spatula and
transfer to a wire rack. Let cool. (The shells can be prepared ahead
and stored, well wrapped, in the freezer for up to 1 month.  Unwrap
and thaw at room temp. for 1 hour before filling).

To assemble tartlets:  Not more than 1 1/2 hours before serving, spoon
about 1 T lemon curd into each tartlet shell and dust with
confectioners' sugar.

Makes 24 tartlets, serves 12.

Entered by: Diane Pahl (1:2410/120) Recipes from: Eating Well, The
Magazine of Food and Health (tm) ISSN 1064-16399

