Title: LEMON ICEBOX PIE (LOWFAT VERSION)
Categories: Pies, Pastries
Yield: 8 Servings
8 oz Container nonfat yogurt
6    Whole Graham Crackers
1 tb Canola Oil
1/2 c  Honey
1/4 c  Cornstarch
2    Lowfat vanilla yogurt
-(8 oz each)
1/2 c  Egg beaters® 99% egg
Substitute
1/2 c  Lemon Juice
1/2 ts Lemon Extract
1/2 ts Almond Extract
3    Egg Whites
1/2 ts Cream Of Tartar
1 tb Honey
1 ts Vanilla extract
Place a coffee filter in a medium strainer. Spoon the plain yogurt
into the filter and set the strainer over a deep bowl. Cover,
refrigerate and allow to drain for 8 hours or overnight. Discard the
drained-off whey. Refrigerate yogurt until needed.

Crumble the graham crackers into the work bowl of a foodprocessor.
Process with on/off turns to make crumbs. Add the canola oil and
process to combine.

Coat a 10-inch pie plate with nostick spray. Press the crumbs into
the pan to make a crust. Chill.

In a 2-quart saucepan, whisk together 1/2 cup honey and the
cornstarch. Whisk in the vanilla yogurt and drained plain yogurt.
Cook over medium heat, stirring constantly until the mixture thickens
and boils.

Remove from heat. Pour some of the hot mixture into the egg
substitute. Stir. Very slowly whisk that mixture back into the
remaining hot mixture. Reduce heat to low. Cook, stirring constantly,
for 2 minutes. Remove from heat  and whisk in lemon juice, lemon
extract and almond extract. Spoon into the prepared crust. In a
medium bowl, beat egg whites and cream of tartar at medium speed
until foamy. Add 1 tablespoon honey and the vanilla. Beat at high
speed until stiff peaks form. Spread over pie filling, avoiding gaps
where the meringue topping meets the crust.

Bake at 325 degrees for 10 to 15 minutes, until meringue is golden.
Chill.

Per serving: 231 calories, 3.  3 g. fat (13% of calories), 0. 5 g.
dietary fiber, 7.  5 g. protein, 43 g. carbohydrates, 3 mg.
cholesterol, 165 mg. sodium.

Serves 8.

~Prevention, April, 1993

: christi@meaddata.  com (Christi Wilson)
Recipe By

