Title: LEMON CURD PAVLOVA
Categories: Desserts
Yield: 8 Servings
3/4 c  Granulated sugar
2 tb Cornstarch
2/3 c  Lemon juice
2 tb Coarsely grated lemon rind
3    Eggs
3    Egg yolks
1/3 c  Unsalted butter
1 1/2 c  Whipping cream
GARNISH;
2    Kiwi fruit
1 c  Frozen raspberries, slightly
-thawed
Mint leaves
LEMON PAVLOVA
4    Egg whites
1 pn Of cream of tartar
2/3 c  Granulated sugar
1/3 c  Icing sugar
1 tb Cornstarch
1/4 ts Finely grated lemon rind
1 tb Lemon juice
LEMON CURD FILLING;

LEMON CURD FILLING;  In heavy sauce pan, whisk together sugar, corn
starch, lemon juice, rinds, eggs and yolks until well blended. Cook
over medium low heat for 10 - 15 minutes, stirring constantly while
mixture comes to gentle boil, until smooth and thickened, and no
taste of cornstarch remains. Remove from heat and strain immediately
into heatproof bowl, discarding rind.  Stir in butter until melted.
Cover surface with waxed paper. Refrigerate for up to 3 days.

LEMON PAVLOVA; Line large baking sheet or pizza pan with parchment
paper or greased foil.  Draw outline for 9 inch circle, set aside. In
large bowl, beat egg whites with cream of tartar until soft peaks
form. Gradually beat in half of the granulated sugar until stiff
glossy peaks form. In seperate bowl, combine remaining sugar with
icing sugar and cornstarch. Sprinkle over egg whites; add lemon rind
and juice and fold together until smooth. Scoop out onto circle; form
into nest-shape, making side higher than middle. Bake in 275 oven for
about 1 - 1/2 hours or until outside is crisp and very light gold.
Let cool completely; transfer to doily-lined serving plate. (Can be
made a few hours before serving)

TO SERVE; whip cream until stiff.  Beat Lemon Curd Filling briefly to
lighten. Stir in one-third of the whipped cream; fold in remainder.
Mound in Pavlova nest, letting some overflow slightly Peel and slice
kiwi fruit thinly; arrange kiwi slices, raspberries and mint leaves
on top. To serve, cut with serrated knife. Makes 8 - 10 servings.

