Title: LEMON-GINGER MARMALADE
Categories: Condiments, Jams
Yield: 2 Servings
3 lg Lemons
3 3/4 c  Cold water
1    Piece ginger - 4x1-inch,
-peeled, cut into thick
-slices
4 c  Sugar
Cut off lemon ends.  Cut lemons lengthwise into quarters, then cut
crosswise into thin slices, removing and reserving seeds. Place lemon
seeds in small bowl. Place lemon slices in medium bowl. Add 1/2 cup
cold water to bowl with seeds and 3 cups cold water to bowl with
lemon slices. Cover bowls with plastic wrap and let stand 24 hours at
room temperature.

Transfer lemon slices with their soaking water to heavy large
saucepan. Strain water from bowl with seeds into same saucepan. Wrap
seeds in cheesecloth; tie with string and add to saucepan. Bring to
simmer over medium-high heat.  Cover partially and adjust heat so
mixture barely simmers.  Cook 45 minutes, stirring occasionally.

Puree sliced ginger with remaining 1/4 cup water in processor,
stopping occasionally to scrape down sides of bowl. Strain mixture
through sieve, pressing down on solids with spoon. Reserve 1/4 cup
ginger juice.

Remove cheesecloth bag from saucepan and squeeze it between spoons so
liquid drains back into pan.  Add 4 cups sugar to lemon mixture and
stir until dissolved. Add reserved 1/4 cup ginger juice. Simmer
mixture uncovered until it reaches gelling stage, about 1 hour. (To
test for doneness, remove pan from heat. Fill chilled spoon with
preserves, then slowly pour preserves back into pan; last 2 drops
should merge and sheet off spoon.  One tablespoon of preserves
spooned onto chilled plate and frozen 2 minutes should wrinkle when
gently pushed with fingertip.)

Rinse clean jars, lids and screw bands in hot water. Spoon preserves
into hot jar to 1/4 inch from top. Immediately wipe rim, using towel
dipped into hot water. Place lid on jar, seal tightly with screw
band. Repeat with remaining preserves and jars. Arrange jars on rack
set into large pot. Cover with boiling water by at least 1 inch.
Cover pot and boil
15    minutes.*

Remove jars from water bath. Cool to room temperature. Press center
of each lid.  If lid stays down, jar is sealed. Store in cool dry
place up to 1 year. Refrigerate after opening. (If lid pops up, store
preserves in refrigerator.)

* If preserves have not been processed in water bath as described
above, cover and refrigerate.

Makes about 3-1/2 cups.

Recipe from Bon Appetit, October, 1991.

