Title: LEMON-ROASTED SALMON WITH CREAMY DILL SAUCE
Categories: Fish*shell, Main dish
Yield: 12 Servings
5 lb Salmon, cleaned [1 fish]
1/4 ts Salt
1/4 ts Pepper
3    Lemons, sliced
1/2 c  Fresh dill
1/2 c  Fresh parsley sprigs
2 tb Butter, melted
MMMMM-------------------CREAMY DILL WINE SAUCE------------------------
2 tb Butter
2 tb All-purpose flour
1/2 c  Milk
1/2 c  Dry white wine
1/2 c  Whipping cream
3/4 ts Salt
1/4 ts Pepper
1/4 c  Fresh dill, chopped
Buying Tip: When buying fresh fish, flesh should be firm, spring back
when touched and smell fresh. Fish should have unclouded eyes and
bright red gills. To determine thickness of fish, use a ruler, placed
perpendicular to the backbone, and a flat edge across the side of the
fish, at right angle to the ruler. Read ruler where the two intersect.

1. Let salmon stand at room temperature for 30 minutes. Using sharp
chef's knife, firmly cut off fish head behind gills (or have
fishmonger remove it). Rinse under cold water; pat dry. Season inside
and out with salt and pepper. Line baking sheet with foil; arrange
one-third of the lemon slices in lengthwise row along centre. Top
with salmon.

2. Fill body cavity with dill, parsley and another third of the
lemons. Brush butter over salmon; top with remaining lemons. Measure
thickest part of salmon; calculate 12-15 minutes cooking time for
every 1 inch of thickness. Crumple up foil around fish to hold
juices, leaving salmon uncovered.

3. Bake salmon in 450F 230C oven for about 45 minutes or until flesh
at thickest part is opaque and flakes easily when tested with fork.
Remove from oven and tent with foil; let stand for 5 minutes. With
baster or spoon, remove 1/4 cup pan juices; set aside.

4. Creamy Dill Wine Sauce: In saucepan, melt butter over medium heat;
stir in flour and cook, stirring, for 1 minute. Gradually whisk in
milk, wine, cream, salt and pepper; cook, whisking, for 5 minutes or
until boiling and thickened. Stir in reserved pan juices; reduce heat
and simmer for 5 minutes. Keep warm over low heat while carving
salmon; stir in dill.

5. to serve salmon, discard lemon on top. cut lengthwise along
backbone through to bone. Starting at backbone, gently pull off skin;
discard. Cut along midline (This is the natural fold between the back
flesh and the flesh on the rib bones.) parallel to backbone, through
to bone. Cut crosswise into 4-inch wide portions. Insert spatula
between meat and bones, lift salmon portions to warmed serving plates.

6. Gently lift exposed bones away from the other side of salmon;
discard. Repeat cutting along midline as in Step 5, then into
portions; ease salmon away from skin. Serve with warm sauce.

Source: Canadian Living magazine, Sep 94 Presented in article "Cooking
Lesson" Recipe by Canadian Living Test Kitchen

[-=PAM=-]   PA_Meadows@msn.com

