Title: LEMON RAISIN BREAD
Categories: Breads
Yield: 1 Servings
1/4    To 1/2 cup warm water
4 tb Sugar
1 pk Active dry yeast
1    Egg, beaten
1/4 c  Blanched whole almonds
1/4 c  Mixed candied fruit
1/4 c  Dark raisins or currants
2    Pieces pared lemon rind,
-about 1 1/2 x 1/4-inches
2 1/4 c  All-purpose flour
2 tb Butter or margarine, room
-temperature
1/2 ts Salt
1 c  Powdered sugar
1/4 ts Vanilla
2    To 3 Tbsp milk
Makes 1 loaf

Combine 1/4 cup of the water, 1 tablespoon of the granulated sugar and
yeast.  Stir to dissolve yeast and let stand unitl bubbly, about 5
minutes. Stir in egg.

Fit processor with steel blade.  Measure almonds, candied fruit and
raisins into work bowl.  Process on/off 3 or 4 times until mixture is
coarsely chopped. Remove from work bowl and reserve.

Place remaining granulated sugar and lemon rind in work bowl. Process
until rind is minced, 1 to 2 minutes.

Add flour, butter and salt to sugar mixture.  Process until mixed,
about 5 minutes.

Turn on processor and gradually drizzle yeast mixture through feed
tube into flour mixture.  Drizzle just enough of the remaining water
into flour mixture so dough forms a ball that cleans the sides of the
bowl. Process until dough turns around the bowl about 25 times. Turn
off processor and let dough stand 1 to 2 minutes.

Turn on processor and very slowly drizzle in enough remaining water
to make dough soft, smooth and satiny but not sticky. Process until
dough turns around bowl about 15 times.

Sprinkle nut-fruit mixture evenly over dough.  Process on/off just
until mixed.

Turn dough onto large greased cookie sheet.  Shape into a ball. Cover
with inverted bowl or plastic wrap and let stand 20 - 30 minutes.
Roll out to an 8-inch circle. Cover loosely with plastic wrap and let
stand in warm place until doubled, about 45 minutes.

Heat oven to 375 F.  Uncover loaf and bake until evenly brown, 25 - 30
minutes.

Remove bread from cookie sheet and place on wire rack. Blend powdered
sugar, vanilla and enough milk to make a smooth mixture thick enough
to spread.  Spread over bread.

Food Processor Bread Book From the collection of Jim Vorheis

