Title: LEMON BUNDT CAKE IN JARS
Categories: Cakes
Yield: 1 Servings
1 pk Lemon cake mix; * see note
1 sm Pkg instant lemon pudding mi
4    Eggs
(or egg substitute)
1/2 c  Oil; * see note
1 c  Warm (not hot) orange juice
Orange juice
Frosting: see directions
This is my "signature" cake"..I've made it under all sorts of
circumstances including a gas cooker in London that went down in the
middle of baking...also in high altitude when I neglected to follow
those specific directions...EVen the "shell" was devoured and no one
even noticed! This cake is a winner....the changes to lower the fat
are in (). Because I'm starting with the mix, there is already a
certain amount of fat, but it's not too bad.) * use any kind of cake
mix without the pudding in it. Use less oil if you wish--1/8 to 1/4
cup.
Beat together ( use a food processor or a hand mixer or anything
that's handy)....until batter is smooth.
Put batter into bundt pan sprayed with PAM **  OR, fill 4-6 pint
size greased Mason jars 1/2 full.   Bake for 45 minutes at 350. Every
oven is different, so you may bake longer or shorter.
I've only made the jars once and I baked 2 jars along with a small
bundt pan.  It took the normal time. With the jars only, I would test
at 35 minutes. (I used one of those bamboo thin skewers - it's like a
long toothpick! I thought I was so clever!) You'll see the cake
rising and turning brown and it pulls away a little from the sides of
the jar. With the regular cake I do the following: Turn out of the
pan immediately onto the serving plate. (Don't, of course, take the
cakes out of the jars!) Poke holes in the cake with a fork (in the
jar) spoon over the following "icing":
1 1/2 c. powdered sugar (or any amount you want) grated lemon rind
(in proportion to sugar) Lemon juice to make "runny" consistency. It
should drip from the spoon. Spoon it right over the tops of the cakes
in the jar - or over the bundt cake shape. Put the lids on and screw
down the rings. Everything worked fine.
I tasted one of them after a few days...naturally! The cake was
delicious and didn't lose any of its flavor with the substitutions.
This cake is always a hit, and SO easy to make. It takes exactly one
hour from start to finish!    Ronda Furgatch Linda Caldwell Food BB
Board Leader WWGQ25A 08:57 am/CST/10th/November

