Title: LIGHT CHOCOLATE DECADENCE
Categories: Chocolate, Cakes, Low-cal
Yield: 12 Servings
5 oz Bittersweet chocolate,
-finely chopped
2 lg Eggs
1 lg Egg white
1 ts Vanilla
1/8 ts Cream of tartar
1/2 c  Plus 1 tablespoon
-unsweetened alkaline (Dutch
-Process) cocoa
2 tb All-purpose flour
2/3    Plus 1/4 cup sugar
3/4 c  Low fat 1% milk
Place oven rack in lower third of the oven, and turn the heat to 350
degrees F. With nonstick cooking spray, lightly coat inside rim of an
8 inch wide, 1 1/2 to 2 inch deep round cake pan. Line pan bottom with
cooking parchment cut to fit.

Place chopped chocolate in a large bowl, set aside. Break 1 egg into a
small bowl. Separate remaining egg. Put yolk with whole egg. Put
white in separate larger bowl, and add remaining egg white. Add
vanilla to the bowl with the yolk. Add cream of tartar to egg whites.

Combine cocoa, flour, and 2/3 cup sugar in a 1 to 1 1/2 quart pan.
Mixing smoothly with a whisk, gradually add milk. Stir over medium
heat until mixture simmers, about 6 minutes; don't scorch. Stir and
cook 1 1/2 minutes longer; then pour hot mixture over chopped
chocolate. Stir until chocolate is completely melted and smooth.

Beat egg whites with cream of tartar at medium speed until egg whites
hold soft peaks. Beating at high speed, gradually add the remaining
1/4 cup sugar, then beat until whites hold stiff but not dry peaks.

Stir 1/4 of the egg whites into the chocolate mixture, then gently
fold in the remaining egg whites. Scrape batter into prepared cake
pan, and smooth the top.

Set cake pan in another pan that is at least 2 inches wider and 2
inches deep. Set pans in oven. Fill outer pan with boiling water to
half the depth of the cake pan. Bake just until center of cake
springs back when very gently pressed- it will be quite gooey.

Lift cake pan from water, and set on a rack to cool. When cake is
cool to the touch, cover it with plastic wrap, and chill thoroughly
until cold, at least 8 hours or up to 2 days.

To release cake, slide a thin knife between rim and cake. Cover cake
with a sheet of waxed paper, then invert a flat plate onto the paper.
Hold pan and plate together and then invert; shake gently if needed,
to loosen cake. If cake sticks to pan, place a hot damp towel on on
pan bottom for a few minutes; then gently shake pan with plate.
Remove pan. Peel off and discard parchment. Invert serving dish onto
cake. Supporting with flat plate, turn cake over onto serving dish.
Remove flat plate and discard wax paper. Cut cake with a thin sharp
knife, dipping the knife in hot water and wiping clean between cuts.
Garnish with rasberries and whipped cream.

Comments: Its unbelievable how this mother of all chocolate desserts
(by Alice Medrich)is just as rich and decadent in this low calorie
version. You'll have to try it for yourself to believe it. Before you
do, its a good idea to read through the recipe (there are many steps
and pieces of equipment involved)

From the cafecreosote web pages.

Preparation Time: 30 min Baking Time: 30 min. Refrigeration Time: 8
hours

Nutritional Information: Servings Per Recipe: 12 Calories 153
Calories From Fat 39% Protein 4g Carbohydrate 23g Cholesterol 31mg
Sodium 23mg

