Title: LITHLA PARK SPRING ROLLS
Categories: Appetizers, Brenda's
2 TB oil
Yield: 1 Servings
1 c  onion -- chopped
1/2 c  leek -- chopped
1 c  celery -- thinly sliced
1    jalapeno chile -- seeded and
minced
:
2    cloves garlic -- minced or
pressed
:
1/2 ts fresh ginger -- minced
1 lb smoked ham -- julienne cut
2 c  cabbage -- finely shredded
5 oz bamboo shoots (canned) --
julienne cut
:
3 TB sherry
1 TB soy sauce
1 TB cornstarch
1 lb egg roll skins
1    egg -- beaten
oil
:

Ashland is a picnic lover's haven, from beautiful Lithia Park
adjacent to the Elizabethan Theater, to nearby streams, lakes and
hillsides. Perfect pre-theater picnic fare would be this Chinese
spring roll, with its succulent ham and vegetable filling all wrapped
up and ready to go.

Heat the 2 tablespoons of oil in a large frying pan or wok. Add the
onion, leek, celery, chile, garlic and ginger. Stir-fry for about 1
minute, then add the ham, cabbage and bamboo shoots, and continue to
stir-fry for an additional 3 or 4 minutes. Blend together the sherry;
soy sauce and cornstarch. Stir the mixture into the vegetables and
cook just until thickened. Do not overcook the ingredients or the
vegetables will not be crunchy. Remove from heat, adjust seasonings
and cool thoroughly before proceeding with recipe.

For each spring roll, place an egg roll skin on counter, with a corner
pointing toward you. Arrange about 2 rounded tablespoons of the
filling diagonally across the skin, to within 1 inch of the left and
right corners. Fold the corner nearest you over the filling. Brush a
dot of beaten egg on the left and right corners, then fold these
corners in over the filling, pressing them firmly down onto the
previously folded corner. Now roll the package to within 1 inch of
the top comer. Dot top corner with egg and press it down on the roll
to seal. As each spring roll is completed, cover it with plastic wrap
until ready to fry. Rolls can be refrigerated up to 12 hours before
frying. Fry a few spring rolls at a time in about 2 inches of hot oil
until golden, turning to evenly brown on all sides.

After frying, drain well on paper towels and serve immediately, or
refrigerate for later use.  Spring rolls are equally delicious hot or
cold.

Cooked spring rolls can also be covered and frozen. To reheat frozen
rolls, place them on a baking sheet an bake in a 375 degree oven for
about 20 minutes, or microwave on HIGH until heated through. Adapted
for Mastercook by Brenda Adams <adamsfmle@aol.com> post mc-recipe
10/10/96

: Jan Roberts-Dominguez: Sandwich Cuisine Oregon Style
Recipe By

Date: Sat, 12 Oct 1996 14:00:34
From: Adamsfmle@aol.Com
~0400

