Title: LOKUM
Categories: Candies
Yield: 6 Servings
4 c  Granulated sugar
4 1/2 c  Water
1 ts Lemon juice
1 c  Cornflour
1 ts Cream of tartar
1 tb To 2 tb rose water
Red food colouring
1/2 c  Chopped, toasted almonds,
-unblanched
3/4 c  Icing (confectioner's) sugar
Additional 1/4 cup cornflour
Combine sugar, 1 & 1/2 cups water and lemon juice in a thick based
pan. Stir over low heat until sugar dissolves, brushing sugar
crystals off side of pan with a bristle brush dipped in cold water.

Bring to the boil and boil it to soft ball stage, 115 degrees Celsius
(240 degrees Farenheight) on a candy thermometer. Remove from the
heat.

In another thick based pan blend cornflour, cream of tartar and 1 cup
cold water until smooth.  Boil remaining 2 cups of water and stir
into cornflour mixture, then place over heat.  Stir constantly until
mixture thickens and bubbles. Use a balloon whisk if lumps form.

Pour hot syrup gradually into cornflour mixture, stirring constantly.
Bring to the boil and boil gently for 1 & 1/4 hours. Stir
occassionally with a wooden spoon and cook until mixture is a pale
golden colour. Stirring is essential.

Stir in rose water to taste and a few drops of ted food colouring to
tinge it a pale pink.  Blend in nuts if used, and remove from heat.

Pour into an oiled 23 cm (9 inch) square cake tin and leave for 12
hours to set.

Combine icing sugar and the 1/4 cup cornflour in a flat dish.

Cut Turkish Delight into squares with an oiled knife and toss into
sugar mixture.

Store in a sealed container with remaining sugar misture sprinkled
between layers.

Variations:

Creme de Menth Lokum: replace rose water and red food coloring with 2
tablespoons

Creme de Menth liqueur and a little green food coloring. Omit nuts.

Orange Lokum:  Use 1-2 tablespoons orange flower water instead of rose
water; use orange food colouring.

Vanilla Lokum:  Use 2 tablespoons vanilla essence instead of rose
water and colouring, and stir in 1/2 cup toasted chopped almonds or
chopped walnuts. Do not blanch almonds.

Hope this is what you were after.

