Title: LOW-FAT VEGETABLE LASAGNE
Categories: Main dish, Low-fat, Meatless
Yield: 8 Servings
9    Pieces Lasagne, uncooked
1 md Yellow onion; chopped
1 ts Vegetable oil
2    Garlic cloves; crushed
8 oz Mushrooms, sliced thin
-- (optional)
1/4 c  Fresh parsley, chopped
10 oz Frozen spinach; thawed
-- drained thoroughly
1/4 ts Salt
1/2 ts Dried basil
1/2 ts Dried oregano
2 c  Meatless tomato sauce
-OR meatless spaghetti sauce
15 oz Part-skim ricotta cheese
-OR reduced fat ricotta
3/4 c  Shredded mozzarella cheese
- (part-skim)
2 tb Grated Parmesan cheese
Prepare pasta according to package directions; drain and cover with
cool water until ready to use.

While pasta is cooking, combine onions and oil in a skillet over
medium heat until golden, about 5 minutes. Add the garlic and cook
about 1 minute. Spoon out half the onions and reserve for later. Add
the mushrooms (if using) to the onions in the skillet. Cook, stirring
over medium heat, until the mushrooms are tender and slightly
browned, about 7 minutes. Add the parsley and a pinch of salt;
transfer to a bowl.

Add the reserved cooked onion and the spinach to the skillet. Cover
and cook over medium heat until the spinach is wilted, about 3
minutes. Uncover and cook over medium heat to evaporate any excess
moisture, about 1 minute. Season with a pinch of salt.

Heat oven to 350 degrees F. Drain the lasagne and pat dry with paper
towels. Mix the oregano and basil with the tomato sauce. Spread 1 cup
tomato sauce in the bottom of a 13 x 9 x 3-inch pan. Arrange 3 lasagne
pieces, slightly overlapping, in the pan. Spoon the spinach mixture
on top in an even layer. Spread with half of the ricotta. Sprinkle
with 1/4 cup of the shredded mozzarella cheese.

Arrange a layer of 3 more lasagne pieces. Spread with the mushrooms,
the remaining ricotta mixture, and 1/4 cup of the mozzarella. Top
with the remaining 3 pieces of lasagne, 1 cup of tomato sauce and 1/2
cup of the mozzarella cheese. Sprinkle with Parmesan cheese. Bake
until brown and bubbly, about 45 minutes.

Each serving provides: 243 Calories; 15.1 g Protein; 29.9 g
Carbohydrates; 7.7 g Fat; 23.7 mg Cholesterol; 228 mg Sodium.
Calories from Fat: 28%

Copyright National Pasta Association (http://www.ilovepasta.org)
(Reprinted with permission)

