Title: LULU'S GRILLED RIB STEAK WITH ARTICHOKES
Categories: Main dish, Meats
Yield: 6 Servings
1 2/3 c  Olive oil
1/4 c  Chopped flat-leaf parsley
1/4 c  Chopped fresh winter savory,
-or 4 teaspoons dried
1/4 c  Chopped fresh thyme plus 8
-sprigs, or 5 teaspoons
-dried
2 tb Chopped fresh rosemary, or 2
-teaspoons dried, crumbled
2 ts Chopped fresh lavender
-flowers (optional)
1/4 c  Fresh-ground black pepper
3    Rib steaks on the bone,
-about 1-1/2 inches thick
-(about 5 pounds)
1/4 lb Butter, at room temperature
8    Nicoise olives, halved and
-pitted
2    Anchovy fillets, or 1/2
-teaspoon anchovy paste
2 3/4 ts Salt
1    Lemon, cut in half
20    Baby artichokes (about 2-1/2
-pounds)
4    Cloves garlic, chopped
4    Bay leaves
2 lb Yukon Gold or baking
-potatoes, peeled and cut
-into 1/4-inch slices
1/2 c  Dry white wine
1/2 c  Water, more if needed
* Restaurant LuLu * San Francisco *

1. In a medium bowl, combine 1 cup of the oil, the parsley, savory,
the chopped fresh thyme or 4 teaspoons dried, the rosemary, the
lavender flowers, if using, and the pepper. Trim off the fat from the
edge of the steaks. Put the steaks in a glass dish or stainless-steel
pan and rub them on both sides with the marinade. Cover and marinate
in the refrigerator overnight.

2. In a food processor, puree the butter with the olives, anchovies
and 1/4 teaspoon of the salt. Cover and chill. Remove from the
refrigerator 1 hour before serving.

3. Squeeze the juice from the lemon and add it, along with the lemon
halves, to a large bowl filled with cold water. Working with one
artichoke at a time, remove and discard the tough outer leaves,
leaving the pale-green inner ones attached. Using a small knife, trim
around the bottom of the artichoke below the leaves to get rid of the
remaining bits of the removed leaves. Peel the stem, leaving it about
1 inch long. Cut off the top third of the leaves. Cut the artichokes
lengthwise into 1/4-inch slices and put them in the lemon water to
prevent darkening. Repeat with the remaining artichokes.

4. In a large frying pan, heat 1/3 cup of the oil over moderate heat.
Add the garlic, the thyme sprigs or the remaining 1 teaspoon dried
thyme, and the bay leaves and cook, stirring, for 30 seconds. Add the
potatoes, 2 teaspoons of the salt, the wine and water. Cover, reduce
the heat to moderately low and simmer until the potatoes are just
tender, about 10 minutes. Drain the artichokes thoroughly and add
them, with the remaining 1/3 cup oil, to the potatoes. Cover, bring
back to a simmer and cook, stirring occasionally, until the
artichokes are tender, about 10 minutes longer. If all the liquid
evaporates, add up to 1/4 cup water during cooking. Set aside,
covered.

5. Light the grill or heat the broiler. Sprinkle the steaks with the
remaining 1/2 teaspoon salt. Grill or broil the steaks for 6 minutes.
Turn them and cook to your taste, about 6 minutes longer for medium
rare. Transfer the steaks to a carving board and leave to rest in a
warm spot for about 5 minutes. Reheat the potatoes and artichokes
while the steaks rest. Cut the steaks into thin slices.

6. To serve, put a mound of the potatoes and artichokes in the center
of each plate. Arrange the steak slices, overlapping, on the
vegetables and top with a spoonful of the room-temperature olive
butter.

Substituting Large Artichokes: If you're using large artichokes, cut
off the stems. Remove and discard all but the pale-green inner leaves
and cut off the top third of the leaves. Cut the artichokes into
quarters and remove the fuzzy chokes. Cut each quarter in half from
top to bottom.

A spicy young Rhone red such as Chave's Hermitage or a
Chateauneuf-du-Pape from Beaucastel marries well with the herby
charred beef and the olive butter.

