Title: LUTFISK
Categories: Seafood, Ceideburg 2
Yield: 2 Servings
2 1/2 lb Lutfisk
1 c  Slaked lime
2 qt Oak or maple ashes
MMMMM-----------------------MUSTARD SAUCE----------------------------
2 tb Butter
ds Of pepper
3 tb Flour
3 c  Fish stock
1/2 ts Salt
1 tb Prepared mustard
Found a real gem of Americana last weekend.  It's a cookbook of Grange
recipes.  For those from other parts of the world (and big US
cities), a grange is an association of farmers++they were big in the
past in the US. This is American heartland cooking++long an canned
stuff and casseroles. The seafood section was understandably
short++two pages in a book of some 300 odd pages. But a couple of the
entries caught my eye. This one for Lutefisk looks particularly
interesting. Any recipe that calls for sawing one of the main
ingredients naturally catches my eye.

Now, I've never had Lutefisk in spite of being half Swedish. Both
sides of my family were busy becoming Americans and none of the
ethnic delicacies made it down to us third generation kids. Being a
full- fledged, All-American boy, I naturally resent being deprived of
my roots and am eager to sue someone for the grievous affront of
never having had lutefisk when I was growing up. Can't for the life
of me figure out who to sue though...

Traditional on Christmas Eve.  (Dried Imported Cod)

Saw fish into 3 parts, clean thoroughly and place in a wooden bowl or
pail. Add water to cover and set in a cool place for 5 to 6 days.
Change water each day. Remove fish and thoroughly clean wooden bowl.
Make a solution of water, lime and ashes and allow to stand
overnight. Drain off clear liquid and pour over soaked fish, set in a
cool place for 7 days. When fish is soft, remove from solution, scrub
bowl well and soak fish for several days in cold clear water.  Cook
in boiling salted water at simmering temperature for about 20
minutes. Drain well and serve. The Norwegians serve the fish with
melted butter; the Swedes serve it with white or mustard sauce. Allow
1/3 pound per person.

MUSTARD SAUCE:

Melt 1 1/2 T. butter, blend in flour, salt and pepper, add fish stock
gradually, stirring constantly until thickened then cook for an
additional 3 minutes.  Add mustard and remaining butter. Serve with
boiled lutfisk, haddock or cod.

Makes 2 1/2 cups sauce.

NOTE:  If fish stock is salty do not add salt listed.

NELL MAY, Bennett Valley Grange, No. 16.

From "Our Favorite Grange Recipes", compiled and edited by the Home
Economics Committee of the California State Grange, Gladys True,
Chairman. Printed by the Record of Yolo County, 1965.

Posted by Stephen Ceideberg; October 26 1992.

