Title: MAGERETSA & PSITO - LAMB & LEMON SOUP WIT
Categories: Greek, Lamb, Ceideburg
Yield: 6 Servings
Stephen Ceideburg
1    Lamb leg
1    Lamb liver
1    Or more lamb heads
Several lambs' tongues
1 bn Green onions, finely
-chopped
Potatoes
1 bn Fennel, finely chopped
Olive oil
Oregano
Garlic
2    Lemons, juice only
1/2 c  Uncooked rice per person
3    Eggs
1 lg Lemon, juice only
Into a large stockpot put sufficient cuts of lamb to feed the number
of diners.

Aliki uses a leg, a liver, one or more lamb heads cut in half and
several lambs' tongues (the meat is ordered in advance from a Greek
butcher in Marrickville). Cover with water and bring to the boil.

Skim the stock, then add a bunch of green (spring) onions and a bunch
of fennel herb, finely chopped.

Cover and simmer gently until the leg of lamb is cooked, 2-3 hours.

Drain off the lamb stock and reserve.

Finely dice the cooked liver and add it to the lamb stock. Peel the
skin from the lambs' tongues.

In a very large baking dish, put a generous amount of olive oil,
oregano, garlic (Aliki does not put in garlic but many do) and the
juice of 2 lemons.

Turn the lamb leg, tongues and head in this mixture to coat them and
put them in the centre of the baking dish. Surround the meat with
potatoes (Aliki puts in pumpkin, too) cut in chunks, turn them in the
oil and put the dish in a moderate oven until the meats have crisped
and the potatoes are cooked -- about one hour.

Turn the meat and vegetables midway through cooking.

Meanwhile, measure the-amount of liver-enriched stock neces- sary for
the number of diners (about one cup per person) and cook in it half a
cup of rice (preferably short grain) for every 6 people.

Separate 3 eggs and beat the whites until stiff, then add yolks and
beat again.

Finally, add the juice of a large lemon. Ladle some of the simmering
soup into the eggs then add the egg mixture back into the soup,
stirring vigorously.

Adjust the seasoning and serve the soup.

After the soup, serve the roasted meat and potatoes with a simple
salad (not too oily because the main dish is rich) of lettuce,
cucumber, radishes and tomatoes.

Posted by Stephen Ceideburg

From an article by Meryl Constance in The Sydney Morning Herald,
4/6/93. Courtesy Mark Herron.

