Title: MAHALIA JACKSON'S OKRA GUMBO
Categories: Cajun, Seafood, Beef, Pork, Meats
Yield: 12 Servings
4    Blue crabs, lg
Oil
1 lb Cooked ham, cut in 1" cubes
1/2 lb Chicken gizzards, sliced
2 cn Whole tomatoes (1-lb 12 oz)
2    Onions, lg, diced
5    Celery stalks, diced
2 lb Chicken wings and backs
1/4 c  Sugar
Salt, pepper
Hot pepper sauce (optional)
4 lb Shrimp
1 1/2 lb Beef stew meat, in 1" cubes
1 lb Link sausage, sliced
1 lb Salt pork, cut in 1/2"
Cubes
4    Bay leaves, crumbled
2    Gn bell peppers, lg, diced
4    Cloves garlic, crushed
1 1/2 lb Okra, fresh
1/4 c  Parsley flakes, dried
Hot cooked rice
Crackers (optional)
Clean crabs, discarding spongy substance in main shell. Reserve claws
and other meaty portions. Clean shrimp, reserving shells. Place
shrimp shells in deep saucepan with water to cover generously and
simmer 30 minutes or longer to make broth. Pour oil into heavy
skillet to depth of 1/8 inch. Heat and add beef, ham, sausage,
gizzards and salt pork. Saute until lightly browned, stirring
occasionally. Pour meat mixture into large kettle and add 1 can
tomatoes and enough strained shrimp broth to cover generously. Add
bay leaves, cover and simmer about 30 minutes. Heat 2 tablespoons
more oil in skillet and add onions, green peppers, celery and garlic.
Saute until lightly browned, stirring now and then. Add vegetable
mixture and chicken parts to kettle and simmer 30 minutes longer.
Heat 2 tablespoons oil in another heavy skillet, add okra and cook,
stirring often, until lightly browned and loses stickiness, about 30
minutes. Add shrimp to okra and saute 3 or 4 minutes longer, or until
shrimp turns pink. Stir in 2 tablespoons sugar. Add okra mixture to
kettle. Drain second can of tomatoes, reserving liquid. Add tomatoes,
crab and enough tomato liquid and water from shrimp shells to keep
mixture in kettle soupy. Simmer about 30 minutes. Add parsley flakes
and remaining 2 tablespoons sugar. Season to taste with salt and
pepper. Serve at once or refrigerate and reheat later. Serve over hot
rice in deep soup bowls. Pass hot pepper sauce and crackers with
gumbo, if desired.

