Title: MANGO MOUSSE CAKE
Categories: Cakes
Yield: 14 Servings
MMMMM----------------------------CAKE---------------------------------
1/2 c  Sifted cake flour
1/8 ts Baking powder
1/8 ts Salt
2 lg Eggs, separated (room temp)
1 ts Vanilla extract
1/4 c  Sugar, divided
MMMMM---------------------------MOUSSE--------------------------------
2    Envelopes unflavored gelatin
1/2 c  Water
4 lg To 5 ripe mangos (1 lb each)
1 c  Confectioners' sugar divided
2 ts Vanilla extract
2 c  Heavy cream
1/4 c  Sour cream
MMMMM--------------------------ASSEMBLY-------------------------------
3 tb Seedless raspberry jam
2 c  Toasted sliced almonds
1/2 c  Heavy cream
2 ts Granulated sugar
Mango slices, for garnish
Fresh raspberries, garnish
Make sponge cake: Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Lightly butter
bottom and side of a 10-inch springform cake pan. Line bottom of the
pan with a circle of baking parchment or waxed paper. Dust side of
the pan with flour and tap out excess. In a small bowl, whisk
together flour, baking powder & salt. Sift flour mixture onto a piece
of waxed paper. In a large bowl, using a hand-held electric mixer set
at high speed, beat egg yolks and 2 tb of granulated sugar for 4 to 6
minutes, until batter is pale yellow and forms a thick ribbon. Beat
in vanilla.

Beat egg whites at low speed until frothy. Gradually increase speed
to high and continue beating soft peaks start to form. One ts at a
time, gradually add remaining 2 tb of sugar and continue beating
whites until they form stiff, shiny peaks. Scrape 1/3 of whites on
top of beaten egg yolks. Resift 1/3 of flour mixture over whites &
fold flour mixture and egg whites into egg yolk mixture, making sure
to free any flour that may be clinging to side of the bowl. One-third
at a time, gently fold in remaining whites with 1/3 of resifted flour
mixture. Do not overfold. Scrape batter into prepared pan. Bake cake
for 8 to 12 minutes, until center springs back when gently touched.
Cool cake in pan on a wire rack for 5 minutes. Remove from pan & cool
completely.

Make the mango mousse: Put water in a small heatproof cup. Sprinkle
gelatin over water and let stand for 5 minutes to soften. Place cup
with softened gelatin in a saucepan with enough water to come halfway
up side of cup. Heat gelatin mixture in hot, not simmering water.
Stir gelatin mixture frequently for 2 to 3 minutes, until gelatin
granules dissolve completely and mixture is clear. Remove pan from
heat. Leave cup containing gelatin mixture in hot water to keep
gelatin warm until ready to use.

Peel mangos and cut fruit away from pit. Cut fruit into large chunks.
Combine half of mango chunks with 1/2 cup of sugar in bowl of a food
processor. Process mangos for 40 to 60 seconds, until pureed. Transfer
pureed mangos to a large saucepan. Repeat with remaining mangos and
1/2 cup of sugar. Cook the mango mixture over medium-low heat,
stirring constantly until warm. Remove saucepan from the heat. Add
the gelatin mixture and vanilla and whisk until blended. Transfer
mango mixture to a large bowl and cool to room temperature. In a
chilled large bowl, beat the heavy cream and sour cream until mixture
forms soft peaks. Fold 1/3 of whipped cream into mango mixture to
lighten it. Fold in remaining whipped cream.

Assemble cake: Remove side from a 10-by-3-inch springform pan. Trim a
12-inch cardboard circle so that it fits snugly within curved lip of
bottom of springform pan. Reattach side of springform pan. Remove
paper circle from bottom of cake. Spread raspberry jam in an even
layer over top of cake. Place cake layer in bottom of prepared pan.
Scrape mango mousse over cake layer and smooth it into an even layer.
Cover with plastic wrap and freeze for at least
6    hours or overnight.

Unmold cake: Using a portable blow dryer or damp very hot towel,
carefully heat outside of springform pan until edge of mousse melts
slightly. Release clamp on side of springform pan and gently lift it
up and remove it from around side of the cake. Defrost cake in
refrigerator for at least 3 hours, until ready to decorate.

Decorate cake: Spread toasted almonds on a piece of waxed paper. Set
aside 28 of best almond halves to garnish cake. Lift cake up on
cardboard cake circle, supporting bottom of cake in one hand. Scoop
up almonds and gently press them against side of cake, working around
cake until side is completely covered. Put cake on a serving plate.
In a chilled small bowl, using a handheld electric mixer set at
medium speed, beat cream with the sugar until stiff peaks begin to
form. Fill a pastry bag fitted with a large closed star tip (such as
Ateco #4) with whipped cream. Pipe 14 rosettes around top edge of
cake. Garnish each rosette with 2 toasted almond slices. Refrigerate
cake until ready to serve. by Lisa Morley, chef and owner of A Sweet
Affair in Naples, Florida, in the Chocolatier Recipe Collection on
the WorldWideWeb

