Title: MANGO & TAMARIND CHUTNEY
Categories: Canning, Sauces, Fruits, Relishes
Yield: 1 Batch
1/2 c  Dried tamarind pulp; packed
-or-
1/2 c  Fresh lime juice; strained
+ 1/2 cup water
2 1/2 c  ;Water
3 lb Mangoes*
1 c  Onions; in 1/4" dice
1 c  Golden raisins
1 c  Dried currants
4 tb Fresh ginger; minced
-- or more to taste
3 lg Garlic cloves; minced fine
1    Lemon; grated zest of
2 c  Light brown sugar; packed
3/4 c  Sugar
2 tb Mustard seed
1 tb Salt
2 ts Dried red pepper; crushed*
2 ts Ground cinnamon
1/2 ts Turmeric
1/4 ts Ground cloves
1/4 ts Cayenne pepper
-- or more to taste
1 1/2 c  Distilled white vinegar
*Mangoes can be unripe, half-ripe or part unripe and part ripe. Using
part or all almost-ripe fruit will yield a chutney with a softer
texture. If you like jammy chutney, cut the fruit into small bits;
for a chunky product, use 1/2" or larger cubes and stop cooking the
mixture as soon as the fruit pieces are translucent.

**In place of the crushed dried red pepper, can substitute 2 dried hot
peppers (each 2 1/2 to 3" long) which have been seeded and crumbled,
or 1 tb. finely minced red or green fresh hot peppers. Increase any
of these if you are sure you want a hotter chutney.

Crumble tamarind into a small bowl and stir in 1 1/2 cups of the
water; let tamarind soak for at least an hour, meanwhile preparing
the remaining ingredients. Or substitute the fresh lime juice plus
1/2 cup of water at this point.

Peel and dice the mangoes, cutting them into small pieces for a
jamlike chutney, into 1/2" or larger dice for a chunky mixture. Place
the pieces in a preserving pan. Add the onions, raisins, currants,
ginger, garlic, lemon zest, brown and granulated sugars, mustard
seed, salt, crushed hot red pepper, cinnamon, turmeric, cloves,
ground red pepper, white vinegar and the remaining 1 cup water; stir
the mixture and let it rest until the tamarind "juice" is ready, or
for up to several hours, if that is convenient.

When the tamarind pulp is very soft, strain the liquid through a
sieve, pressing it to remove all possible liquid and any pulp that
will pass through.  Discard the pulp remaining in the sieve. Add the
liquid to the chutney mixture.

Set the pan over medium heat and bring the ingredients to a boil.
Lower the heat so the mixture simmers and cook it, uncovered,
stirring often, until the mango and onion pieces are translucent and
the chutney has thickened to the consistency of preserves, 1 to 2
hours depending on the firmness of the fruit.  (The chutney will
thicken further in the jar, so don't reduce it too much.)  If the
chutney threatens to stick before the mango pieces are translucent,
add a little water.

Remove chutney from the heat, cool a sample, and taste it for
tartness, sweetness, and degree of hotness. (The overall flavor is
elusive at this point, but these factors can be judged.) If you wish,
add a little more vinegar, sugar or ground hot red pepper.

Reheat the chutney to boiling and ladle it into hot, clean pint or
half-pint canning jars, leaving 1/4" of headspace. Seal the jars;
process for 15 minutes (for either size jar) in a boiling-water bath.
Cool, label, and store the jars for a least a month so that its many
flavors can blend and balance.  This will keep for at least a year in
a cool pantry.

Yield: 6 to 7 cups.

From _Fancy Pantry_ by Helen Witty.  New York: Workman Publishing
Company, Inc., 1986.  Pp. 56-58.  ISBN 0-89480-037-X. Typed for you
by Cathy Harned.

