Title: Chicken pie with biscuit crust
Categories: Chicken
Servings:  4
1 1/3 c  Flour
1 1/2 ts Baking powder
1/2 ts Baking soda
1/2 ts Salt
2 tb Unsalted butter, cut into bi
-s
2 tb Shortening, cut into bits
1/3 c  Cheddar cheese, grated
1 lg Egg
1/3 c  Buttermilk
Egg wash:
1 lg Egg yolk
1 tb Milk
Filling:
4 c  Chicken broth
3    Carrots, in 1/4-inch slices
3/4 lb Red potatoes, in 1/2-inch di
-e
2    Celery, in 1/2-inch slices
2 1/2 c  Cooked chicken, cubed
1    Onion, chopped
6 tb Unsalted butter
6 tb Flour
1/4 ts Thyme
1/4 ts Nutmeg
1/2 c  Fresh parsley, minced
Biscuit crust:
In a saucepan bring broth to a boil.  Add carrots, potatoes, and celery,
and simmer for 10-15 minutes, or until veggies are tender. Transfer veggies
to a bowl, reserving the broth, and add the chicken to the bowl. In another
saucepan, cook the onion in the butter over mod-low heat, stirring, until
it is softened. Add flour and cook the roux, stirring, for 3 minutes. Add 3
cups of broth in a stream, whisking. Bring mixture to a boil, whisking. Add
the thyme and simmer the sauce, stirring occasionally, for 5 minutes. Stir
in nutmeg, parsley, and salt and pepper to taste. Pour the sauce over the
chicken and veggies.  Stir the mixture gently, until it is just combined.
Transfer the mixture to a 2-qt. baking dish.

Into a bowl, sift together the flour, baking powder, baking soda, and salt.
Add the butter and shortening and blend the mixture until it resembles
meal. Add the cheese and toss.  Break egg into a measuring cup and add
buttermilk to it so that the total volume is 1/2 cup. Beat with a fork. Add
to the flour mixture, stirring until the mixture just forms dough. Gather
dough into a ball and, on a floured surface, pat it out 1/2-inch thick. Cut
as many rounds as possible using a 2-inch fluted biscuit cutter, dipped in
flour.  Gather the scraps and pat and cut again.

Arrange the rounds on the chicken mixture.  Beat the egg yolk with the milk
and brush the tops of the biscuits with the wash. Prick biscuits with a
fork.

Bake in the middle of a preheated 450f oven for 15-25 minutes, or until
biscuits are puffed and golden, and the filling is bubbling.

a 1985 Gourmet Mag. favorite

