Title: Granny smith apple pie
Categories: Desserts
Servings:  6
2 1/2 lb Apples (granny smiths, of co
-rse)
1 ts Lemon juice
3 tb Unsalted butter, cut into bi
-s
1 tb Half&half
Honey spiced whipped cream:
3/4 c  Heavy cream, well chilled
1 tb Honey
1/4 ts Cinnamon
1/4 ts Ginger
1/8 ts Nutmeg
Shortening pie dough:
2 1/3 c  Flour
1/2 ts Salt
3/4 c  Shortening, cold, cut into p
-eces
Pie filling:
14 1/2 tb Sugar
3 tb Flour
3/4 ts Cinnamon
1/4 ts Nutmeg
1/4 ts Ginger
1/4 ts Salt
3/4 ts Lemon zest
In a bowl, stir together flour and salt.  Add shortening and blend until
mixture resembles coarse meal.  Add 4-6 Tbsp ice water or enough to form
into soft but not sticky dough, tossing the mixture with a fork. Form dough
into a ball, flatten it slightly, dust with flour and chill it, wrapped in
wax paper, for 1 hour.

Divide dough into 2 pieces, one slightly larger than the other. Chill the
larger piece, wrapped in wax paper.  Roll out the other, 1/8-inch thick on
a floured surface, and fit it to a 9-inch pie plate, and trim the edge
leaving a 1/2-inch overhang.  Chill the pie shell while making the filling.

In a large bowl, stir together 14 Tbsp sugar, flour, cinnamon, nutmeg,
ginger, salt, and zest.  Peel, quarter, and core the apples; slice thinly,
crosswise, and add them to the sugar mixture, tossing to coat well. Mound
the apple mixture in the pie shell, sprinkle with lemon juice and dot with
butter.

Roll out the larger piece of dough to a 13 or 14-inch round on a floured
surface and drape it over the filling.  Trim top crust, leaving a 1-inch
overhang.  Fold overhang under bottom crust, pressing the edge to seal it.
Crimp the edge decoratively with a fork.  Make slits in the top crust to
form steam vents.  Brush with h&h and sprinkle with the remaining sugar.

Bake pie in lower third of a preheated 425f oven for 15 minutes, reduce
heat to 375f and bake for 40-45 minutes more, or until filling is bubbling
and crust is golden.  Transfer pie to a rack to cool.

In a chilled bowl, beat cream with the honey, cinnamon, and nutmeg until it
holds soft peaks.  Transfer to a serving dish.

Serve the pie warm or at room temperature with the Honey Spice Whipped
Cream.

a 1988 Gourmet Mag. favorite

