Title: Andouille Sausage (Folse)
Categories: Homemade, Sausage
Yield: 6 servings
12    Inch links
6    Hours
From : Bill Birner, Date: 03-22-94  05:49, Area: Home_cooking

Some have asked about making their own andouille. There are many
andouille recipes here in LaPlace, LA, "the andouille capital of the
world". This is not my favorite (I don't have one, as I don't bother
to make my own) but it is from a top Cajun chef, John Folse.

COMMENT:

Andouille is the Cajun smoked sausage so famous nationally today.
Made with pork butt, shank and a small amount of pork fat, this
sausage is seasoned with salt, cracked black pepper, and garlic. The
andouille is then slowly smoked over pecan wood and sugar cane. True
andouille is stuffed into the beef middle casing which makes the
sausage approximately one and a half inches in diameter. When smoked,
it becomes very dark to almost black in color. It is not uncommon for
the Cajuns to smoke andouille for seven to eight hours at
approximately 175 degrees.

Traditionally, the andouilles from France were made from the large
intestines and stomach of the pig, seasoned heavily and smoked. In
parts of Germany, where some say andouille originated, the sausage
was made with all remaining intestines and casings pulled through a
larger casing, seasoned and smoked. It was served thinly sliced as an
hors d'oeuvre.

It is interesting to note that the finest andouille in France comes
from the Brittany and Normandy areas. It is believed that over half
of the Acadian exiles who came to Louisiana in 1755 were originally
from these coastal regions.

5 pounds pork butt 1/2 pound pork fat 1/2 cup chopped garlic 1/4 cup
cracked black peppercorns 2 tbsps cayenne pepper 1 tbsp dry thyme 4
tbsps salt 6 feet beef middle casing (see butcher or specially shop)

Cube pork butt into one and a half inch cubes. Using a meat grinder
with four one quarter inch holes in the grinding plate, grind pork
and pork fat. If you do not have a grinding plate this size, I
suggest hand cutting pork butt into one quarter inch square pieces.
Place ground pork in large mixing bowl and blend in all remaining
ingredients. Once well blended, stuff meat into casings in one foot
links, using the sausage attachment on your meat grinder. Tie both
ends of the sausage securely using a heavy gauge twine. In your
homestyle smoker, smoke andouille at 175-200 degrees F for
approximately four to five hours. The andouille may then be frozen
and used for seasoning gumbos, white or red beans, pastas or grilling
as an hors d'oeuvre.

