Title: Balti Lahori Gosht
Categories: Main dish, Meats, Indian, Balti
Yield: 4 servings
-Balti Chicken stock / water
1 c  Thick double Cream
2 ts Granulated sugar
1 tb Balti garam masala
1 tb Coriander leaves; very
-finely chopped
Aromatic salt; to taste
4    Portions par-cooked B Meat.
3 tb Ghee
3    Garlic cloves; fine chopped
-up to
6    Garlic cloves
1 c  Onion; very finely chopped
4 tb Balti masala Paste
1 c  Reserved stock -=OR=-
MMMMM---------------------------SPICES--------------------------------
7    Green Cardamom seeds
5    Cloves
2    Inch piece Cassia Bark
1/4 ts Turmeric
1 ts White cummin seeds
1 ts Sesame seeds
1/4 ts Fennel seeds
1/4 ts Aniseed
Lahore is in the north of Pakistan, quite near the Indian border. In
the days of the great Moghul emperors, Lahore was a major city on the
route connecting Agra and Delhi in the South-West and the Emperors'
summer retreat of Kashmir in the North. This creamy, aromatic dish
would have been one enjoyed in those days, served with pullao rice
and chutneys.

Heat the Ghee or oil in your karahi (or wok) on high heat, then stir
fry the garlic for 30 seconds. Add the onions on a reduced heat, and
stir fry for about 10 minutes, allowing the onion to become
translucent and begin to brown. Add the masala paste and the par
cooked meat. Raise the heat again and bring to a brisk sizzle, stir
frying as needed for about 5 minutes.
Add the reserved stock or water bit by bit and simmer, stirring, on
a lower heat for about 10 minutes. Test for tenderness. If more
cooking is needed, add stock or water as required. When you like it,
add the garam masala, fresh coriander leaves and aromatic salt to
taste. Simmer for 15 minutes more, then serve.

NB. If you don't have any Balti masala paste made up you can use any
bottled curry pate as a substitute, although the results will not be
as good. Alternatively, use 3-4 tbs Balti masala mix or any
commercial curry powder, combined with enough water to form a stiff
paste. leave to stand 10 minutes before using. Add to the recipe
where it says masala paste, but allow it to cook for 5 minutes before
adding the meat. Submitted By IAN HOARE   On   05-09-95

