Title: Bona Fide Fajitas  from _Smoke and Spice_
Categories: Bbq/grill, Tex/mexican, Herbs/spice
Yield: 6 servings
-trimmed of fat and membrane
2 lb To 3 lb Whole beef skirt;
MMMMM----------------FAJITAS MARINADE & OPT'L MOP---------------------
2 tb Worcestershire sauce
1 tb Chili powder
1 ts Fresh-ground black pepper
1 ts Crushed chiltepins or chiles
-Pequins or Tabasco sauce
1 ts Ground cumin
12 oz Beer
1/2 c  Oil, prefer. corn or canola
1/2 md Onion; chopped
Juice of 2 limes
4 cl Garlic; minced
1 ea Bay leaf
MMMMM-----------------------PICO DE GALLO----------------------------
3 ea To 4 fresh jalapenos; minced
Juice of 1/2 lime
1/2 ts Salt or more to taste
2 tb To 4 tb tomato juice (opt'l)
Warm Flour tortillas
Lime wedges and cilantro
-sprigs, for garnish
Sour Cream
4 sm Red-ripe tomatoes, prefer.
-Romas or Italian Plum;
-sliced
1/2 ea Bell pepper, preferably Red;
-chopped
1/4 c  Fresh cilantro; chopped
1/4 c  Red onion; chopped
2 ea To 3 fresh serranos; minced
-OR-
The night before you plan to barbecue, combine the marinade
ingredients in a blender and puree. Place the skirt steak in a
plastic bag or shallow dish and pour the marinade over it.
Refrigerate the skirt steak overnight, turning occasionally if needed
to saturate the surface with the marinade.
Prepare the smoker for barbecuing, bringing the temperature to 200
degrees F to 220 degrees F.
Remove the skirt steak from the refrigerator and drain it,
reserving the marinade if you plan to baste the meat. Let the skirt
sit at room temperature for 30 minutes.
Make the pico de gallo by combining all the ingredients except the
tomato juice in a bowl. If you prefer a more liquid consistency, add
some or all of the tomato juice. Refrigerate until serving time.
If you are going to baste the meat, boil the marinade in a
saucepan over high heat for several minutes and then keep the mop
warm over low heat.
Transfer the skirt steak to the smoker. Cook for approximately 1
hour, mopping every twenty minutes in a woodburning pit, or as
appropriate for your type of smoker.
If your smoker has a separate grill area for cooking directly over
the fire, or if you have another grill handy, move the meat there and
sear it for 1 to 2 minutes per side. This step adds a pleasant
exterior texture, but isn't necessary for flavor. Alternatively,
smoke the meat for about 15 minutes longer.
Let the skirt sit for 10 minutes and then slice thinly at a
diagonal against the grain. Pile the meat and warm tortillas on a
platter garnished with lime wedges and cilantro, and serve the pico
de gallo and sour cream on the side.

From _Smoke and Spice_  by Cheryl Alters Jamison and Bill Jamison The
Harvard Common Press, 1994   ISBN 1-55832-061-X Typos by Jeff Pruett
Submitted By JEFF PRUETT   On   05-06-95

