Title: Boughasha (Baked "Cigar" Pastries with Walnut Filling)
Categories: Middle east, Pastry, Syrups
Yield: 84 pastries
;thoroughly defrosted if
;frozen
SYRUP:
2 1/2 c  Sugar
1 1/4 c  Water
1 tb Lemon juice, fresh
1/2 ts Rose water; bottled
3 oz Walnuts, shelled; finely
;chopped (about 3/4 c)
2 tb Sugar
1/2 lb Butter; cut into bits and
;clarified
14    Filo pastry sheets; each
;about 16 x 12 inches,
Stir the chopped walnuts and the 2 tablespoons of sugar together in
a small bowl and set aside.
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees (F).  with a pastry brush, coat 2
baking sheets with 2 tablespoons of the butter.
Assemble each "cigar" in the following fashion: Brush one sheet of
filo evenly with a teaspoon of the butter.  Fold the sheet in half
crosswise to make a two layered rectangle about 12 inches long and 8
inches wide. Brush the top with about « teaspoon of the butter. Make
a 1 inch wide fold on the closed side of the pastry and brush the
fold lightly with butter. Sprinkle a teaspoon or so of the walnut
mixture in an even row along its length and roll the filo into a
tight cylinder about 1 inch in diameter.
Assemble the remaining sheets of filo in similar fashion.  Gently
transfer the rolls to the baking sheet and brush the tops lightly
with the remaining butter.  Bake in the top third of the even for 20
minutes, or until the rolls are crisp and a delicate golden brown.
then slide them carefully onto a large serving platter.

Syrup:
Meanwhile, make the syrup.  In a small, heavy saucepan, bring the
sugar, water and lemon juice to a boil over high heat, stirring until
the sugar dissolves.  Cook briskly, undisturbed, until the syrup
reaches a temperature of 220 on a candy thermometer or a small bit
dripped into ice water immediately forms a coarse thread.  Add the
rose water and pour the syrup into a heatproof bowl or pitcher and
let it cool to lukewarm.
To serve, cut the rolls into 2 inch lengths and arrange them
attractively on a serving plate.  Moisten the warm pastry with a
little syrup and serve the rest separately in a small pitcher.

104 of 116

Source: Time Life Series: Middle Eastern Cooking,  "circa  69"

MMed by: earl.cravens@salata.com
Submitted By EARL CRAVENS   On   04-28-95

