Title: Caesar Salad (Complete)
Categories: Salads, Fish
Yield: 6 servings
4 lg Servings]
MMMMM------------------------INGREDIENTS-----------------------------
-romaine lettuce
1 sm Lemon cut into quarters
1/2 c  Freshly grated Parmesan
-cheese
1 ts Worcestershire sauce
1 ts Dry mustard
1/4 ts Black pepper
2 lg Or 3 medium cloves of garlic
1    Entire 2-ounce tin of flat
-anchovy fillets
2    Coddled eggs
1 c  Croutons (see below)
1/2 c  Olive oil
1 lg Or 2 medium bunches of
CAESAR SALAD (COMPLETE)

These quantities are approximate. Experiment to suit your own taste.
For example, fewer anchovy fillets will make the dressing less tart.
You can vary the relative proportion of olive oil as much as a factor
of two to adjust the total bulk of dressing for different amounts of
lettuce with little effect on the flavor.

PROCEDURE:

1. Wash and dry the lettuce. Tear into bite-sized pieces and chill
until ready to toss. 2. Press the garlic cloves into the bowl. With a
large wooden spoon squeeze the pieces against the side of the bowl
mashing them into small bits. 3. Cut up the anchovy fillets and then
add to the bowl. Mash them with the spoon to make a paste. Add the
Worcestershire sauce, pepper, and mustard and mix into the paste. 3
4. Break the shell of the coddled eggs over the bowl by striking with
a butter knife. Pour into the bowl whatever flows out of the shell
halves. Discard the shells and the small portion of egg white that
still clings to the shell. Thoroughly mix the ingredients by swirling
the bottom of the wooden spoon around the inside of the bowl. 5.
Squeeze the juice of a lemon quarter into the bowl, add theolive oil,
and mix again as above. 6. Immediately before you are ready to eat
the salad, toss thelettuce in the bowl until the leaves are well
coated with dressing. 7. Squeeze the remaining lemon and sprinkle the
Parmesan cheeseover the leaves. Add croutons and toss again until all
the croutons have begun to absorb some of the dressing. 8. Serve
immediately on large dinner plates, usually before 4serving the
entree.

CAESAR SALAD NOTES:

PHILOSOPHY:

The most important feature of a Caesar salad is the delicate
tastdressing that you prepare in the bowl. It does not keep well and
thus the salad should be eaten immediately after it is made. The
lettuce and croutons serve as the vehicl for the dressing's flavor.
Adding additional ingredients such as tomatoes, onions, or mushrooms,
which have distinctive flavors of their own, masks the taste of the
dressing and is considered highly irregular.

SALAD BOWL:

The best bowl is solid teak with a hemispherical shape about 12
inches in diameter. To care for the bowl coat it lightly with olive
oil. Clean the bowl as soon as possible after serving the salad. The
maker of my bowl advised not to use water in it. However, I have
found that a quick rinse with warm water followed by thorough towel
drying and light oiling keeps the bowl in good shape. (My bowl is
over 22 years old.)

CODDLED EGGS:

To prevent egg shells from cracking when first immersed in boiling
water, let the eggs sit out at room temperature for half an hour. Or,
warm the shells by running cool, then gradually warmer tap water over
them. Bring to a boil enough water to cover the eggs. Place the eggs
in the boiling water for 1 minuteen immediately remove to cool water
for few minutes. At high elevations leave them in longer (total of
about 2 minutes at 7500 feet).

CROUTONS:

For very fresh, absorbent croutons make your own from ordinary white

<<***** Continued Next Message *****>> --- * VbReader 2.22 #549 *
"Practice senseless, random acts of kindness."

~-- QScan/PCB v1.15 b / 01-0348 * Origin: FidoNet: CRS Online,
Toronto, Ontario (1:229/15)

Packet: NARROWS Date: 05-14-95 (16:39) Number: 8326 From: Sam
Lefkowitz Refer#: NONE To: All Recvd: NO Subj: Dafeena *CR* Conf:
(164) FIDO: Home Co

~Begin Recipe Export- QBook version 1.00.14

