Title: Caribbean Chicken with Tropical Fruit
Categories: Poultry
Yield: 4 servings
6 tb Butter
1 c  Regular long-grain rice
15    To 16 oz. can black
-beans,drained and rinsed
1    Medium-sized pineapple
1 lg Papaya
3 1/2 lb Broiler-fryer chicken,cut
-into quarters
1 ts Salt
3    Limes
Preserved ginger in syrup
2 ts Cornstarch
About 50 minutes before serving, preheat broiler.  Rub chicken
quarters with salt; place skin-side down in broiler pan (do not use
rack).  About 7 to 9" from source of heat broil chicken 15 minutes.
Meanwhile, cut 1 lime into wedges for garnish; wrap and refrigerate.
From remaining limes, grate 1 tsp peel and squeeze 3 Tb juice.  Mince
enough preserved ginger to measure 2 tbsp.  In small saucepan, mix
cornstarch, lime peel, lime juice, minced ginger and 2 Tb syrup from
ginger until blended; add butter and cook over medium heat until
butter melts and mixture boils and thickens slightly, stirring
constantly; boil 1 minute.Remove saucepan from heat.

When chicken has broiled 15 minutes, brush chicken with some lime
butter. Broil 5 more minutes.  Turn chicken, skin-side up; broil 15
minutes. While chicken is broiling, prepare rice as label directs.
When rice is cooked, stir in black beans; heat through.

Prepare pineapple and papaya; with sharp knife, cut off leafy crown of
pineapple; reserve for garnish.  Cut pineapple, lengthwise, into
quarters. Loosen fruit by cutting close to rind.  Remove fruit; cut
out core; cut pineapple quarters, lengthwise, into wedges.  Cut
papaya, lengthwise, in half and scoop out seeds; peel and cut,
lengthwise, into 8 wedges.

Arrange pineapple and papaya in broiling pan with chicken; brush
chicken and fruit with lime butter.  Broil 5 minutes longer, brushing
occasionally with lime butter, until chicken is fork-tender and fruit
is heated through.

To serve, arrange chicken and fruit on platter.  Spoon rice with black
beans on platter with chicken.  Garnish with lime wedges and reserved
pineapple crown.

Makes 4 servings.

