Title: CARNE DESHEBRADA A LA NORTENA
Categories: Meats, Tex/mexican
Yield: 10 servings
TO BROIL: put on silver foil
-or baking sheet, broil for
-about 12 minutes until skin
-bubbles and blackens.  Let
-cool. Peel and core.)
**OR USE**
1 cn (15 oz) tomatoes, drained
-and chopped
2 lg Green onions (scallions),
-chopped in 1/4-inch pieces
2    Or 3 chiles serranos, finely
-chopped
1/2 ts Salt (about)
1 lb Lean, boneless beef chuck,
-flank or brisket,
Well trimmed and cut
Into 1 1/2-inch pieces
1 ts Salt
1 md Onion
3    Cloves garlic--peeled
3 tb Lard OR vegetable oil
2    Ripe med. small tomatos
-roasted or boiled
(TO BOIL: boil then simmer,
-for 12 minutes whole. Let
-cool.
Peel skin, cut out core.
(Mexican Northen Style Shredded Beef w/Tomatos)

Besides being rolled into soft tacos, this is also served in
Chimichangas (flour tortilla).

Makes enough for 10 tacos--about 2 1/2 cups.

THE MEAT:  Bring 2 quarts water to a boil in large saucepan.  Add the
meat and salt, then skim off any grayish foam that rises during the
first few minutes of simmering. Slice HALF of the onion and HALVE one
clove of garlic; add to the meat.  Partially cover and simmer over
medium to medium-low heat till meat is very tender, 45 minutes to 1
1/2 hours, depending on the cut. Let the meat cool in the broth, if
there is time. Strain the liquid and spoon off all fat that rises to
the top; set the broth aside.  Finely shred the meat.  (More on
shredding to follow) Then dry with paper towels.

Finishing the shredded beef: Dice the remaining onion and mince the
remaining garlic.  Heat the lard or oil in a large heavy skillet over
medium-high.  When hot, add the onion and shredded beef and stir
frequently for 8 to 10 minutes, until well browned.  Reduce the heat
to medium, add the garlic, tomatos, green onions and chiles and cook,
stirring frequently, until the tomatos have softened--about 4
minutes. Stir in 2/3 cup of the reseved broth, then simmer until the
liquid has evaporated about 10 to 15 minutes.  Season with salt and
that's it!

NOTE: Soft-textured chuck can be easily shredded between your fingers,
however flank and brisket are dense enough that they require more.
Tear the meat into small pieces then pulse small batches 3 or 4 times
in a food processor, OR tear the meat in to small pieces, stab into
piece with a fork (To secure it firmly on the cutting board) and claw
at it with a second fork until finely shredded. The fork shredding
gives the best results.

