Title: Chicken Breasts Tarragon
Categories: Poultry
Yield: 8 servings
1 tb Flour
2 tb Margarine or butter
6    Shallots, chopped
1 1/2 tb Fresh chopped chervil or 1/2
-tsp dried chervil leaves
1/4 lb Mushrooms, washed, thinly
-sliced
2    Pared carrots, sliced into
-1/4" rounds
1/2 ts Salt
4    Whole chicken breasts (about
-1 lb each)
1/4 c  Cognac or brandy
1/8 ts Pepper
1 c  Dry white wine
1 c  Light cream
2 tb Salad or olive oil
1/4 c  Chopped fresh tarragon or 2
-tsp dried tarragon leaves
1    Egg yolk
Source: MAINPOUL.ZIP

Springs of fresh tarragon

To bone chicken, wash and dry. Place, skin side down on large cutting
board. Using a sharp knife with a thin 6" blade, cut just through
membrane that covers breast bone. Bend breast back to break bone and
cartilage. With fingers, remove bone.

On one side of breast, insert tip of knife under rib bone and cut
free from meat. Cut meat from rib cage; remove rib cage. Repeat on
other side. Scrape flesh away from wishbone; remove wishbone. Loosen
the tendons on either side of breast and pull out.

Remove skin; cut breast in half. In 6 quart Dutch oven, heat oil and
2 Tbsp margarine. Add chicken breasts (half at a time , enough to
cover bottom of pan); saute, turning on all sides, until brown.
Remove chicken as it browns. Brown rest of chicken.

To drippings in Dutch oven, add shallot and carrot; saute, stirring, 5
minutes or until golden. Return chicken to Dutch oven; heat. When
hot, heat Cognac in ladle over gas flame or electric burner; ignite.
Pour, flaming over chicken. Add wine, chopped tarragon, chervil, salt
and pepper.

Bring to boiling; reduce heat and simmer gently, covered, 30 minutes.
Remove chicken to heated serving platter; keep warm. Strain drippings
in Dutch oven (discard vegetables); return drippings to Dutch oven.
In small bowl, combine cream, egg yolk and flour; mix well with wire
whisk.

Stir into drippings in Dutch oven; bring just to boiling, stirring.
Add more wine, if sauce seems too thick. Meanwhile, saute mushrooms
in hot margarine 5 minutes, until tender. Spoon sauce over chicken.
Garnish with tarragon and mushrooms. Serves 8.

