Title: Chicken and Pasta with Jalapeno And Tomato Dressing
Categories: Poultry, Pasta
Yield: 4 servings
2    Jalapenos or other fresh hot
-chili peppers
2    Cloves garlic
1 sm Red onion
1 c  Minced fresh mint
1 c  Minced fresh coriander
2 tb Red-wine vinegar
2 tb Olive oil
Salt and pepper
1/2 lb Fusilli or other dry pasta
2    Cloves garlic
1 tb Minced fresh ginger
2 ts Ground cumin
3 tb Red-wine vinegar
1/4 c  Olive oil
Salt and pepper
8    Chicken thighs (about 2
-pounds total)
JALAPENO and TOMATO DRESSING
4    Tomatoes
Mint and/or coriander sprigs (optional garnish)

PREPARATION:  Mince the garlic and ginger.  In a bowl, combine garlic,
ginger, cumin, the 3 tablespoons vinegar, the 1/4 cup olive oil and
salt and pepper to taste.  Add the chicken, stir to coat, and let
stand at room temperature, stirring once or twice, for about 1 1/2
hours.

For the Jalapeno and Tomato Dressing, peel, seed and chop the
tomatoes and place into a large bowl.  Seed and mince the jalapenos.
Mince the garlic and onion.  Mince the mint and coriander.  Add the
garlic, onion, jalapenos, mint and coriander to the bowl with the
tomatoes. Stir in 2 tablespoons vinegar, 2 tablespoons olive oil and
salt to taste and let stand at room temperature, stirring once or
twice, for at least 45 minutes.

Recipe can be made to this point a few hours ahead.

COOKING and SERVING:  Heat the grill.  If using wood chips, soak a
handful in water for 20 minutes.  Put chips on the fire.  Grill the
chicken, turning occasionally and brushing with the marinade, until
crisp and dark brown on both sides, about 15 minutes total.  Or broil
for about 20 minutes

Cook the pasta in a lerge pot of boiling, salted water until just
tender. Drain and toss immediately with the tomato dressing.

Season pasta to taste with salt and pepper and put onto plates.  Top
each serving with 2 grilled chicken thighs and granish with mint
and/or coriander sprigs.  Serve warm.

Yield: 4 servings

[ The Best of COOKS Magazine; 1987 ]

Posted by Fred Peters.

