Title: Chicken in Sun-Dried Tomato Cream Sauce
Categories: Poultry
Yield: 4 servings
-chicken breast halves
Salt and freshly ground
-black pepper to taste
2 tb Vegetable oil
2 tb Chopped fresh basil (or 2
-tsp dried, crumbled)
8 oz Fettucine
1/2 c  Dry-packed sun-dried
-tomatoes
1 tb Butter
1 md Garlic clove, minced
1 c  Chicken stock or low-salt
-broth, divided
1 c  Heavy cream
1 lb Boneless and skinless
Snip the tomatoes into bite-size pieces.  Melt the butter in a
saucepan over low heat; add the garlic and cook for 30 seconds.  Add
3/4 cup of the stock and the tomatoes.  Bring to a boil.  Reduce the
heat and simmer, uncovered, over medium heat for about 10 minutes or
until the tomatoes are tender.  Add the cream and bring to a boil,
stirring. Simmer over medium heat until the sauce is thick enough to
coat the back of a spoon. (The sauce can be kept, covered, for 1 day
in the refrigerator. Heat again over low heat.)

Sprinkle the chicken with salt and pepper on both sides.  Heat the
oil in a large, heavy skillet over medium-high heat.  Add the chicken
and saute, pressing on the chicken occasionally with a slotted
spatula, for about 4 minutes per side or until the meat feels springy
and is no longer pink inside (cut to check).  Transfer to a board;
cover and keep warm.

Discard the fat from the skillet.  Add the remaining stock and bring
to a boil, stirring up the pan juices.  Boil to reduce slightly, then
add to the sauce.  Stir in the basil.  Taste and adjust the seasoning.

Meanwhile, cook the pasta, uncovered, in a large port of boiling
salted water over high heat, stirring occasionally (about 1 to 2
minutes for fresh or 3 to 5 minutes for dried fettucine), or until
tender but firm to the bite (al dente).  Drain, transfer to bowl and
toss with 3 or 4 tablespoons of the sauce.

Cut each chicken breasts into 2 or 3 diagonal slices.  Reheat gently
in the sauce if needed.  Transfer the pasta to serving plates, top
with the chicken and coat with sauce.

Makes 4 servings.

[Faye Levy's International Chicken Cookbook} [Karol v. Menzie; The
Baltimore Sun; Oct 11, 1992]

Posted by Fred Peters.

