Title: Chocolate Triple Layer Cake with Fluffy Chocolate Frostin
Categories: Cake/cookie, Chocolate, Low cal/fat
Yield: 12 servings
-softened
1 1/2 c  Granulated sugar
1 lg Egg
4    Egg whites
1/4 c  Room-temperature coffee
2 1/4 ts Vanilla extract
3/4 c  Plain nonfat yogurt
2 tb Plain nonfat yogurt
1 oz Unsweetened chocolate
2 c  Cake flour
6 tb Unsweetened cocoa powder
1 3/4 ts Baking powder
1/2 ts Baking soda
1/4 ts Salt
1/4 c  Vegetable oil
2 1/2 tb Unsalted butter, slightly
MMMMM-----------------FLUFFY CHOCOLATE FROSTING----------------------
3/4 ts Vanilla extract
1/4 ts Instant coffee powder
1 ts Hot water
1/4 c  Powdered sugar
3 tb Unsweetened cocoa powder
3 lg Egg whites
1/2 oz Unsweetened chocolate
2 1/2 tb Light corn syrup
3/4 c  Granulated sugar
pn Salt
Preheat oven to 350'F. Grease (or spray with non-stick cooking spray)
three 8" or 8 1/2" round cake pans.

In a small, heavy saucepan over lowest heat, melt chocolate, stirring
constantly until smooth; be careful not to scorch. Set aside. Sift
together flour, cocoa powder, baking powder, baking soda and salt
onto a sheet of wax paper. In a large mixer bowl, with mixer set on
medium speed, beat oil, butter and sugar until very well blended and
fluffy. Beat in chocolate. One at a time, beat in egg, then whites,
coffee and vanilla until smoothly incorporated. Gently stir half of
the dry ingredients, then yogurt into the mixture just until mixed.
Stir in remaining dry ingredients just until well blended and smooth.
Divide batter among pans, spreading in edges.

Bake in the middle of the oven for 23-28 minutes, or until tops are
almost firm when tapped and a toothpick inserted in the center comes
out moist but clean. Transfer pans to racks and let stand until
completely cooled. Layers may be wrapped airtight and frozen for
later use. Let return to room temperature before using. Or frost cake
and serve immediately, if desired. Makes 10-12 servings.

Nutritional information (with fluffy chocolate frosting): Each serving
contains 342 calories, 10 grams of fat, 2 grams of saturated fat, 25
milligrams of cholesterol, 202 milligrams of sodium. Percentage of
calories from fat: 26.

FLUFFY CHOCOLATE FROSTING: Place egg whites in a large mixer bowl.
Set the bowl in a large bowl of very hot tap water and let stand for
10 minutes, stirring occasionally. In a small heavy saucepan set over
low heat, melt chocolate, stirring constantly, until smooth; be very
careful not to scorch. Set aside to cool slightly.

Combine the corn syrup, 1/4 cup water and the sugar in a 2-quarter
saucepan, stirring until well blended. Bring to a simmer over
medium-heat heat. Cover and boil for 2 minutes to allow steam to wash
any sugar from pan sides. Uncover and continue simmering, without
stirring, until mixture bubbles loudly and reaches 244-245'F on a
candy thermometer (about 1 1/2 minutes). (To test without a candy
thermometer, drop a teaspoon of syrup into ice water; when cooked to
the proper temperature the syrup will form a firm ball that holds its
shape when squeezed.) Immedately remove pan from heat and set aside.

With mixer set on medium speed, beat egg whites until very frothy and
opaque. Raise speed to high and beat until whites just begin to stand
in soft peaks; be careful not to overbeat. Meanwhile, return syrup to
burner and reheat just to boiling. Beating whites on high speed,
immediately begin pouring boiling syrup in a stream down the side of
the bowl (avoid beaters or syrup will stick to them or be thrown onto
bowl side), pouring rapidly enough that all the syrup is incorporated
in about 15 seconds. Add salt and continue beating on high speed
until the mixture is stiffened, glossy and cooled to barely warm.
Beat in vanilla and coffee mixture until evenly incorporated. Sift
powdered sugar and cocoa onto a sheet of wax paper. A bit at a time,
whisk into egg-white mixture. Whisk in melted chocolate just until
smoothly incorporated.

Frost cake immediately, or store frosting airtight for up to 48 hours.
Frosting may soften and gradually deflate upon longer standing.

