Title: Chocolate Hazelnut Cake
Categories: Desserts, Cake/cookie
Yield: 10 servings
MMMMM----------------------------CAKE---------------------------------
1/2 c  Unsalted butter, room temp
8    Eggs, separated, room temp
1 c  Skinned toasted hazelnuts,
Ground semifine
2 tb Graham cracker crumbs
1 c  Gran sugar
1/4 c  Water
1 tb Instant coffee powder
6 oz Semisweet chocolate, broken
Into pieces
1 ts Almond extract
MMMMM--------------------------FROSTING-------------------------------
3    Egg yolks
1 c  Sifted powdered sugar
1/4 c  Ground skinned toasted
Hazelnuts
6 oz Semisweet chocolate, broken
Into small pieces
1/4 c  Water
1 tb Instant coffee powder
1 c  Unsalted butter, room temp
Preheat oven to 350 degrees.  Butter and flour two 9" cake pans.  To
make the cake, simmer the sugar, water and coffee powder in a small
saucepan over medium-high heat for 3 to 4 minutes, stirring
constantly. Remove from the heat and stir in the chocolate and almond
extract. Stir until the chocolate is melted and mixture is smooth.
Set aside to cool. Beat the butter in a mixer bowl until light and
fluffy. Add the egg yolks, one at a time, beating well after each
addition. Stir in the cooled chocolate mixture.  Then stir in the
hazelnuts and graham cracker crumbs. Beat the egg whites in a
separate bowl with clean beaters until stiff but not dry. Fold a
quarter of the egg whites into the chocolate mixture, and then gently
fold in the remaining. Pour the batter into the prepared pans,
dividing evenly.  Bake until the cake separates from the edge of the
pan and springs back when lightly touched in the center, 25 to 30
minutes. Cool in the pans 5 minutes; then invert onto wire racks to
cool completely. To make the frosting, heat the chocolate, water, and
coffee powder in a small saucepan over low heat until smooth. Set
aside to cool. Cream the butter in a mixer bowl until light and
fluffy. Beat in the egg yolks, one at a time. Beat in the cooled
chocolate mixture; then beat in the powdered sugar. Refrigerate the
frosting until thick enough to spread. Place one cake layer on a
serving plate and frost the top. Place the second cake layer on the
first and spread the top and side of the cake with the frosting,
smoothing the frosting as you spread it. Press the ground hazelnuts
all around the side of the cake.  Pipe any remaining frosting through
a pastry tube decoratively on the top of the cake.  From The Silver
Palate Good Times Cookbook by Julee Russo & Sheila Lukins.
Submitted By TERRI WOLTMON   On   04-23-95

