Title: Croissant Pt. 2
Categories: French, Pastry, Breakfast
Yield: 1 servings
No Ingredients Found
For turn # 2, lightly flour the top of the dough, and your rolling
surface, turn the dough so the edge of the top flap is to your right,
like the open edge of a book.  roll the dough into a rectangle, 14 x
6. fold again in 3. you now have 7 layers of dough, separated by 6
layers of butter. By the end of the fourth turn there will be 55
layers of dough.

let dough rest, covered air tight in the refrigerator, for  1 1/2 to 2
hours before turns 3 and 4. complete turns 3 and 4 as described
above. if the butter gets too hard to roll, beat on the dough with
your rolling pin after taking it out of the fridge, to soften butter
so that it will roll evenly with the dough. Now, wrap airtight and
chill for 2 hours before forming. FORMING the Triangles. Unwrap the
chilled dough, let it rest for 10 minutes.  Roll the dough into a
rctangle 20 x 5 inches. Cut in half ( 2 10" rectangles) and chill one
half. Roll 1/2 the dough into a 5 x 15 rectangle.  cut into 3,
crosswise, and chill 2 of the 3 pieces. roll the remaining piece of
dough into a 5 1/2 inch square and cut into two triangles.  Hold one
of these triangles by the large end, and roll it out toward the point
to make it about 7 inches long. Then stretch the wide end of the
triangle gently between your fingers enlarging the end about an inch.
Start rolling the croissant by rolling the long end on top of itself,
rolling toward the point. Bend the 2 ends inward to form a crescent
shape.  Place on lightly buttered baking sheet with the point resting
inward and against the bottom of the sheet. Form rest of croissants
in the same way. * * * formed croissants may be wrapped airtight and
frozen for a week at this point.**** Final rise: 1 hour at 75
degrees. covered. They should rise til almost double and feel very
light and springy when touched. Beat 1 egg with 1 tsp of water.
paint the croissants with this glaze. Bake at 475 degrees for 10 to
15 minutes.  Cool on a rack. Either eat them the same day, or freeze.
To thaw and serve, set on baking sheet in 400 degree oven for 5
minutes. Taken from Julia Child's Mastering the Art of French
Cooking, Vol 2.

Submitted By SHERREE JOHANSSON   On   05-09-95

