Title: Croissants
Categories: Pastry, French, Breakfast
Yield: 1 servings
2/3 c  Milk, warmed to tepid
2 tb Salad oil
1 ea Stick chilled, unsalted
-butter.  additional flour
-as needed
1 1/4 ts Dry active yeast
3 tb Warm water
1 ts Sugar
1 3/4 c  All purpose flour
1 ts Sugar
1 1/2 ts Salt
mix yeast, sugar and warm water.  let liquefy completely while
measuring out rest of ingredients. Measure flour into mixing bowl.
dissolve additional sugar and salt in tepid milk. when yeast has
liquefied, pour it, along with milk mixture and oil into the flour.
blend into a dough by cutting and pressing with a rubber spatula,
gathering in all flour. turn out onto kneading surface. let rest,
covered, for 2 to 3 minutes. (wash and dry the bowl, you'll need it
later). Start kneading by lifting the near end and flip it over onto
the other side, with the spatula. repeat this movement from side to
side and end to end 8 or 10 times, until dough feels smooth and
starts to draw back into shape when pushed out. this is all the
kneading it should have. FIRST RISE (3 hours) you have about 2 cups
of dough that will rise to 3.5 times its original volume...7 cups.
put dough in the bowl, cover w/ plastic wrap and a bath towel, and
place in a place with 70 or 72 degree temperature. in 3 or 4 hours
dough should measure 7 cups and be light & springy when touched.
deflate by loosening dough from edges of bowl with rubber spatula.
turn onto lightly floured surface. SECOND RISE.  with palms of hands,
pat and push dough out into rectangle about 8 x 12 ".  fold in 3,
return to bowl. cover.  let rise to dobule original volume, about 1
1/2 hours. turn the raised dough onto a lightly flourd plate.  Cover
airtight and refrigerate for 20 minutes. ROLLING IN BUTTER... butter
must be worked to a smooth but still cold paste that can be evenly
spread on the dough and rolled with it. beat the butter with a
rolling pin to soften it.  The smear it out with the heel of your
hand or a scraper until it is of very easy spreading consistency, but
still cold. It must not become soft and oily.  refrigerate if
necessary. Place the chilled dough on a lightly floured board or
marble. with palms push & pat it into rectangle about 14 x 8 ".
spread butter as evenly as possible over upper 2/3s of the dough,
leaving a 1/4" unbuttered border all around. Dough now needs to be
folded into thirds, like a business letter, folding the unbuttered
(bottom) third over the center, then buttered top 1/3 over the
center, making 3 even layers of dough, separated by butter. this is
called TURN 1. (cont. next msg...this is LONG.

Submitted By SHERREE JOHANSSON   On   05-09-95

