Title: Curried Whole Brown Chickpeas
Categories: Indian, Vegetables, Curries
Yield: 6 servings
; chili
1 ts Turmeric
1 1/2 ts Paprika
1 ts Ground coriander
1/2 ts Cayenne pepper
1/2 ts Asafetida powder
1 ea Large firm tomoto, diced
1 ts Salt
1 ts Amchoor powder OR
3 ts Fresh lemon or lime juice
6 x  Lemon or lime twists for
;garnishing
1 1/4 c  Whole kala chana beans or
; dried chickpeas
5 1/2 c  Water
1 ea Bay Leaf
5 tb Ghee
2 x  Inch piece cinnamon stick
6 ea Black peppercorns
1/2 ts Cardamom seeds
8 ea Whole cloves
1 tb Cumin seeds
1 ts Minced ginger root
1 ts Minced seeded hot green
1. Sort through the beans of remove any dead kernels or foreign
matter. Then rinse and drain. Place the beans in a bowl, add 5 1/2
cups of hot water and soak for a least 8 hours of overnight at room
temperature.

2. Place the chickpeas and their soaking liquid in a heavy 3-4 quart
saucepan. Add bay leaf and a dab of ghee or oil-butter mixter and
bring to a full boil over high heat. Reduce the heat to moderately
low, cover with a tight-fitting lid andgently boil for 1 1/2-3 hours
or until the beans are butter-soft but not broken down.

3. Drain the chickpeas, saving the liquid. Discard the bay leaf. Take
out 1/3 c of the soft beans and mash into a coarse paste.

4. To make fresh garam masala, pound the cinnamon stick into small
bits in a stone mortar or with a rolling pin or kitchen mallet.
Combine the cinnamon, peppercorns, cardamom seeds, cloves and cumin
seeds in an electric coffee mill or stone mortar and grind to a
powder.

5. Heat 3 tablespoons of ghee or oil-butter mixture in a heavy 2 1/2
quart nonstick sauce over moderately high heat. When it is hot, stir
in the ginger root and green chili and fry until browned. Remove the
pan from the heat and spinkle in the turmeric, paprika, ground
coriander, cayenne and asafetida. Stir well. Place the pan over the
heat and immediately drop in the tomato. Stir-fry for 4-5 minutes or
until the ghee or oil separets from the spices a tomato paste.

6. Stir in the salt, whole chickpeas, mashed chickpeas, 1/2 cup pf the
cooking water and amchoor powder or lemon or lime juice. Reduce the
heat to low, cover and simmer untilthe liquid is reduced to a thick
sauce. Sprinkle the finished dish with the gramam marsala powder.
Stir and and sprinkle on the remaining ghee or oil and chopped herb.
Garnish, if desired with lemon or lime wedges or twists.

Yamuna Devi. "The Art of Indian Vegetarian Cooking".
Submitted By KEN KUBOS   On   04-25-95

