Title: Farmhouse Breakfast Sausage
Categories: Homemade, Sausage
Yield: 2 servings
1 ts Salt
3/4 ts Freshly ground black pepper
1/4 ts Red (cayenne) pepper
2 lb Fresh pork butt, coarsely
-ground
1 1/2 ts Dried leaf thyme
1 ts Crumbled, dried, sage leaves
Beatrice Ojakangas

When farmers did their own butchering, there were lots of scraps left
over and these were made into sausages.  Sausages are basic to many
cuisines, but especially German, Swiss, Dutch, French and
Scandinavian. The taste of the sausages reflected the flavorings
favored by each ethnic group. Today, about the only sausage people
might make at home is made from game, or just for the fun of it.  For
the uninitiated, the first thought would be that sausage should be
made of very lean meat; not true. For juiciness, the meat should be
at least 30% fat.  If you purchase a pork butt roast, the fat
percentage is about right. Grind it yourself, or ask the butcher to
do it for you.  Then have some fun seasoning and flavoring your
sausages.

About 2 ounces salted sausage casings (optional)

In a large bowl, blend pork, thyme, sage, salt, black pepper and red
pepper. Refrigerate overnight for flavors to blend.  Shape into
patties. Cook in a heavy skillet over medium heat until cooked
through, turning once. For link sausages, purchase salted sausage
casings from the meat market.  Soak in cold water to remove salt,
then slip end of casing over faucet in kitchen sink.  Run cold water
through to flush out inside of casings.  This is more easily done if
casings are cut into 20 to 24 inch links.  Put meat mixture into a
suasage-stuffing machine or into a large pastry bag with a 1/2 to 1
inch tip. Slip casings over end of pastry tip and press meat into
casings.  If sausage is hard to press into casings, add water to meat
mixture to soften it. Makes 2 pounds sausage.

Note: Sausage casings are available from the butcher; extra casings
may be frozen. FROM: Valerie Whittle, Feb-21-91 8:50pm Source:
Country Tastes: Best Recipes from America's Kitchens;

