Title: Fresh Green Pea Pie
Categories: Vegetables
Yield: 6 servings
2 tb Fresh Parsley -- chopped
Salt -- to taste
White Pepper, Freshly Ground
To taste
1/4 c  Chicken Stock -- if needed
1 tb Heavy Or Whipping Cream
1    9 Inch Pie Crust Dough (2
Crust Pie)
3 c  Fresh Green Peas (3 Lbs In
The Pod)
1 ts Sugar
8 tb Butter
1. Make the pastry according your favorite recipe and refrigerate
until ready to use.

2. Drop the peas into a deep pot of boiling salted water (it should
cover the peas by 3 or 4 inches). Add the sugar, and allow the peas
to cook, uncovered, until tender, 15 to 25 mins depending upon the
size and freshness of the peas. Taste for doneness; the peas should
retain their bright green color. Drain the peas and pour them back
into the saucepan.

3. Add the butter, parsley, salt, and white pepper, and toss over low
heat, so the peas will absorb most of the butter. The peas should be
moist, with a bit of butter sauce. If the peas are dry, add more
butter or a few Tbs of chicken stock. Allow the peas to cool.

4. Preheat the oven to 425 F.

5. To assemble the pie, remove the dough from the refrigerator and
divide it in half. Roll the first half out on a lightly floured
surface or pastry cloth to 1/8 inch thickness. Lift the dough
carefully and lay it on a 9-inch pie pan. DO NOT stretch the dough
tightly; give it some play so it will not shrink in cooking.

6. Fill the pie shell with the cooked peas, taking care that there is
a bit of the sauce, otherwise the pie will cook dry.

7. Roll out the remaining dough to 1/8-inch thickness and lay it over
the top. Brush the underneath edge of the top crust with water and
press the edges firmly together. Trim off the excess dough with
scissors or very sharp knife. Crimp the rim with a fork. Make a few
slits with a sharp knife in the top crust, or cut a small hole in the
center and insert a funnel or a large metal tip of a pastry decorator
in the hole, to allow the steam to escape.

8. Brush the top crust with the cream. Place it on the bottom rack of
the oven and bake until both top and bottom crusts are golden brown,
40 to 60 mins. (If top crust seems to be browning too much, cover it
loosely with foil.)

9. Allow the pie to settle for about 5 mins before slicing. Serves 6
to 8.

: The Heritage of Southern Cooking - ISBN 0-89480-117-1
Recipe By

Date: 04-27-95 (159) Fido:
From: Dan Klepach
Cooking

