Title: Herb Bread With Sweet Sausage
Categories: Breads, Sausage
Yield: 1 loaf
5 c  UP TO...
5 1/2 c  Unbleached flour
1 lb Sweet Italian sausages,
Removed from casings &
Crumbled
1 md Yellow onion, chopped
4    Cloves garlic, minced
2 tb Finely chopped sun-dried
Tomatoes (packed in oil)
8 oz Smoked mozzarella, thinly
Sliced
1    Egg
2 ts Water
2 ts Dried oregano
2 ts Dried basil
2 ts Dried thyme
2 ts Dried chervil
2 ts Dired rosemary
1 ts Fennel seeds
2 ts Freshly ground black pepper
3 tb Olive oil
2 pk Active dry yeast
2 c  Warm dry white wine (105 to
115 degrees)
2 tb Sugar
1 tb Salt
Combine the oregano, basil, thyme, chervil, rosemary, fennel, pepper,
and oil in a small bowl.  Let stand at least 1 hour.  Stir the yeast
into the warm wine in a large bowl and let stand 5 minutes.  Stir in
the sugar, salt, and herb mixture.  Stir in enough of the flour, 1
cup at a time, to make a soft dough.  Knead the dough on a floured
surface for 10 minutes, adding more flour if necessary.  Place the
dough in a buttered large bowl and turn to coat with butter.  Cover
with plastic wrap and let rise in a warm place until doubled in bulk,
1 to 1 1/2 hours. While the dough is rising, combine the sausages,
onion, and garlic in a skillet and cook over medium heat, breaking up
the sausage with a wooden spoon, until the sausage is browned.  Stir
in the tomatoes. Set aside. Punch the dough down and roll into a 12"
circle on a lightly floured surface. Spread the sausage mixture
evenly over the surface of the dough.  Arrange the mozzarella slices
evenly over the sausage mixture.  Roll the dough up like a jelly roll
and shape it into a spiral in a buttered 10" springform pan. Cover
and let rise in a warm place 1 to 1 1/2 hours.  Preheat oven to 400
degrees. Beat the egg and 2 t water in a small bowl.  Brush the top
of the loaf with the egg wash. Bake in the center of the oven until
the loaf is brown and sounds hollow when the bottom is lightly
thumped, 45 to 50 minutes. Cool slightly and remove from the pan.
Cool to room temperature and cut into wedges to serve. From The
Silver Palate Good Times Cookbook by Julee Russo & Sheila Lukins.
Submitted By TERRI WOLTMON   On   05-05-95

