Title: High-Summer Pudding
Categories: Desserts, Low cal/fat
Yield: 6 servings
1 1/4 lb Fresh peaches, peeled,
-pitted and chopped (4-5
-medium)
2 1/2 c  Fresh blackberries or black
-or red raspberries
1 tb Finely grated lemon zest
1/8 ts Cinnamon
15 sl Thin-sliced homemade-style
-white bread (such as
1/4 c  Cranberry or cran-raspberry
-juice cocktail
2 1/2 tb Blackberry brandy or kirsch
-(cherry brandy)
Or orange juice
1    Envelope plus 1 1/2 tsp
-unflavored gelatin
1 lb Red or black plums, pitted
-and chopped (5-6 medium)
1 c  Sugar
Pepperidge Farm), crusts removed

Line a 2-quart bowl or mold with plastic wrap, carefully smoothing
the wrap onto the bottom and sides so that the plastic hangs 1 inch
over sides.  In a small bowl, mix cranberry juice and brandy, kirsch
or orange juice and sprinkle gelatin over the surface; let stand 5
minutes until softened.

Combine plums, sugar and gelatin mixture in a medium-sized saucepan.
Bring to a simmer over medium heat, stirring for 3-4 minutes until
the gelatin dissolves.  Reduce heat to low and simmer for 7 minutes.
Add peaches and simmer for about 5 minutes longer, until the peaches
are almost tender. Stir in blackberries, lemon zest and cinnamon and
simmer 3-4 minutes longer, until the berries begin to release their
juice.  Refrigerate.

Arrange bread slices in the bottom of the bowl or mold, cutting as
needed and fitting them tightly together.  Arrange more slices all
around the sides of the dish, fitting them together tightly and
smoothly.  Taking care not to dislodge the bread, spoon the fruit
mixture into the center of the dish, tilting the dish to distribute
the fruit evenly.  If the bread extends more than 1/4 inch above the
layer of fruit, trim it with a knife. Cover the fruit with another
layer of bread, patting it down firmly.  Stack several saucers or
small plates on the bread to weight down the pudding. Refrigerate for
at least 8 hours or up to 24 hours.

To serve:  Invert the bowl over a serving plate, tugging the
overhanging plastic wrap to loosen the pudding from the dish. Center
the pudding on the serving plate and peel off the plastic wrap.
Serve immediately, cut into wedges.  Serves 6.

Per serving:  370 calories, 7 g protein, 2 g fat, 85 g carbohydrate,
279 mg sodium, 0 mg cholesterol.
Submitted By ROBERT MILES   On   05-09-95

