Title: Hot Italian Sausage (Better Than Store-Bought)
Categories: Homemade, Sausage
Yield: 2 servings
-(each about 1-1/2 inches
-long), seeds
2 1/2 ts Coarse (kosher) salt
1/2 ts Whole black peppercorns
3    To 6 dried hot red peppers
For those who prefer a hotter, more complicated flavor, this is a
worthy rival to our own favorite, Sweet Italian Sausage (see
preceding recipe).

Makes about 2 pounds

removed, or 1 to 2 teaspoons crushed dried red pepper flakes 1
tablespoon paprika 1/2 teaspoon dried thyme 1 teaspoon fennel seeds
1/2 teaspoon very finely minced garlic 1 1/2 to 1-3/4 pounds lean,
trimmed pork, cut into 1-inch dice and chilled 1/2 pound fresh pork
fat, cut into 1/2-inch dice and chilled

1. Combine the salt, peppercorns, hot peppers, paprika, thyme, and
fennel in a spice mill or a mortar and grind to a coarse texture, not
a powder. Mix in a small bowl with the garlic.

2. Combine the meat, fat, and spices in a large bowl.

3. Put half the mixture in the container of a food processor and
process to a medium-coarse grind (if you are using a meat grinder,
follow the directions on page 4, using the medium disc). The meat and
fat should be distinct from each other, but reduced to pieces of
about the same size; do not overprocess. Scrape into a bowl. Repeat
with the remaining ingredients, then knead the batches together,
cover the bowl, and refrigerate for 12 to 24 hours.

4. Stuff the casings as indicated in the general sausage-making
instructions on pages 4-5, tying off the links at 4 to 5 inches. If
weather is cool, hang the sausages for a few hours, until they are
just dry to the touch. If it's too hot or humid to hang the sausages,
simply refrigerate them, uncovered, for a minimum of 12 hours. Store
in the refrigerator for up to 3 days, or freeze for longer storage.

TO COOK: Prick the sausages with a needle and arrange in a single
layer in a baking pan. Bake in a 425-degree oven for 25 minutes, or
until browned, tuning often. Or place the pricked sausages in a large
skillet and add 1/4 inch of water. Cook over moderate heat, turning
often, until the water has evaporated and the sausages are well
browned.

FROM:    Tandika Star, Jul-22-90 2:31pm Source: Better Than
Store-Bought

