Title: Hot and Sour Soup (Chinese)
Categories: Chinese, Soup/stew
Yield: 1 servings
1/4 c  Bamboo shoots, cut into
-matchstick shreds
5 c  Chicken stock
3 tb Cornstarch mixed with 1/4
-cup water
2    Eggs lightly beaten
1 ts White pepper
1 tb Sesame oil
2 tb Chopped scallions
2 tb Chopped fresh coriander
-leaves
3    Dried black mushrooms
1    Heaping tablespoon small
-tree ear mushrooms
20    Dried lily buds
2    Pads firm bean curd
1/4 lb Lean pork, cut into
-matchstick shreds
2 ts Dark soy sauce
1 tb Light soy sauce
5 tb White vinegar
2 ts Salt, or to taste
1 tb Peanut oil
Here's a classic Chinese version.

Put the mushrooms, tree ears and lily buds into a bowl and cover with
boiling water.  Let stand for 30 minutes.  Meanwhile, slice the bean
curd into strips and set aside.

Combine the pork shreds with the dark soy sauce in a small bowl.

Combine the light soy sauce, vinegar and salt in another bowl. Remove
the black mushrooms from the soaking liquid, cut off the woody stems
and discard, then slice the caps thinly and put into a bowl. Drain
and rinse the tree ears and add them to the mushrooms.  Remove the
lily buds, cut off the woody tips, slice them in two, then pull each
apart by hand into 2 or 3 shreds and add them to the mushrooms.

Heat the oil in a wok or large pot.  Stir-fry the pork just until it
changes color.  Add the tree ear mixture and bamboo shoots; cook,
stirring for 1 minute.  Add the stock and bring to a boil (you may
have this simmering in a separate pot), and stir in the vinegar
mixture.

Adjust the seasonings.

Cook for 1 minute then add the bean curd.  When boiling, give the
cornstarch/water mixture a stir to recombine and stir into the soup.
Cook until the soup thickens and clears slightly.  Turn off the heat
and slowly swirl in the beaten eggs.  Transfer to a soup tureen,
sprinkle with the pepper, drizzle in the sesame oil, garnish with the
scallions and coriander and serve.

San Francisco Chronicle, 12/18/87.

Posted by Stephen Ceideberg; February 10 1992.

