Title: JUMBO CHOCOLATE CHIP COOKIE MUFFINS
Categories: Cake/cookie, Muffins
Yield: 6 servings
3/4 c  Light brown sugar
1    Extra-large egg
1 oz Unsweetened chocolate;
-melted and cooled
2 ts Vanilla extract
1/2 c  Plus 1 tablespoon half-and-
-half blended with
1 ts Lemon juice
3/4 c  Chopped pecans
1 2/3 c  Unsifted all-purpose flour
1/3 c  Plus 2 teaspoons unsifted
-cake flour
1 1/2 ts Baking powder
1/2 ts Baking soda
1/4 ts Salt
1 1/4 c  Miniature semisweet
-chocolate chips
10 tb Unsalted butter; softened
CHOCOLATE, DESSERTS, BREADS

Preheat the oven to 375F.  Butter and flour 6 jumbo muffin cups
measuring a scant 4 inches in diameter by 1 3/4 inches deep.

Sift together the all-purpose flour, cake flour, baking powder,
baking soda and salt.  Toss the chocolate chips with 1 tablespoon of
the sifted mixture.

Cream the butter in the large bowl of an electric mixer on moderately
high speed for 2 to 3 minutes.  Add the sugar and beat for 3 minutes.
Beat in the egg.  Blend in the melted chocolate and vanilla extract.
On low speed, alternately add the sifted mixture in two additions
with the half-and-half in one addition, beginning and ending with the
sifted mixture. Stir in the chocolate chips and pecans.

Divide the batter among the muffin cups.

Bake the muffins for 29 to 30 minutes, or until well risen and a
wooden pick inserted into the center of a muffin emerges clean and
dry. (While the pick may be tinted with chocolate, it should be free
of any unbaked particles of muffin batter.)

Cool the muffins in the pan on a rack for 1 to 2 minutes.  Carefully
remove the muffins to another cooling rack.  Cool completely.  Store
in an airtight container.

VARIATIONS:

Jumbo Butterscotch Chip Muffins--Substitute butterscotch-flavored
chips for the semisweet chocolate chips and chopped walnuts for the
pecans.

Jumbo Milk Chocolate Chip Muffins--Substitute milk chocolate chips
for the semisweet chocolate chips.

Jumbo White Chocolate Chip Muffins--Substitute white chocolate chips
for the semisweet chocolate chips.

Bittersweet Chocolate Chunk Muffins with Walnuts and
Pecans--Substitute 3 3-oz bars bittersweet chocolate, chopped, for
the semisweet chocolate chips; use 1/2 cup chopped walnuts and 1/2
cup chopped pecans.

from Baking for Gift-Giving by Lisa Yockelson typed by Tiffany
Hall-Graham

Yields:  6 Posted by: Tiffany Hall-Graham - Cooking

