Title: Jumbals (Elizabethan/Medieval)
Categories: Cake/cookie, Medieval
Yield: 20 servings
1 1/2 ts Rose water
3/4 c  Blanched almonds -- coarsely
Chopped
1 ts Anise or coriander -- seeds
1/2 c  Sugar
2    Egg whites
1    Egg yolk
1/2 c  Sifted flour
4 tb Butter -- melted and cooled
To make finer Jumbals--To make Jumbals more fine and curious than the
former, and deerer to the taste of the Macaroon, take a pound of
Sugar, beat it fine.  Then take as much fine wheat flowre, and mixe
them together. Then take two whites and one yolk of an Egge, half a
quarter of a pound of blanched Almonds:  then beat them very fine
altogether, with half a dish of sweet butter and a spoonfull of Rose
water, and so work it with a little Cream till it come to a very
stiff paste.  Then roul them forth as you please:  and hereto you
shall also, if you please, adde a few dryed Anniseeds finely rubbed,
and strewed into the paste, and also Coriander seeds.--Gervase
Markham, The English Hous-wife It is thought that the word *jumbal*
is derived from *gemel*, a finger ring popular at the time, which
could be divided into two separate loops. Jumbals were traditionally
shaped as interlacing loops or in fancy knot patterns, but were not
always made of rolled dough as the recipe [above] instructs. If you
wish, squeeze this batter through a pastry tube to create your own
fanciful shapes. But the round cookie with its golden brown edge
tastes just as good.

1.  Whip sugar and egg whites with electric or hand beater about 2
minutes or until mixture is the consistency of heavy cream. 2. Add
egg yolk, flour, butter, and rose water.  Blend thoroughly. 3. Stir
in almonds. 4. Drop batter from a teaspoon onto a well greased,
lightly floured cookie sheet. Leave at least 1 1/2 inches between
jumbals. 5. Sprinkle tops of jumbals with anise or coriander seeds.
6. Bake at 400F about 12 minutes or until jumbals are golden brown
around edges. 7. Remove jumbals from baking sheet immediately and
place them on rack to cool.

from To The Queen's Taste by Lorna J. Sass "Desserts" posted by
Tiffany Hall-Graham

: To The Queen's Taste
Recipe By

Date: 04-23-95 (160) Fido:
From: Marjorie Scofield
Recipes

