Title: Korean Bread
Categories: Korean, Breads
Yield: 1 servings
1 lb Soybean flour, fermented
1 ga Water
1 lb Salt
1 lb Malt flour
2 lb Of red pepper powder
5 lb Wheat flour
Lately I've been getting more into Japanese cooking which is different
enough from Chinese that I had to do some serious larder stocking. It
took visits to three different stores but I finally come up with the
basics. One of the the stores turned out to be++ta da!++a Korean
market so I now have the malt flour you keep referring to.  In fact,
I just put the first loaf utilizing it into the bread machine a few
minutes ago. Depending on how this loaf turns out, I'll post the
recipe I've worked out for oatmeal bread.

This Korean market is a fairly decent sized store for a hole in the
wall and they have just about everything one would need for Korean
cooking, including a fresh meat counter.  Nice find!  I'm used to
buying things with labels I can't read, but a lot of the stock in
this store didn't have *any* labels at all!  This stuff was obviously
locally produced by the Korean community and some was recognizable as
Kim Chee, various bean pastes and the like, but with some of the
stuff, I had absolutely no idea what it was++or even whether it was
animal or vegetable in origin. I'll go back when I have some time and
find out what all those goodies are.

Here's a recipe that was on the bag of malt flour I thought you might
get a kick out of.  This is exactly the way it appeared on the bag.
Put malt flour into lukewarm water and set aside for about 1 hour.

Pour the malt melted water into pot (throw away the button setting).
Put wheat flour into malt water, and make slow boil on low heat, and
then simmer for about 1 hour.  Remove the glue from heat and mix
fermented soy bean flour and then lastly add hot pepper powder and
salt, and mix well. *As for salt, you may add or reduce to your taste.

*For soup use (Chigae), you better add more fermented soy bean flour.

From the label on Haitai Brand Malt Flour.

Posted by Stephen Ceideberg; September 3 1993.

