Title: Lamb Moussaka with Currants
Categories: Main dish, Vegetables, Meats, Casseroles
Yield: 8 servings
pn Nutmeg
2 lg Eggplants, cut lenghtwise
-into 1/4" slices
2 ts Salt
1 lb Russet potatoes (abt 2 med)
-peeled
3 c  Plain yogurt, don't use low
-or nonfat
3 lg Egg yolks
Olive oil
5 tb Olive oil
3 lg Green peppers, seed & chop
1 1/2 lb Ground lamb
2 c  Onion, chopped
2/3 c  Red wine, dry
1 ts Cayenne pepper
2 cn Italian tomatoes (28 oz ea.)
-drained & chopped
1/2 c  Currants
2 tb Tomato paste
Heat 2 Tbsp of oil in a large Dutch oven over med-high heat. Add
peppers and saute until tender and beginning to color, about 8
minutes. Transfer to a bowl. Heat remaining 3 Tbsp oil in same Dutch
oven; add lamb and saute until cooked through, about 6 minutes. Add
onions and saute until tender about 6 minutes. Add wine and cayenne
pepper and cook 2 minutes. Stir in tomatoes, currants, tomato paste,
and nutmeg. Reduce heat to medium, cover and simmer until sauce is
very thick and reduced to 6 cups, stirring occasionally, about 1
hour. Season with salt & pepper.

On a large baking sheet, arrange eggplant slices in layers and
sprinkle each layer with salt. Let stand at room temperature for 30
minutes.

Preheat the broiler. Line a baking sheet with aluminum foil. Pat the
eggplant slices dry with paper towels and arrange in single layer on
the baking sheet. Brush lightly with olive oil on both sides. Broil
until browned about 4 minutes per side. Transfer to plate and set
aside. Repeat with remaining eggplant.

Boil potatoes in salted water 5 minutes. Drain and cool. Cut potatoes
into 1/4" slices.

Preheat oven to 400 F.  Coat 13x9x2" glass baking dish with oil.
Arrange potatoes in bottom of dish. Arrange 1/2 of the eggplant over
potatoes. Pour 1/2 of the sauce over. Arrange peppers over sauce,
arrange remaining eggplant over peppers. Pour remaining sauce over.

Bake moussaka until bubbling around edges, about 45 minutes. Spoon off
excess fat. Using back of a spoon, press down on moussaka to compact
the layers. Whisk yogurt and egg yolks in a small bowl to blend. pour
over moussaka, covering completely. Bake until yogurt topping is
softly set, about 15 minutes. Let stand about 20 minutes until
serving.

This can also be made with ground beef if you can't get lamb.

From: Bon Appetit, May 1995, 'The Mediterranean, A Delicious Voyage of
Discovery' Typed by: Bob 8-{)
Submitted By ROBERT WHITE   On   05-15-95

