Title: Le Mourtayrol (Chicken, Beef and Bacon Soup w/ Saffron)
Categories: French, Poultry, Soup/stew
Yield: 10 servings
4    Carrots
4    Leeks
2    Small turnips
3    Onions
3 1/3 lb Beef silverside
1    Fat boiling lowl
1 1/2 lb Gammon
Salt
Black pepper; freshly ground
MMMMM-------------------------MOURTAYROL------------------------------
2 tb Olive oil
1/2 ts Saffron
1    Loaf French bread
Put the silverside, chicken and gammon into a large pot. Cover
generously with water. Add a little salt, but not too much as the
gammon is salty, and plenty of pepper. Bring slowly to the boil. Skim
off the scum and add the whole vegetables. Reduce the heat, partly
cover the pot and gently simmer, with just the occasional bubble
bursting on the surface, for 4 hours. After 2 1/2 hours remove 1 pint
of stock from the pot, add the saffron to it and leave it to infuse
for 20 minutes. Meanwhile, cut the bread into slices, toast them
lightly and arrange them in a stoneware pot or in a heavy casserole.
Pour on the stock and saffron, cover the pot and cook gently for 1
hour either on top of the stove, using a heat diffuser, or in a
moderately low oven. Stir occasionally so that the bread dissolves
into a creamy yellow paste. If it becomes too dry, add a little more
stock from the pot. Finally stir in the oil. Remove the meats and the
vegetables from the soup to serve later as the main course. Strain
the soup and ladle it into individual soup bowls. Add a large
spoonful of the mourtayrol to each bowl and serve.

The thick potees and garbures of the southwest of France are well
known. Less familiar are ouillade, a bean soup, and the mourtayrol of
Languedoc with its unusual saffron-flavoured bread sauce which
accompanies the clear soup and gives the dish its name. The meat and
vegetables of the dish are eaten afterwards as the main course.

Source: Jane Grigson (ed.): The World Atlas of Food. A Gourmet's
Guide to the Great Regional Dishes of the World. Mitchell Beazley
Publishers 1974. This edition: Spring Books, London 1988. ISBN 0 600
55929 7. Typed by Heiko Ebeling.
Submitted By HEIKO EBELING   On   05-10-95

