Title: Lungenstrudelsuppe - Cooking Lesson
Categories: Aust/german, Soup/stew, Information
Yield: 10 servings
2 tb Butter
2    Eggs, lightly beaten
3 tb Snipped fresh parsley
1/2    To 1 teaspoon caraway seeds
1 ts Dried marjoram leaves
1/2 ts Salt
1/4 ts Freshly ground pepper
1 1/3 c  All-purpose flour
1    Egg white
1 ts Vegetable oil
1 ts Distilled white vinegar
1/3    To 1/2 cup warm water
**1 pound ground veal
1 sm Onion, minced
Elegant Viennese Dinner Menu

Lift the lid of a tureen in Vienna and uncover this classic soup. It's
special because the beef broth is enriched with meat and the
dumplings are made with strudel dough.

LUNGENSTRUDELSUPPE (Lung-Dumpling Soup)

*Rich Beef Broth (see recipe, page 44)

1. Mix flour, egg white, oil, vinegar and as much of the warm water
needed to make a soft dough. Knead on unfloured surface until smooth
and blisters appear under surface of dough (photo 1), about 15
minutes. Invert warm large bowl over dough; let stand 30 minutes.

2. Meanwhile, saute veal and onion in butter, breaking up veal with
spatula, until veal is no longer pink and onion is soft, about 8
minutes; drain. Transfer to medium-size bowl; cool slightly; crumble
veal very finely. Stir in eggs, parsley, caraway seeds, marjoram,
salt and pepper.

3. Cover large table with linen towels; flour lightly. Roll dough on
towels into a rectangle as thin as possible. Placing hands palms down
under dough, gently stretch dough in all directions starting from
center (photo 2) until dough is thin enough to read through. (Process
works best with 2 people stretching dough from opposite sides.) Allow
dough to hang over sides of table if necessary. Trim into a 3 1/2 x 2
1/2-foot rectangle. Working quickly, spread veal filling thinly over
dough (photo 3) to cover all but a 3-inch border along 1 long edge.
Starting at unfilled edge, roll up dough, lifting towels (photo 4),
to form a flat roll about 2 inches wide. Cut roll crosswise into 1
1/2-inch pieces (photo 5). Let stand covered with damp towel until
ready to poach, up to 4 hours.

4. Heat broth in large stockpot over medium heat to gently boiling.
Transfer dumplings 1 at a time with slotted spoon to broth. Poach
until al dente, 12 to 15 minutes. Carefully remove dumplings to warm
bowl; keep warm. Strain broth into tureen. Transfer dumplings to
tureen.

TIPS: *If soup is served with Tafelspitz, poach dumplings in soup
after beef has been cooked and broth degreased. If making soup only,
make Rich Beef Broth, adding 1 pound beef cubes; reserve cubes for
other use.

**In Vienna this soup is made with cooked lung, which is not
available in the United States.

Source: Cuisine Magazine, April 1980

