Title: Oven-Baked Beef Stew
Categories: Soup/stew
Yield: 10 servings
-thin
1/4 c  Butter
1/4 c  All-purpose flour
4 c  Chicken broth
2 lg Garlic cloves, sliced thin
2 ts Tomato paste
1 1/2 ts Salt, or to taste
1/2 ts Pepper, or to taste
4 lb Sirloin, cut in 1x2" cubes
2 c  Pinot noir or other hearty
-red wine
1/2 lb Thickly sliced bacon, cut in
-1/2" pieces
2 tb Olive oil
2 lg Onion, chopped
2    Carrots, scraped and sliced
Pour the wine over the beef in a glass or ceramic bowl (metal will
give the wine an "off" taste). Cover and refrigerate for 3 hours to
marinate.

Reserving the marinade, drain the beef. Dry on paper towels. Simmer
the bacon for 10 minutes in enough water to cover. Drain and pat dry.
(This rids the bacon of smokiness and some fat.) In a dutch oven,
saute the bacon in olive oil over medium heat until crisp. Drain on
paper towels. Pour off all but 2 tablespoons of the drippings.

Working in small batches so the meat browns well, brown the beef
cubes in the bacon drippings. With a slotted spoon, remove each batch
to a bowl.

Saute the onions and carrots in the drippings until wilted and
beginning to brown, about 7 minutes. Remove with a slotted spoon to
the bowl of meat.

Heat 3 cups of broth in a saucepan. Pour out any drippings that
remain in the Dutch oven. melt the butter over medium heat in the
Dutch oven, then stir in the flour. Scrape the bottom of the pan with
a wooden spatula to keep the mixture moving. When the paste is a dark
golden brown, stir in the broth. Simmer a minute or two, then stir in
the tomato paste, salt, pepper and garlic. Add the sauteed vegetables
and meat. Stir in the reserved wine marinade.

Quickly bring to a boil. Cover and bake in a preheated 325'F. oven
about 2 hours. If the sauce gets too thick, thin it with the extra
cup of broth.

TO SERVE AFTER FREEZING: Thaw according to recommendations. Reheat in
a covered casserole at 325'F. for about 20 minutes, or until bubbly.
You might add freshly cooked vegetables (mushrooms, baby carrots,
steamed potatoes). Serves 10.

Per 1-cup serving: 454 calories, 46 grams protein, 9.5 grams
carbohydrates, 1.4 grams fiber, 21 grams fat (8.5 grams saturated),
811 milligrams sodium.

