Title: Pasta Primavera with Roasted Red Peppers
Categories: Pasta
Yield: 6 servings
1 c  Thawed frozen peas
1/2 lb Spinach pasta
1/2 c  Chopped fresh parsley, pref.
-Italian flat-leaf
1/2 c  Fresh grated Parmesan cheese
Salt
Freshly ground pepper
Radish roses for garnish
3    Red peppers
1 lb Asparagus
3 tb Olive oil
2    Garlic cloves, minced or put
-through a press
1/2 ts Coarse salt
1    Bunch basil
1 lb Fresh peas, shelled
-OR
(From "Mediterranean Light" by Martha Rose Shulman, Bantam).

Roast 2 of the red peppers, either under a broiler or above a burner
flame, turning until all sides are charred. Remove from the heat and
place in a paper bag or damp towel. Allow to cool.

Meanwhile, cut off the tips of the asparagus, about 2" from the top.
Trim off the tough base of the asparagus and cut the remaining stalks
into pieces about 1/2" long. Keep the tops separate from the stalks.
cut the remaining red pepper into thin lengthwise strips and cut
these strips in half or into thirds.

When the roasted peppers are cool enough to handle, remove the skins
and pat dry. Remove the stems, seeds and membranes and cut into thin
strips. Place in a bowl and toss with 1 tablespoon of the olive oil,
1 of the garlic cloves, the coarse salt, and 8 large leaves basil,
cut into slivers. Toss together, cover, and refrigerate for at least
1 hour.

Mince the remaining basil. Steam the peas, asparagus tips, and
asparagus stalks separately, just until crisp-tender, about 5 minutes
for the asparagus, 5-10 minutes for the peas. Refresh under cold
water.

Bring a large pot of water to a boil, add salt, and cook the pasta al
dente. Drain and toss with the remaining olive oli, which you have
mixed with the remaining garlic clove. Refrigerate until shortly
before ready to serve or leave at room temperature if serving soon.

Shortly before serving, toss the pasta with the steamed peas,
asparagus stalks, sliced raw pepper, minced basil, parsley, Parmesan
and salt and pepper to taste. Serve on individual plates and top each
portion with a spoonful of roasted red peppers. Place spears of
asparagus and a few radishes on the side and serve.

Nutritional analysis per serving: 189 calories; 8.6 grams total fat;
(2.2 grams saturated fat); 7.7 grams protein; 19.1 grams
carbohydrates; 5.3 milligrams cholesterol; 157.6 milligrams sodium.

