Title: Peking Chicken
Categories: Chinese, Poultry
Yield: 4 servings
2 pk 6-inch flour tortillas
2 bn Scallions, quartered
-lengthwise and cut Into
-2-inch slivers
1 c  Hoisin sauce or Chinese
-plum sauce
4 ts Minced Cilantro or parsley
7    Sheets Bounty Select-a-Size
-white paper towel
4 tb Honey
2 1/2 tb Soy sauce
2 ts Lemon juice
2 sl Fresh ginger, pared and
-finely minced
2 lg Garlic cloves, finely minced
1/4 ts Paprika
1 tb Sesame seeds
4    Skinless, boneless chicken
-breasts
Well, it had to come to this.  Taking recipes from paper towel ads.
Sigh... See what new toys will do to you?  And frankly, if you
overlook the fact that this "Peking" chicken recipe completely
ignores the spirit of Peking Duck which is cooked primarily for the
SKIN, it doesn't sound half bad.

For speed as well as convenience, there's nothing like a microwave
oven. And, remember that any paper product can burn if used
improperly in a microwave or conventional oven.  In case of fire,
turn microwave off and leave door closed.

1.  In 12-inch round or oval microwave-safe baking dish combine
honey, soy sauce, lemon juice, ginger, garlic, paprika and sesame
seeds. Stir well.

2.  Coat chicken breasts with marinade, reserving extra sauce; arrange
chicken in ring fashion, with ends touching.  Cover and refrigerate
for 1 to 2 hours.

3.  Cover with 4 sections of paper towel, tucking ends underneath
dish.

4.  Cook on HIGH for 6 to 7 minutes, just until chicken loses its
pinkness in the thickest part.

5.  To heat tortillas, use 3 sections of paper towels.  Place
tortillas in center and fold over sides.  Heat one stack on HIGH for
1 to 2 minutes, just until warm to the touch.  Heat remaining stack
as needed.

6.  To serve, slice chicken and arrange on a platter.  Pass small
dishes of sliced scallions, hoisin sauce, cilantro and warm tortillas.

7.  To eat, spread sauce on tortilla; place chicken, scallions and
cilantro inside.  Roll up and eat with your fingers.

Makes 4 servings.

From a Bounty Paper Towel ad, Readers Digest, 10/92.

Posted by Stephen Ceideberg; October 20 1992.

