Title: Perfect Preserves
Categories: Can/preserv, Information
Yield: 1 servings
-the points to
Remember.....
For perfect jams, jellies,
-and marmalades, these are
Choose ripe fruit.  Preserves will lack color and flavor if under
ripe, and may ferment during storage if over ripe.  Fresh fruit has
more pectin and the older the fruit the less pectin is contained and
the final product may not set properly.  Simmer fruit slowly in
covered pan to extract maximum pectin and soften fruit before adding
sugar, particularly fruit with thick skins eg black curranst or peel
in marmalade making. Once sugar is added, skins or peel with NOT
soften. Stir until all sugar has dissolved to prevent preserves
sticking to pan and burning. (rub pan with butter before use, to help
prevent this and also to reduce scum) Dissolving sugar thoroughly,
prevents preserves from crystallizing. Boil preserves rapidly in open
pan after sugar has been dissolved so that the preserves set in the
shortest time possible. This means the pan must be sufficiently large
enough to allow preserve to boil quickly, without boiling over. Use a
heavy enamel (not chipped) or stainless steel pan rather than
aluminum, copper, or iron which may discolor the preserves and even
prove dangerous. Test early for setting to prevent preserve being
overboiled. Over cooking spoils the flavor, and can produce a stiff
preserve or can sometimes destroy the setting quality of the fruit so
that preserves become more liquid and will never set. Remove pan from
heat while testing. Fill warm sterile jars to within 1/4 inch of top,
cover, seal and store in cool, dry place. THREE TESTS FOR SETTING Put
a little preserve on a plate, allow to cool, then push the preserve
with a finger - if it wrinkles, it is set. If using sugar
thermometer, setting point for most preserves is 220F. Coat spoon,
cool, and if set, preserve should hang in a firm flake. Origin:
Marguerite Patten's Recipe Cards Shared by: Sharon Stevens.

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   05-06-95

