Title: Polish Sausage - Kielbasa (Better Than Store-Bought)
Categories: Homemade, Sausage
Yield: 2 servings
-1/2-inch dice and chilled
14    To 16 ounces fresh pork fat,
-cut into 1/2-inch dice and
-chilled
1/3 c  Ice water
1 1/4 lb Lean, trimmed pork, cut into
-1-inch dice and chilled
4 ts Coarse (kosher) salt
1 3/4 ts Ground black pepper
3 tb Sweet Hungarina paprika
1 ts Dried marjoram, crumbled
1/2 ts Dried savory, crumbled
2 ts Finely minced garlic
10 oz Trimmed beef shin, cut into
Makes about 2-3/4 pounds

This sausage has many guises: smoked, raw, and precooked are the most
common forms. Well known in Central Europe and parts of the Soviet
Union, it has become associated most often with Poland (several
versions hail from that country) and is therefore referred to in
market nomenclature as "Polish sausage." The ingredients of kielbasa
(as of practically all sausages) are remarkably variable, changing
from town to town and even from house to house, but garlic does
appear to be a constant. Hearty and rustic, this hefty sausage can be
used in all recipes that call for garlic sausage.

1. Mix together in a small bowl the salt, pepper, paprika, marjoram,
savory, and garlic.

2. In the container of a food processor combine the beef, half the
pork fat, half the ice water, and half the mixed seasonings (see step
1) and process to a very fine grind (if you are using a meat grinder,
follow the directions on page 4). Scrape into a mixing bowl.

3. In a bowl combine the remaining seasonings, the pork, remaining
pork fat, and remaining water. Process half of the mixture at a time
to a coarse grind and add to the beef. Mix together very thoroughly,
cover, and chill for 24 hours.

4. Stuff the sausage into casings as indicated in the general
sausage-making directions on pages 4-5, tying links for 10 to 30
inches long, depending upon your preferance. Both sizes (and
everything in between) are considered traditional. Hang the sausages
in a cool, airy place for several hours at least, or until the skin
is smooth, dry, and crackly. If it's too hot or humid to hang the
sausages, refrigerate them, uncovered, for at least 12 hours. To
store, refrigerate for up to 3 days, or freeze for longer keeping.

TO COOK: Place one or more sausages in a large skillet with water to
come halfway up them. Bring to a simmer and cook for about 8 minutes,
then turn and cook for about 8 minutes on the other side. Pour off
the water, prick the sausages, and cook them over moderate heat until
browned on both sides.

FROM:    Tandika Star, Jul-22-90 2:32pm Source: Better Than
Store-Bought

