Title: Portuguese Almond and Potato Cake
Categories: West europe, Cake/cookie
Yield: 10 servings
1/4 c  Unsalted butter, softened
1 tb Brandy
1/2 ts Almond extract
Powdered sugar
Marzipan "potatoes,"
-optional (see recipe)
1 lg Baking potato, about 10
-ounces
1 c  Almonds, with skins
2 ts Baking powder
3 lg Eggs, separated
3/4 c  Sugar
Bake or microwave potato until soft.  Force pulp through a coarse
sieve or potato ricer.  There should be 1 cup lightly packed.  Set
aside to cool.

Preheat oven to 350F.  Butter sides of an 8 1/2-inch spring form pan,
line base with a circle of baking parchment; butter the parchment.
Using a nut mill, grind almonds to powder, stir in baking powder; set
aside.

Beat egg whites until they start to stiffen, sprinkle with half of the
sugar, a little at a time, and continue beating until stiff and
glossy.

Beat butter with remaining sugar, then beat in egg yolks, brandy, and
almond extract.  Using a large rubber spatula, fold in potato, ground
almonds and egg whites.

Spoon into prepared pan; bake for 35 to 40 minutes, until a tester
comes out dry.  Let cool in pan for 10 minutes.

Run a knife blade around edge before releasing sides of pan.  Place
cake, on the base, on a rack and let cool completely.  Cake will sink
slightly in the middle.  Reverse cake onto a plate, peel off paper
and place right side up on a serving plate.  Dust with powdered sugar
before serving.

MARZIPAN "POTATOES":  You'll need 4 ounces marzipan or almond paste
and powdered unsweetened cocoa.

Pinch off pieces of marzipan and roll into elongated balls, each
about the size of a large marble.  Make these slightly irregular,
like tiny new potatoes.  Roll in cocoa to simulate brown potato skin.
Cut several in half to show the white interior.  Arrange a little
group on top of the cake, and place the rest in twos and threes
around the edge of the plate.

Serves 10.

PER SERVING:  235 calories, 5 g protein, 23 g carbohydrate, 14 g fat
(5 g saturated), 76 mg cholesterol, 131 mg sodium, 2 g fiber.

From an article by Jacqueline Mallorca, San Francisco Chronicle,
2/24/93.

Posted by Stephen Ceideberg; March 2 1993.

