Title: Rainbow Jelly Fish
Categories: Chinese, Appetizers
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM---------------------RAINBOW JELLY FISH--------------------------
1/3    Carrot
1 tb Sesame seeds
1 1/4 ts Salt
1 ts Sugar
2 ts Sesame oil
150 g  Dried jelly fish
1    Red pepper
1/4    Yam bean (optional), or
-turnip
2/3    Cucumber
2/3    Celery stalk
The following 12 recipes are from a booklet put out by the Hong Kong
Tourist Association in celebration of the 1986 Hong Kong Food
Festival. These are the winning chefs and their winning recipes.  The
chefs are all ethnic Chinese from all over Asia, but the recipes
really run the gamut, from traditional Chinese food to dishes like
Shark's Fin Soup to things like "Lamb Fillets with Morels" which is
Western in inspiration and presentation.

Some of the recipes should have the caveat "Don't try this at home,
kids", mainly because of the amount of preparation involved.  This
first one, an appetizer plate consisting of 7 mini-courses, falls
into that category. It's presented in one of those round, segmented
lazy-susan type serving things.  Very striking.  Any one of these
dishes would be suitable for a main course in a Chinese meal.

Chef: Ng Wang-chau

Twenty-eight old, Hong Kong-born Mr.  Ng has worked in three of Hong
Kong's leading Sichuanese restaurants since he began his career 14
years ago. Apart from creating this Award-winner, he is also renowned
for his pan-fried spiny lobster.

Establishment:  Ziyang Szechuen Restaurant G/F., 45D Chatham Road
South, Tsimshatsui, Kowloon.

Chinese Cuisine Practical Class Platinum Award - Appetizer [Chinese
characters for dish name deleted. S.C.] Circle Game (12 servings)
Chef.- Ng Wang-chau (Ziyang Szechuen Restaurant)

The literal translation, "Turning Around Life", prompts a host
meaningful connotations for this Sichuanese starter.  Seven
mini-courses, composed of contrasting flavours, represent the varying
moods, as well as the seven stages, of a person's life.  An
alternative translation - "Life is a Merry-go round" - captures the
spirit of the theme, and its presentation, so appropriately on a
turntable. Each of the individual dishes, which could be served
separately or a few at a time, also have their own particular
mythological and dietary connotations.

1.  Soak jelly fish in very hot (but not boiling) water for
approximately 3 minutes until it curls.  Then rinse under cold
running water for approximately 1 hour until it expands.  Drain and
cut into strips.

2.  Shred vegetable ingredients, and blanch slightly in boiling
water. Then rinse under cold running water until they are cold, and
drain.

3.  Stir-fry sesame seeds in a dry wok until they are golden.

4.  Mix jelly fish and vegetables with salt, sugar and sesame oil.

5.  Sprinkle sesame seeds over mixture.

From "Champion Recipes of the 1986 Hong Kong Food Festival".  Hong
Kong Tourist Association, 1986.

Posted by Stephen Ceideberg; October 26 1992.

