Title: Salt-Roasted Chicken with Marinade
Categories: Chinese, Poultry
Yield: 4 servings
-cheesecloth soaked in oil
5 lb To 6 lb coarse (kosher)
-salt or rock salt
1    Roasting chicken, 4 1/2 to
-5 lbs.
1 lg Piece caul fat or
MMMMM--------------------------MARINADE-------------------------------
1 tb Shaoxing wine or dry sherry
1 tb Sugar
1    Whole star anise
1 ts Whole Sichuan peppercorns,
-roasted
1/4 c  Chicken broth
8    Whole stems Chinese parsley
3 sl Fresh ginger root
3    Whole garlic cloves,
-lightly crushed
3    Whole scallions, cut into
-3-inch sections
1 tb Peanut oil
1 tb Bean sauce
2 tb Thin soy sauce
Method: Salt-roasting

[This marinade can also be used on roasted duck. S.C.]

Fill the chicken with the marinade, skewer it shut, and allow it to
dry for 1 1/2 hours.

1.  Wrap the chicken in a large piece of caul fat or cheesecloth
soaked in oil.

2.  Heat the salt in a pot [heavy Dutch oven, big wok or whatever can
take the heat.  S.C.] on top of the stove over a low flame or in the
oven at 350F for at least 1 hour.  Pour off some of the salt, leaving
just enough to cover the bottom of the pot.  Lay the chicken on top
of the salt in the pot and cover it with the remaining salt.  Cover
the pot and bake the chicken for 1 1/2 hours.

3.  Remove the chicken from the salt.

4.  Pull off the salt that remains caked on the chicken.  Be careful,
because the salt is hot.

5.  With a paper towel, wipe away the remaining salt.  (The salt in
the pot can be reused.)

6.  Peel off the caul fat, drain the marinade, and cut the chicken
into bite-size pieces.

Serves 4 to 6 as a main course.

May be served hot or cold; if cold, the chicken may be prepared up to
a day in advance.  (Do not reheat.)

Suggested beverage: Pinot Noir or Burgundy

From "Chinese Technique" by Ken Hom with Harvey Steiman.  Simon and
Schuster, New York.  1981.

This is a good "guest" food.  You can appear to have mastered esoteric
Oriental cooking techniques without ever having actually prepared the
dish before...  Unless you drop the pot on the kitchen floor and set
it on fire with the hot salt, it's a pretty foolproof cooking
technique.

I'd serve this two recipe with hot mustard, a bowl of hoisin sauce,
Chinkiang vinegar, spiced salt and a bowl of chopped green onions for
dipping along with some sweet Chinese pickles and lots of ice-cold
Oriental beer.  Heaven!  (And rice, of course.)

Posted by Stephen Ceideberg; August 12 1992.

