Title: Silent Stalker's Stew
Categories: Poultry
Yield: 20 servings
-1/2-inch lengths
3    Potatoes, diced
2    Carrots, cut into thick
-julienne strips
6 sm White onions, peeled
1 c  Brussels sprouts, trimmed
1 qt Chicken Stock
Kibble (pages 73-80) [See
-below... S.C.]
1    Chicken (3 to 3 1/2
-pounds), cut into 8 pieces
2 c  Water
1    Bay leaf
1/2 ts Dried oregano
1/2 ts Dried thyme
Salt
Freshly ground black pepper
8    Ounces sausage links,
-cooked and cut into
Place chicken pieces in large kettle, add water, and bring to a boil
over high heat.  Reduce heat, add bay leaf, oregano, thyme, and salt
and pepper to taste, and simmer chicken, covered, for 25 minutes. Add
sausage, potatoes, carrots, onions, and Brussels sprouts; continue to
cook at a rapid simmer, covered, for 20 minutes longer. Add some
stock if mixture begins to dry out.

Remove chicken pieces and bone them.  Arrange chicken and rest of
stew over a plate of kibble.  Pour enough stock over dish to make a
rich gravy. Serve at once.  Makes 2 1/2 to 3 quarts chicken stew.

Makes 2 1/2 to 3 quarts chicken stew.

[Heh!  Had you guys going with that kibble reference I'll bet.
"Ceideburg's finally gone over the edge.  A pity..." Picked up a
genuine cookbook for dog food yesterday.  It's called "Bone Appetit!"
Too cute, huh? Since I don't even like to cook for myself very much
the pooch will just have to make do with leftovers, but it is an
interesting book. Lots of doggie lore like the following about
Basenjis, the "Silent Stalker" of the recipe title.]

Basenjis are depicted in ancient Egyptian scrolls looking exactly as
the breed does today.  Eventually Basenjis migrated further south in
Africa, becoming silent stalkers for tribesmen in the Belgian Congo,
where they were discovered by British explorers in the late
nineteenth century. With an expressively wrinkled forehead, a tightly
up curled tail, and no bark at all, the Basenjis was immediately
favored as an export. Fastidiously clean by nature, the Basenjis has
a grooming ritual that is similar to a cat's and involves licking the
entire coat to clean it. The Basenjis' chortle, described as an
appealing yodel, is its most distinguishing characteristic.

MULTI-GRAIN DOG KIBBLE: 2 cups whole wheat flour 1 1/2 cups
all-purpose unbleached flour 1/2 cup soy flour 1 cup cornmeal 1 cup
nonfat dry milk powder 1 cup rolled oats 1/2 cup wheat germ 1/2 cup
brewer's yeast 1 tablespoon salt 1 large egg 5 tablespoons corn oil 3
cups water

Preheat oven to 350F and grease two 13 x 9-inch baking sheets. In a
large mixing bowl, combine whole wheat, all-purpose and soy flours,
cornmeal, milk powder, oats, brewer's yeast, and salt.  In a small
bowl, combine egg and corn oil.  Stir water into dry ingredients,
then add egg mixture, mixing well.  The batter will be thin.

Divide batter between baking sheets, spreading evenly 1/2 inch thick,
as though for pizza.  Bake for 45 minutes.  Cool kibble, then break
into small pieces.  Store in covered container in refrigerator, or
divide into individual servings, place in freezer bags, and freeze.

Makes 20 cups kibble.

From "Bone Appetit!" by Suzan Anson, New Chapter Press, N.Y. ISBN:
0-942257-13-8

Posted by Stephen Ceideberg; November 22 1992.

