Title: Trade Winds Cheesecake
Categories: Cheese/eggs
Yield: 1 servings
Crust (recipe follows)
Orange Sauce (recipe
-follows)
1 lb (about 1 large) firm-ripe
-mango
Fresh mint (optional)
* (or 1/2 teaspoon grated
-orange peel)
2 lg Packages (8 oz. each)
-neufchatel or cream cheese
-at room
Temperature.
3/4 c  Sugar
4 lg Eggs
1 c  Light or regular sour cream
2 tb Orange-flavored liqueur *
1 ts Vanilla
This is heaven!  Probably the best cheesecake I've ever tasted.  I
cheated on the crust++just used a pre-made graham cracker crust from
the market and it worked just fine.  I used Grand Marnier for the
orange liqueur. Thank God this is nice and low-cal!  ;-}

In a large mixing bowl, beat cheese and sugar until creamy.  Add
eggs, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition.  Add sour cream,
liqueur and vanilla; beat until blended.  Pour over crust.  Bake in a
325F oven until center of cake jiggles only slightly when gently
shaken, 45 to 50 minutes. Cool completely on a rack.  (If made ahead,
cover and chill up until the next day.)

Spoon about 1/3 of the lukewarm orange sauce over cheesecake, to
within 1 inch of sides.  Peel mango.  Cut fleshy cheeks off each side
of pit, then cut off remaining fruit.  Cut mango into thin slices 4
to 5 inches long. Arrange over cheesecake, overlapping slightly.
Spoon remaining sauce over fruit and cake to within about 1/4 inch of
side.

Cover; chill until sauce is set, about 30 minutes or up to 8 hours.
Run a knife around inside edges of pan.  Remove pan rim.  Garnish
with mint. With a sharp knife, cut cake into wedges.

Makes about 12 servings.

CRUST:

Mix 1 1/2 cups finely crushed crisp coconut macaroon cookies with 1/4
cup (1/3 pound) melted butter or margarine.  Press mixture over
bottom and about 1 inch up sides of a 9-inch cheesecake pan with
removable rim. Bake in a 325F oven until lightly browned, about 15
minutes.

ORANGE SAUCE: In a 2- to 3-quart pan, mix 3 tablespoons sugar and 4
teaspoons corn starch. Stir in 2/3 cup orange juice and 3 tablespoons
orange-flavored liqueur (or orange juice). Stir over high heat until
boiling.  Cool to lukewarm.

Sunset Magazine, May, 1991.

Posted by Stephen Ceideberg; April 24 1991.

