Title: Vietnamese Dipping Sauce
Categories: Vietnamese, '
Yield: 1 servings
3 tb Fresh lemon juice
1 1/2 ts Rice vinegar or distilled
-white vinegar
3 tb Nuoc mam (Vietnamese fish
-sauce)
1 c  Minced fresh pineapple
3 tb Mam nem (anchovy sauce)
2    Garlic cloves, crushed
1    Fresh red chili pepper,
-seeded
1 tb Sugar
For anchovy lovers, here are a couple of variations for a Vietnamese
dipping sauce made with 'em.  This is traditionally served with Beef
Fondue with Vinegar (Bo Nhung Giam) that is part of the Vietnamese
feast called Bo Bay Mon (Beef in seven ways++seven distinct ways of
preparing beef). It's good with other stuff too but can be a bit
strong to Western tastes. Some restaurants have it but you might have
to ask for it. This is by far the most intricate of sauces in the
Vietnamese culinary repertoire. What makes it so special is the use
of a condiment called mam nem, prepared from ground fresh anchovies
and salt and fermented over a period of time. It can become
dangerously addictive. Traditionally, mam nem is served as a dipping
sauce for barbecued or fried fish. In general it goes well with
grilled foods.  It is an essential sauce fro Beef Fondue with Vinegar.

Use only fresh pineapple and remember to shake the bottle of anchovy
sauce thoroughly before using.  Anchovy cream may be substituted.

Over a bowl, squeeze the pineapple between your hands to extract as
much juice as possible.  Combine the pulp and juice and set aside.
Into a bowl, strain the anchovy sauce through a very fine sieve,
pressing on th solids with a spoon to extract all of the liquid.
Discard the solids.

Pound or crush the garlic, chile and sugar to a fine paste in a bowl.
Stir in the pineapple mixture, strained anchovy sauce, lemon juice,
vinegar an fish sauce.  Stir to blend.

Yield: 1 1/3 cups

VARIATION: If you are unable to find mam nem sauce, here is a
variation of the above recipe, using canned anchovies. Add pineapple,
if desired. 2 garlic cloves, crushed 1 fresh red chili pepper, seeded
2 tablespoons sugar 2 cans (2 ounces each) flat anchovies, drained
1/4 cup nuoc mam (Vietnamese fish sauce) 1/4 cup fresh lemon juice 2
tablespoons pineapple or water

Combine the garlic, chile and sugar in a mortar and pestle and pound
to a fine paste.  Add the anchovies and mash to a very smooth paste.
Stir in the fish sauce, lemon juice and pineapple juice.  Mix well.

Yield: about 1 cup.

From "The Foods of Vietnam" by Nicole Rauthier.  Stewart, Tabori &
Chang. 1989.

Posted by Stephen Ceideburg; January 22 1991.

