Title: Vietnamese Imperial Rolls
Categories: Vietnamese, Appetizers
Yield: 16 servings
Peanut oil for deep-frying
Lettuce leaves
Fresh mint leaves
Cilantro leaves
2 c  Warm water
1/4 c  Sugar
Sixteen 8-inch round dried
-rice paper wrappers
MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
4    Shallots, minced
1 tb Fish sauce
1/2 ts Pepper
1 c  Grated carrot
1 c  Bean sprouts, tailed
3 tb Small dried tree ear
-mushrooms
2 oz Bean thread noodles
1 lb Ground pork butt
4    Garlic cloves, finely minced
MMMMM-----------------------DIPPING SAUCE----------------------------
1    Fresh or dried red chile
-seeded, finely minced
3 tb Water
1 tb Finely grated carrot
1    Garlic clove, squeezed
-through a garlic press
1/2 tb Sugar
4 tb Fresh lime juice
3 tb Fish sauce
Here's scanned recipe number two++another recipe for a perennial
favorite, Cha gio or Vietnamese Spring Rolls.  I haven't tried this
one yet, but it's from Joyce Jue, the SF Chron columnist and her
stuff is usually bang-on.

In 2 separate bowls, soak the tree ears and the bean thread noodles
in warm water until soft and pliable, about 6 minutes.  Rinse tree
ears and drain. Remove and discard any hard centers.  Coarsely chop
and set aside, Drain the noodles and roughly chop into about 2-inch
lengths; set aside.

Mix together the pork, garlic, shallots, fish sauce and pepper.  Add
tree ears, noodles, carrots and bean sprouts; mix together with your
hands.

Nuoc Cham Dipping Sauce:  Combine garlic, sugar, lime juice, fish
sauce, chile and water; let sit at room temperature for at least 10
minutes, When ready to use, strain into a small bowl and add grated
carrot. Makes 1/2 cup.

To form spring rolls:  Combine warm water and sugar in a wide shallow
pan (such as a cake pan).  Immerse 1 wrapper in the sugar water for a
second and immediate immediately place it flat on the counter or on a
wet, wrung-out, kitchen towel.  Let sit until it wrinkles and softens
to a pliable skin, about 1 minute, sometimes longer.

Using your hands, shape 3 tablespoons of filling into a tight compact
log, about 1-inch in diameter and 4 to 5 inches long.  Place the log
along the bottom third of the wrapper.  Roll the bottom edge over the
log, then roll it over the filling once more.  Make sure the wrapper
is taut around the filling.  Fold the outside wrapper edges inward to
enclose the ends. Roll up to seal.  If there is a tear in the
wrapper, bandage it with a soften softened rice paper remnant.

Set rolls seam side down on a lightly oiled baking sheet and cover
with a damp towel.  Continue making the remaining rolls.

To deep fry rolls:  Pour 2 inch inches of oil into a wok or deep-fat
fry fryer.  Heat to 325F.  Add a few rolls at a time.  Do not crowd.
Fry for 10 seconds.  Immediately increase heat to high (375F).
Continue to fry, turning occasionally, until golden brown, about 6 to
8 minutes.

Remove rolls to paper towels to drain.

Serving suggestions:

Cut fried rolls crosswise into 1 1/2-inch pieces .  Dip into sauce and
enjoy as an appetizer.  Or, wrap rolls lettuce leaves with sprigs of
coriander and mint.  Dip into sauce and eat as a light lunch or part
of a multi course meal.

NOTE:  If you're working ahead, place the rolls (unfried) on a tray
with a sheet of plastic wrap be between each layer, and refrigerate
them overnight, wrapped in plastic.  Don't keep them longer than 1
day. Fried, cooled rolls may be sealed in airtight freezer bags and
frozen for up to 2 months.  To reheat, thaw, place on a baking sheet
and bake at 350F for 10 minutes.

Makes 16 rolls.

PER ROLL:  175 calories, 5 g protein, 18 g carbohydrate, 8 g fat (3g
saturated), 1 mg cholesterol, 90 mg sodium, I g fiber.

Joyce Jue, San Francisco Chronicle, 9/2/92.

Posted by Stephen Ceideberg; October 19 1992.

