Title: White Posole
Categories: Soup/stew, Meats, Poultry
Yield: 10 servings
MMMMM----------------------------SOUP---------------------------------
1 lb Fatback (optional)
8 qt Water
2 ea Hds Garlic, halved crosswise    2 1/4 lb Boneless Pork Loin, in
-chunks
1 ea 2 1/4-Lb Fryer Chicken,
-quartered
3 ea 14-oz Cans Hominy, drained
Salt
2 ea Onions, halved
2 1/2 lb Boneless Pork Leg or Butt
2 ea Pork Soup Bones, preferably
-shoulder hocks
2 ea Pig's Feet, cleaned and
-halved (optional)
Garnish may consist of any or all of the following: Shredded lettuce
Red Radishes, sliced or diced Chopped Onions Ground Chile Piquin or
Cayenne Pepper Dried oregano Tortilla Chips Sliced Haas Avocados
Sliced Limes Crumbled fresh White Cheese or Feta To prepare soup,
combine water, garlic, onions, pork leg, bones and feet, fatback,
pork loin and chicken in large stock pot. Bring to boil over high
heat. Reduce heat and cook over medium heat until meat is tender, 1
1/2 hours. If necessary, add more water. Remove garlic and discard.
Remove chicken legs. When cool enough to handle, cut meat off bones
into bite-sized pieces and set aside. Discard bones and skin. Skim
surface of broth to remove scum and excess fat. Add hominy to soup
and simmer 20 minutes. Remove pork meat and cut into cubes. Remove
soup bones, fatback and pig's foot and discard. Return chicken and
pork meat to stock pot and reheat until soup begins to boil. Season
to taste with salt. To serve, ladle posole into soup bowls. Serve
lettuce, radishes, onions, chile, oregano, tortilla chips, avocados,
limes and cheese in bowls on the side. Makes 16 servings. Note: To
make Red Posole, soak 6 chile anchos and 6 chile guajillos in water
20 minutes. Rinse chiles carefully. Seed, stem and devein them. Puree
chiles in blender with 8 garlic cloves, 1 1/2 onions, chopped, 1 tsp
oregano and salt to taste. Heat 1/4 cup vegetable oil in large
saucepan and add blended ingredients. Cook 30 minutes, stirring
frequently. Add to soup base along with meats. Proceed as directed.
makes 10 servings. Source: Las Vegas Review/Journal 05/03/1995

Submitted By RON ALLARD   On   05-03-95

