Title: Zeus's Sunday Chicken Dinner
Categories: Casseroles, Poultry
Yield: 1 pie
1/2 ts Dried basil; crushed
1/2 ts Dried marjoram; crushed
1/2 ts Dried tarragon; crushed
1/2 ts Black pepper
1/2 lb Feta cheese; crumbled
1/4 c  Kasseri cheese; grated
1/4 c  Olive oil
8    Sheets frozen filo dough
1/2 lb Fresh spinach; stems removed
2    Eggs
2    Chicken breasts; boneless
1 tb Ouzo (optional)
1    Celery rib & leaves; chopped
3    Green onions; chopped
1 tb Fresh mint; chopped
Thaw filo dough according to manufacturers instructions. In some
cases, this may be overnight. Preheat oven to 350 F. Brush bottom and
sides of deep 10-inch pie dish with some of olive oil.  Rince spinach
well and place in micro. proof bowl.  Mirco on his 1 to 2 min.,
stirring once, until wilted and cooked thru. (Or, cook spinach i dry
skillet until wilted.) When cool enough to handle, squeeze the
moisture from spinach. Chop spinach into fine pcs. Place in med.
mixing bowl.

Separate 1 egg into 2 small bowls.  Break remaining egg into bowl
with the egg white and beat lightly. Set both bowls aside.

Dice chicken breasts and place in bowl with spinach. Pour in ouzo.
Add celery, green onions, mint, basil, marjoram, tarragon, pepper,
feta and kasseri.  Pour in beaten egg mixture and mix throughly.

Place filo on clean counter and keep covered with plastic wrap or
damp towell.  Brush sheet with olive oil before placing it in pie
dish. Start by placing 1st sheet of filo half of it in the dish and
half extending beyond the edge. Place second sheet on top, this time
extending over edge in the opposite direction. Place 2 more sheets in
a strip at right angles to 1st two, forming a cross.  Repeat process
with remaining 4 sheets.

Spread the chicken mixture evenly into the pan. Fold overhanging
layer of filo up and across chicken, sheet by sheet, brushing with
olive oil after each sheet is in place. Finish smoothing out top with
a final brushing of olive oil.  Beat egg yolk lightly, brush top with
beaten yolk.
Pierce top in several places with fork to allow steam to escape.

Bake 50 min., until crust is crisp and golden.  Let cool on rack
10 min. before cutting.

Serve hot or at room temp.
Submitted By BILL SPALDING   On   04-26-95

