Title: Zucchini-Spice Squares
Categories: Cake/cookie, Healthy, Vegetables
Yield: 25 squares
2 tb Soy flour or flour made from
-dried garbanzo sprouts*
1 ts Baking powder
1 1/2 ts Cinnamon
1/4 ts Ginger
1/4 ts Nutmeg
1/2 c  Chopped nuts
1    Egg
4 tb Unsalted (sweet) butter
1/4 c  Honey
1 1/2 ts Vanilla
1 c  Grated zucchini
1 c  Whole wheat pastry flour,
-minus 2 tablespoons
2 tb Wheat germ
....Sprouting the garbanzo beans causes an explosion of nutrients and
the development of vitamin B12, which is very rare in vegetables.  The
flour...makes these low-calorie confections in a high-energy food. The
combination of grains and beans greatly enhances the biological value
of the protein.

Preheat oven to 350F.

In food processor, blender, or mixing bowl, blend egg, butter, honey,
and vanilla until smooth and creamy.  Add the zucchini and mix to
combine. In a bowl, combine flour, wheat germ, soy or garbanzo bean
flour, baking powder, cinnamon, ginger, and nutmeg.  Mix to blend
ingredients. Stir in the nuts.

Spread the batter in a 9-inch-square baking dish, lined with parchment
paper or greased with a ew drops of liquid lecithin and oil.

Bake for 30 minutes.  Cut into 1 1/2-inch squares.

Approximately 65 calories each.

*SPROUTED GARBANZO BEAN FLOUR:  Soak 1/2 cup garbanzo beans in about
2 cups of water overnight.  Next morning, pour off the water.  (Save
it and use it in soup--it contains valuable vitamins and minerals.)
Rinse the beans and spread them out in a colander.  Dampen a dish
towel or two layers of paper towels, and place over the beans.  Slip
the whole thing into a plastic bag to retain moisture, but leave it
open at one end to ensure a source of oxygen.

Remove the covering and rinse the beans several times a day.  In two
or three days, you will have sprouted garbanzos.

To make the flour, spread the sprouted garbanzos out on a baking
sheet and then dry them in a gas oven by the heat of the pilot light
or in an electric oven heated to 250F, then turned off.  Don't put
the beans in the oven until you turn it off.  Leave them for about 6
hours. If they are not thoroughly dried, remove them from the oven
and raise the temperature again to 250F, turn off the oven, and
repeat.

When the sprouted beans are thoroughly dried, grind them in a seed
mill, blender or food processor.

from Smart Cookies by Jane Kinderlehrer "In Praise of Vegetables"
posted by Tiffany Hall-Graham
Submitted By TIFFANY HALL-GRAHAM   On   04-22-95

