Title: PORK MIGNONNES WITH ORANGE & GREEN PEPPERCO
Categories: Pork
Yield: 4 Servings
1 lg Navel oranges
1    Juice
5 tb Unsalted butter
2 tb Sugar
1 tb Sunflower oil
1 1/2 lb Boneless pork top loin --
Sliced, 1/2" thick
Salt, to taste
Pepper, to taste
1 tb Orange liqueur -- Grand
Marnier prefer
1 ts Green peppercorns -- drained
And rinsed
1 c  Beef stock
Parsley sprigs
Orange
1. Remove zest (orange part only) from navel orange (reserving
orange) and sliver in fine julienne. Blanch zest in boiling water to
cover for 10 minutes, dropping whole juice orange into water during
final minute to warm it (and maximize amount of juice yielded). Drain
zest and juice orange and reserve. Squeeze juice orange to obtain
about 1/3 cup juice. In a small, heavy, enameled or teflon-coated
saucepan over low heat, melt 1 tablespoon of the butter. Stir in
sugar until sugar melts and mixture turns golden. Add orange juice
and zest and cook over low heat until sauce is thick. Reserve sauce.

2. Divide peeled navel orange into sections, and reserve sections at
room temperature. In a large, heavy skillet, heat 2 tablespoons of
the butter plus the oil until hot. Season pork with salt and pepper
and, raising heat to high, saute meat rapidly on both sides until
browned and cooked through (about 2 minutes per side). Add liqueur;
it will bubble and quickly reduce to a glaze. Remove pork from
skillet, place in serving dish, and keep warm. (Tent with aluminum
foil and place in a turned-off oven.)

3. Lower heat, add green peppercorns to skillet and crush them with
the back of a spoon. Add stock. Turn up heat to high and, stirring
constantly, rapidly reduce liquid to 1/3 cup. Add reserved orange
sauce and salt and black pepper to taste; reduce heat to a simmer and
cook 2 more minutes.

4. Cut remaining 2 tablespoons butter in small pieces and, with pan
off heat, swirl into skillet one by one. Pour any juices yielded by
pork into sauce. Place orange sections in sauce. Nap pork with sauce
and orange sections and garnish with fresh parsley sprigs.

: the California Culinary Academy
Recipe By

