Title: PORK & SHRIMP EGG ROLLS OR WONTONS
Categories: Oriental, Appetizers, Fish, Meats, Pasta
Yield: 16 Eggrolls
8    Dried mushrooms
1 oz Bean threads
8 oz Shrimp, deveined & peeled
(fresh or frozen)
8 oz Lean, boneless pork
2 tb Water
2 tb Oyster sauce
1 tb Rice wine
2 ts Cornstarch
1 tb Cooking oil
1 tb Grated gingerroot
2    Cloves garlic, minced
1 md Carrot, finely shredded
1/2 c  Fresh bean sprouts, chopped
2    Green onions, sliced
Cooking oil or shortening
For deep-fat frying
16    Eggroll wrappers
OR
64    Wonton wrappers
Bottled Sweet-and-Sour Sauce
Bottled Chinese mustardsauce
Soak mushrooms for 30 minutes in enough warm water to cover. Rinse
well; squeeze to drain.  Finely chop, discarding stems. Soak been
threads for 15 minutes in enough warm water to cover. Drain well;
squeeze out excess moisture.  Cut into 2-inch lengths.  Thaw shrimp,
if frozen. Finely chop shrimp and pork.  Mix water, oyster sauce,
wine, and cornstarch in a bowl.

Heat 1 Tbsp oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat. (add more
oil as needed during cooking.) Stir-fry gingerroot and garlic in hot
oil for 15 seconds.  Add carrot, sprouts, and onions; stir-fry for 1
to 1 1/2 minutes or till crisp-tender.  Remove from skillet.

Add shrimp to skillet; stir-fry for 1 to 2 minutes or till pink.
Remove. Add pork; stir-fry for 2 to 3 minutes or till meat is no
longer pink. Push meat to sides of skillet. Stir sauce; pour into
center of skillet. Cook and stir till bubbly.  Cook and stir 1 minute
more. Return shrimp and vegetables to skillet. Add bean threads and
mushrooms. Stir to coat with sauce.  Remove and cool.

Heat 1 1/2 to 2 inches cooking oil in a wok or 3 quart saucepan to 365
degrees.  Fill wrappers.

To wrap a Wonton: Place the wonton wrapper with a point toward you.
Spoon 2 teaspoons of filling diagonally on the wrapper, just below
the center. Fold the bottom point over the filling; tuck it under the
filling. Roll the wonton wrapper once to enclose the filling; leave
about 1 inch unrolled at the top of the wrapper. Moisten the
right-hand corner of the wrapper with a little water.  Pick up the
right- and left-hand corners of the wrapper and bring toward you,
below the filling. Overlap the right- and left-hand corners; press
together to seal.

To wrap an Eggroll: Place the egg roll wrapper with a point toward
you. Spoon 1/4 cup of filling diagonally on the wrapper, just below
the center. Fold the bottom point over filling; tuck it under
filling. Fold the right and left corners over the filling to form an
envelope shape. Roll the egg roll toward the remaining corner.
Moisten the top point with water and press firmly to seal. Fry, a few
at a time, in hot oil for 1 to 2 1/2 minutes or till golden, turning
once.  Remove from oil. Drain on paper towels.  Keep warm in a 300
degree oven while frying remaining food. Serve warm with
sweet-and-sour sauce or Chinese mustard.

