Title: POT ROAST WITH VEGETABLES
Categories: Brisket, Beef, Main dish, Vegetables
Yield: 8 Servings
4 lb Flat cut brisket of beef
2    Cloves garlic, minced
1 1/2 ts Pepper
2 lb Onions, halved & sliced
1/2 c  Drained, dried, marinated
-tomatoes, chopped
1 c  Dry red wine
2 tb Balsamic vinegar
2 lb Red potatoes, scrubbed,
-unpeeled, cut 1 1/2" sq.
1 lb Carrots, peeled, cut 1/2"
1/2 lb Celery, cut 1/2" diagonally
2 tb Butter
1/2 ts Dried thyme leaves, crumbled
1. Preheat oven to 350 deg f. Line large shallow pan with foil,
extending over sides by at least four inches.
2. With hands, rub brisket with garlic, 1 tsp salt, and 1/2 tsp
pepper. Spread half the onions in the bottom of the roasting pan.
Sprinkle with dried tomatoes. Mix wine and vinegar together and pour
into pan. Top with beef, fat side up. Cover with remaining onions.
Crimp foil loosely around but not over the beef.
3. Cover pan with more foil, crimping tightly over the edges, (or
use a roasting pan with a lid). Bake for four hours.
4. Meanwhile in a large bowl, combine remaining vegetables, butter,
thyme and remaining salt and pepper. Spread vegetables evenly in a
jelly roll pan. Cover with foil and crimp to seal on edges. After two
hours of roasting beef, add vegetable dish to oven. After an hour,
uncover vegetables and cook for the remaining hour. Stir the
vegetables once or twice during the last hour.
5. When beef is done cooking, scrape onions off the top and carefully
transfer the meat to a cutting board. Cover with foil to keep warm.
6. Make gravy: With slotted spoon, remove 1 cup onions and tomatoes
from pan. Remove 1/2 cup liquid. In a food processor, combine the
remaining juices and vegetables and blend until smooth. Pour into a
sauce pan, add reserved juices and vegetables and black pepper to
taste. Over low heat, keep hot.
7. Cut brisket diagonally into 3/8 inch thick slices. Use a spatula
to transfer the meat to a serving platter. Spoon vegetables beside
roast. Pour gravy into a gravy boat and serve with meat and
vegetables.
8. Makes about 8 servings of meat and vegetables, and
4    cups of gravy.

