Title: POTATOES ROLLED WITH SHRIMP FILLING
Categories: New text im, Cooking rig
Shrimp Filling--
Yield: 1 Servings  :
5 TB butter
1    onion -- minced
1    pimiento or red bell pepper
minced
:
3/4 lb fresh shrimp -- peeled,
cleaned, and
:
2 TB parsley -- minced
3 TB flour
1 c  milk
Salt and pepper to taste
Potato Roll--
:
:
5    baking potat  peeled and
quartered
:
2 TB butter -- room temperature
1 c  milk
4 TB Parmesan cheese -- freshly
grated
:
1/2 ts parsley -- minced
1 ts baking powder
2 TB flour
3    eggs -- separated
Salt and pepper to taste
Cilantro sprigs for garnish
:
:

To make the filling, melt 2 tablespoons of the butter and saut=E9 the
onion and pimiento until they are soft. Add the shrimp and continue
to cook just until the shrimp turns pink. Stir in the minced parsley
and set aside.

In a saucepan melt the remaining 3 tablespoons butter and stir in the
flour. Using a wire whisk, gradually stir in the milk. Cook over low
heat until the sauce is thickened. Stir in the shrimp mixture and
correct the seasoning. Cool to room temperature before filling the
potato roll.

To prepare the potato roll, boil the potatoes until they are very
tender. Drain and mash them. Mix in the butter, 3/4 cup of the milk,
the cheese, parsley, baking powder, and flour. Lightly beat the egg
yolks with the remaining 1/4 cup milk and add to the potato mixture.
Add salt and pepper to taste. Beat the egg whites until they hold
soft peaks and fold them into the potatoes. (This is a dish typical
of Brazil which can be made ahead and baked just before serving.)

Line a jelly-roll pan with foil and butter the foil well. Starting in
the center, spread the potato mixture on the foil with a rubber
spatula. It may not completely fill the pan. Bake at 400 degrees for
about 25 minutes or until the top is lightly browned. Remove from the
oven and carefully invert onto a damp tea towel. Cool for 5 minutes
and then carefully peel off the= foil.

To assemble the rocambole, carefully spread the cooked potato with
shrimp filling, and, using the towel as a helper, roll up, jelly-roll
style. Serve warm, cut in 1 1/2-inch thick slices garnished with
cilantro sprigs.

Yield: 6 to 8 servings

Copyright, 1996, TV FOOD NETWORK, G.P., All Rights Reserved

~ - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - From: Bill Spalding
<billspa@icanect.Ne

