Title: POTATO PAN ROLLS
Categories: Breads, Potatoes
Yield: 24 Servings
1    (4-5 ounce) all-purpose
-potato
1    Envelope active dry yeast
1 tb Plus 1/4 teaspoon granulated
-sugar
2 tb Warm water
1 c  Milk
1 1/4 ts Salt
4 tb Butter
3 1/4    To 3-1/2 cups unbleached or
-all-purpose flour
1    Egg, slightly beaten
4 tb Butter, melted, for brushing
-on the rolls
Info:  posted by Perry Lowell, GOURMET/INTERCOOK, March '93 from
"Sunday Suppers, Informal American Home Cooking", 1988 by Melanie
Barnard & Brooke Dojny

The potato in these rolls helps produce a smooth-textured grain and
somehow adds a certain subtle tang to their taste. In other words,
they taste so good that they're worth the effort --- especially if
you are also yearning for the smell of bread baking in your kitchen.

These rolls freeze very well after baking.  Wrap them in foil to
reheat. Quick-rise yeast may be substituted. Rising times will be
about half as long.

Makes 24 rolls.

1.  Peel the potato and cook it in a small saucepan of boiling water
until tender.  Drain, discard the water, and mash with a fork. You
should have about 1/2 cup of mashed potato.

2.  Dissolve the yeast with 1/4 teaspoon of the sugar in the 2
Tablespoons warm water and set aside until the yeast is bubbly, about
5 minutes.

3.  Heat the milk with the remaining Tablespoon of sugar and the salt.
Remove from the heat, add the butter, and stir until melted. Stir in
the mashed potatoes.

4.  Place 3 cups of flour in a large mixing bowl and add the milk
mixture, the yeast mixture, and the egg. Stir to combine well. Knead
on a well-floured board or with a dough hook in a heavy-duty mixer
until the dough is smooth and elastic, about 8 minutes.  Add enough
additional flour to make a smooth, workable dough.

5.  Transfer the dough to a greased bowl, cover, and let rise in a
warm place until doubled in bulk, about
1-1/2    hours.

6.  Punch the dough down.  Lightly butter two 8- or 9-inch round cake
pans. Divide the dough into 24 equal pieces and shape each piece into
a round ball. Arrange the balls of dough in the cake pans side by
side, leaving about 1/4-inch between each roll.  Brush the rolls with
some of the melted butter.  Let rise for 30 minutes at room
temperature before baking, or cover loosely with plastic wrap and let
rise in the refrigerator for 8 hours or overnight.

7.  Preheat the oven to 375 degrees.  Brush the rolls again with the
remaining melted butter and bake in the preheated oven until a
beautiful golden brown, about 25 to 30 minutes. Serve hot.

