Title: POULET A LA MONTRACHET (CHICKEN & MUSHROOMS I
Categories: French, Chicken, Ceideburg 2
Yield: 6 Servings
1    Free-range chicken (2 kg [4
-lb])
225 g  (8 oz) small spring carrots
225 g  (8 oz) small onions
-(pickling size)
225 g  (8 oz) button mushrooms
25 g  (I oz) butter
1    Long branch tarragon or 1
-sprig each thyme,
-rosemary, parsley
1    Bay leaf
Salt, black pepper
150 ml (1/4 pint) white burgundy
2 lg Egg yolks
300 ml (1/2 pint) double cream
I made this one last night and was quite pleased with it, though the
sauce turned out a bit thin.  I probably didn't cook the sauce long
enough but I was afraid of curdling it, something I've been quite
good at lately. BTW, I couldn't find any white burgundy so I used
white Zinfandel instead.

Wipe the chicken inside and out with a cloth wrung out in boiling
water. Cut into 10 serving pieces:  2 drumsticks, 2 thighs, 2 wings
and 2 breasts halved. Scrape the carrots and peel the onions. Wipe
the mushrooms with a damp cloth and trim the stalks.  Melt the butter
in a heavy iron cocotte [heavy frying pan or Dutch oven. S.C.] over
low heat and when foaming add the pieces of chicken, the carrots and
onions, and the herbs tied together. Season with salt and pepper, add
the wine, cover and cook for 30 minutes, moving the ingredients
around occasionally to prevent colouring. When the carrots and onions
are tender remove them with a slotted spoon, cover and keep hot over
a pan of boiling water.

Slice the mushrooms finely, add to the pan, sprinkle with salt, cover
and simmer for a further 20 minutes. Beat the egg yolks into the
cream and set aside.

Remove the chicken from the pan to a heated serving dish, place the
vegetables around it in small groups, cover with foil and keep hot.
Using the back of a fork, work the meat residue from the bottom of
the pan into the cooking juices.  Bring to boiling point, remove the
herbs, and draw the pan from the heat.  Add a tablespoon of pan
juices to the cream, stir well and return this mixture to the pan,
stirring constantly until thick. Pour immediately over the chicken
and serve without delay.

The excellent sauce of this dish is best appreciated when accompanied
by plain noodles or boiled rice.

Makes 6 servings.

From "The French Farmhouse Kitchen", Eileen Reece, Exeter Books,
1984. ISBN 0-671-06542-4

Posted by Stephen Ceideberg; May 12 1993.

