Title: POZOLE JALISCO 1H16
Categories: Main dish, Ethnic
Yield: 1 Servings
5 lb Pork meat(combination, tende
1 x  Butt and neck bones.
2 tb Salt
1 x  Accompaniments:
1 x  Salsa picante
1 x  Onion-minced
1 x  Lettuce, shredded
1 x  Lime wedges
1 x  Radish, sliced
1 x  Oregano
1 x  Tortilla, toasted
1 x  Red pozole:
1 x  Garlic cloves, minced
4 ea Red chiles, dried
1 x  Green pozole(pozole verde)
1 ea Chicken, small, cut in half
1 lb Tomatillos, fresh
1/3 c  Oil
4 ea Chiles, green
1 ea Lg Onion
2 ea Epazote sprigs
2 ea Hoja santa sprigs
1 1/2 c  Pumpkin seeds, hulled, toast
2 days ahead:Put 1 pound whole white corn kernels (hominy) to soak in
a pot, covered with water, overnight. NEXT DAY: Change water and
bring to a boil.Place one heaping teaspoon unslaked lime in one cup
cold water and add it to the corn through a strainer.Boil the corn 12
minutes. Cover, and let stand 1/2 hour. Wash the corn in water
several times, removing the thin sheaths on the kernels as you
go.Rinse again.Keep refrigerated. On day of preparation: Bring to a
boil 5 pounds pork meat(combination pork tenderloin, shoulder, butt
and neck bones). Lower to a simmer for one hour. At same time, place
the hominy in fresh, cold water about 14 cups-and bring to a brisk
boil for about one hour. The kernels should open. After the hour,
remove the pork from its pot and cut into serving size pieces.Add the
pieces of pork to the hominy(corn).Add 2 Tablespoons salt and alow to
cook, uncovered about 4 hours on a slow simmer Reserve liquid pork
broth from meat and maintain in another pot, simmering. This should
be added to the hominy as needed. ACCOMPANIMENTS: Salsa picante,
finely chopped onion, shredded lettuce or cabbage, lime wedges sliced
radish, oregano, toasted tortilla To change to RED POZOLE: Add to the
pozole, at the same time you add the meat, the following: 6 crushed
garlic cloves; 4 dried red chiles(of the large variety), such as
ancho or guajillo-although any type will do. The chiles should first
be slightly charred and then soaked in 1 cup hot water.Then remove
stems and seeds and puree in blender with the water. Continue cooking
as before.
For POZOLE VERDE(green pozole) After Pozole has been cooking for 2
hours add:1 small chicken, cut in half; 1 pound fresh tomatillos,
husked, washed blended, and briefly fried in 1/3 cup veg shortening;4
small green chiles;one large chopped onion;2 sprigs each epazote and
hoja santa;1 1/2 cups hulled untoasted pumpkinseeds(which you should
toast yourself till they begin to pop; Notes: Basic instructions are
for white pozole. Add ingredients shown if you wish to make red or
green pozole. MELANIE MIGUEL (MJNT73C)

