Title: PREPARATION & GRILLING GUIDE FOR VEGETABLES
Categories: Instruction, Vegetable
Yield: 1 Servings
1/3 c  Olive oil
1/4 c  Lemon juice
2    Cloves garlic
-finely chopped
1 ts Chicken or beef bouillon
-granules
Marinade and basting:  Mix the above in a container that will allow
you to marinate the vegetables as well as brush them while they
grill. Makes about
1/2    cup.

Note: Dense vegetables need to be precooked (completly or blanched)
before grilling.

*ARTICHOKES:  Whole baby artichokes; large artichokes, halved or
quartered. Trim and steam until tender; marinate briefly before
grilling. Grilling time: 10 to
15    minutes or until brown.

*CARROTS: Rub unpeeled medium-sized carrot with marinade before
grilling. Grilling time: 20 to 25 minutes, turning frequently, until
brown and soft.

*CORN ON THE COB:  Pull husk down and discard silk. Brush corn with
marinade. Pull husk up and secure with string. Soak in water for 10
to 15 minutes before grilling. Grilling time: 15 to 20 minutes,
turning frequently, until husks are charred.

*EGGPLANT AND JAPANESE EGGPLANT:  Cut large eggplant into 1/2-inch
rounds or lengthwise slices; cut small Japanese eggplants in half or
leave whole. Marinate briefly before grilling. Grilling time; 5 to 7
minutes per side, or until soft and brown.

*FENNEL: Cut in half or into thick, lengthwise slices; marinate
briefly before grilling. Grilling time: 10 to 20 minutes per side, or
until brown and tender.

*LEEKS:  Cut large leeks in half, leaving enough of the root to hold
the halves together. Marinate briefly before grilling. Grilling time:
10 to 15 minutes, turning frequently.

*MUSHROOMS:  Large mushrooms can be cooked on the grill; skewer small
mushrooms. Brush with marinade during grilling. Grilling time: 5 to 10
minutes, turning frequently.

*ONIONS: Quarter or slice large onions; skewer small onions. Marinate
briefly before grilling. Grilling time: 10 to 30 minutes, or until
brown, glossy and soft.

*PEPPERS: Skewer chunks, slice into rings or briefly before grilling.
Brush whole peppers with marinade during grilling. Grilling time: 10
to 20 minutes, or until brown and tender.

*POTATOES: Slice large potatoes into 1/2-inch slices or quarter them;
small potatoes can be grilled whole. Marinate slices or quarters
briefly before grilling. Rub skins of whole potatoes with marinade
and prick skins. Grilling time: About 15 minutes per side or until
soft; small whole potatoes will take about 30 minutes, turning
frequently.

*SCALLIONS: Leave whole; marinate briefly before grilling. Grilling
time: 10 minutes or until brown and tender.

*SUMMER SQUASH: Small zucchini can be grilled whole; cut larger ones
in half; skewer slices or chunks. Treat yellow squash the same, but
allow more grilling time, since it has a denser texture. Marinate
slices and chunks briefly. Rub skins of whole squash with marinade
before grilling. Grilling time: 10 to 15 minutes for slices or
chunks; 20 to 30 minutes for whole.

*TOMATOES: Skewer small tomatoes; cut larger ones into slices or
quarters. Plum tomatoes can be cut in half or grilled whole. Brush
with marinade during grilling. Grilling time: 3 to 5 minutes, or
until hot.

*SWEET POTATOES OR YAMS:  Cut in half or into 1/2-inch lengthwise
slices; marinate briefly before grilling. Grilling time: 10 to 20
minutes per side, or until brown and soft.

: WD's Light Meals in Minutes 1992 page 35
Recipe By

