Title: PROFITEROLES
Categories: Desserts
Yield: 4 Servings
2 tb Butter
1/2 lb Semisweet chocolate
1 c  Water
2 tb Corn syrup
2/3 c  Heavy cream
PATE a CHOUX
3/4 c  Water
1/4 lb Butter
1/2 ts Salt
1 c  Flour
5    Eggs
SWEETENED WHIPPED CREAM
1 1/2 c  Heavy cream
2 tb Sugar
3/4 ts Vanilla extract
CHOCOLATE SAUCE

PREPARATION: For the Chocolate Sauce, chop the butter and chocolate
into small pieces. Put the butter, chocoalte, water, and corn syrup
in the top of a double boiler set over hot (not boiling) water. Stir
occasionally until the chocolate is just melted. Remove from hot
water and whisk in the cream.

Chocolate Sauce can be made several days ahead.

Line 2 baking pans with parchment paper or butter them and dust with
flour.

For the Pate a Choux, put the water, butter, and salt in a heavy
saucepan over medium heat and bring just to a boil. Remove from heat.
Add the flour and beat to combine. Return to medium-low heat,
stirring constantly and vigerously, until the paste forms a ball and
leaves a thin film on the bottom of the pan, about 5 minutes. Remove
from heat and let cool a moment. Add 4 of the eggs, one at a time,
beating thoroughly after each addition.

Heat oven to 425F.  Beat the remaining egg with 1 tablespoon of water
to make an egg wash.  Put the Pate a Choux in a pastry bag fitted
with a 1/2-inch plain tip. Pipe 1-inch mounds onto the prepared pans,
spacing them about 1 inch apart.  (Or use 2 spoons to form the
mounds.) Lightly brush the tops with the egg wash and bake in
preheated oven for 10 minutes. Lower oven temperature to 350 F and
bake until lightly browned and all beads of moisture on the tops have
evaporated, about 8 minutes longer. Cool on a rack in a dry place.

Recipe can be made to this point a few hours ahead.

Whip the heavy cream with the sugar and vanilla until just stiff. The
cream can be whipped an hour ahead.

SERVING;  Bring the chocolate sauce back to room temperature if
refrigerated.  Put the whipped cream into a pastry bag fitted with a
1/2 inch fluted tip. Cut the tops off the pastry puffs using a
serrated or sharp paring knife.  Pipe or spoon in the whipped cream.
Replace the tops. Pour some chocolate sauce onto each plate. Put the
cream puffs on top of the sauce and serve at once.

Yield: 4 servings

[ The Best of COOKS Magazine; 1987 ]

