Title: PUCHERO
Categories: Soups/stews, Mexican, Meats
Yield: 6 Servings
1/2 c  Chickpeas
2 sm Zucchini
1/4 lb Boneless lamb
2 sm Sweet potatoes
1/4 lb Boneless beef
1 c  Corn cut from the cob
3 lb Chicken
2    White potatoes, boiled in
-jackets
1/2 lb Ham
3    Barely ripe bananas
1 lg Onion
1/2 ts Coriander seeds, crushed
3    Cloves garlic
1/4 ts Pepper
1    Veal knuckle, split
3 tb Oil (or butter)
1 ts Salt
2    Pears
2 qt Chicken broth
3    Peaches
1/2 sm Cabbage
2    Limes
2 sm Turnips
1 lg Carrot
"Puchero is to Mexican cooking what Pot-au-Feu is to French. The
difference lies in Puchero's imaginative combination of vegetables
and fruits. Since it is even more delicious the second day, this
recipe will make an ample amount to serve 8 for dinner, with some
left over for lunch the following day."

Place the chick peas in a kettle, cover with broth, and soak
overnight.

Cut the lamb and beef into 2-inch cubes, cut the chicken into serving
pieces, and dice the ham.  Peel and slice the onion and garlic.
Combine the drained chick peas, all the meats, the veal knuckle,
onion, garlic, and salt in a large soup kettle.  Cover with 2 quarts
of cold water and bring to a full boil.  Skim off the froth. Lower
the heat, cover, and simmer for
45    minutes.

Cut the cabbage into eight wedges. Peel and slice the turnips and
carrot. Slice the zucchini. Peel and dice the sweet potatoes. Cut the
corn from the cob.  Add the cabbage, turnips, carrot, zucchini, sweet
potatoes, and corn to the kettle. Cover and simmer about 20 minutes
or until meats and vegetables are tender.

Peel the boiled white potatoes and cut into thick slices. Peel
bananas and cut into 2-inch slices. Saute potatoes, sprinkled with
crushed coriander seeds and pepper in oil. Remove the potato slices
with a slotted spoon. Keep warm.  In the same oil saute the bananas
until golden. Keep warm with the potatoes.

Peel, core, and slice the pears and peaches.  Put in a small pan with
a little water and poach for 10 minutes. Do not overcook. Drain the
fruit.

Adjust the seasonings. Serve each bowl of soup with the juice from
one lime wedge and a Tbsp. of Guacamole.

From: The New York Times Bread and Soup Cookbook Shared By: Pat
Stockett

