Title: PUMPKIN RAVIOLI (HAZEN)
Categories: Pasta, Seasonings, Vegetarian, Eggs
Yield: 6 Servings
MMMMM---------------------------PASTA--------------------------------
6 c  Unbleached flour
6 lg Eggs
MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
1 md Pumpkin or lg. winter squash
-- halved & baked until soft
-- (about 2-1/2 cups cooked)
2 lg Carrots; chopped
-- & cooked until just soft
2    Yellow onions; finely diced
1    Garlic clove; minced
2 ts Coriander
1/2 ts Mace
1/2 ts Allspice
1 pn Cardamom
1/2 lb Unsalted butter
1/3 lb Parmesan cheese
-- freshly grated
2 tb Maple syrup
1 lg Egg; lightly beaten
Salt and pepper; to taste
1 1/2 lb Fresh pasta, in sheets
MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
1 c  Hazelnuts
3 c  Heavy cream
3    Garlic cloves; minced
1 pn Cayenne
1 pn White pepper
1 pn Salt
2 c  Sorrel, stems removed
--(cut into 1/8-inch strips)
PASTA: If you can't find frozen pasta sheets or prefer to make your
own, here's a recipe that's virtually foolproof. Herbs and spices
compatible with the dish can be kneaded into the dough toward the end.

Heap the flour and make a well in it.  Break the eggs into the well
and beat them together with a fork. Stir them into the flour from the
bottom of the well with the fork until the dough in the center is
smooth or shiny. With your hands, gradually incorporate the flour
from the outside of the well toward the center, kneading gently until
the mass of dough comes together.

Knead the dough until it is smooth and resilient.  You may need to
add more flour, or you may not be able to incorporate all of the
flour, depending on the humidity and the size of the eggs. If the
dough is sticky or extremely pliable, knead more flour into it.

Divide the dough into three portions, cover them with plastic wrap or
an overturned bowl, and allow to rest for at least 30 minutes.

FILLING: Puree the cooked pumpkin or squash and carrots in a food
processor until smooth.

Saute the onions, garlic, and spices in butter until the onions are
soft, then add to the pureed vegetables. Add the cheese, maple syrup,
egg, salt, and pepper.  Taste the adjust seasoning, then set the
filling aside.

SAUCE: Preheat oven to 400 F and toast the hazelnuts in a shallow pan
on the middle rack for 10 to 12 minutes or until brown and fragrant.
Remove from the oven. When they are cool enough to handle, wrap the
nuts tightly in a lint-free towel and vigorously rub them against the
towel. Open the towel carefully and pick out the nuts and continue
rubbing until the nuts are almost blond.

Cook the cream, garlic, cayenne, and pepper over high heat, stirring
often and adjusting heat to keep the cream from boiling over. When
the cream is thick enough to coat the back of a spoon, add the salt,
taste, and adjust seasoning.  Remove sauce from heat until you're
ready to use it.

ASSEMBLY: If you're making your own pasta, roll the dough out very
thin on a lightly floured surface, one portion at a time. If you have
a pasta machine, follow the manufacturer's instructions for rolling
out the dough into sheets about 1 millimeter thick.

Lay one pasta sheet out on a flat surface and spray it with water to
prevent drying and to make it more flexible. Place half tablespoons of
filling along the bottom edge of the pasta about 1/2 inch apart. For
larger ravioli, use 1 tablespoon of filling and leave 1 inch between
dollops. Fold the pasta sheet over the filling and cut apart with a
ravioli cutter. Set the finished ravioli aside and cover with a damp
cloth.

Cook the ravioli in salted boiling water al dente. Reheat the sauce,
then drain the ravioli.  Add the shredded sorrel to the sauce and
cook just until it wilts -- about 30 seconds. Add half the hazelnuts,
turn the heat off, and add the cooked ravioli.  Stir gently and serve
immediately. Garnish with the remaining hazelnuts.

* Adapted from 'Glories of the Vegetarian Table' by Janet Hazen *
Published in: The Herb Companion, October/November 1993 * Typed for
you by Karen Mintzias

