Title: PUMPKIN SPICE CAKE IN JARS  (OVEN METHOD)
Categories: Cakes, Fruits, Gifts
Yield: 7 -8 jars
1 c  Seedless raisins
1 c  Walnuts
2 c  All-purpose flour
2 ts Baking soda
1/4 ts Baking powder
1/2 ts Salt
2 ts Ground cloves
2 ts Ground cinnamon
1 ts Ground ginger
4    Eggs
2 c  Granulated sugar
1 c  Salad oil (use fresh oil)
1 cn (16 oz) pumpkin OR   *
2 c  Freshley cooked and mashed
-pumpkin
*  Do not use pumpkin pie filling.

Preheat oven to 325  F.  Grease the inside of 8 - 1 pint
wide-mouth Kerr or Ball canning jars or Ball Quality Crystal (12 oz.)
with Crisco (do not use a spray like Pam or Baker's Secret); set
aside. The 1 pint jars are shorter but bigger around and hold more
than the decorative 12 oz. jars, use either one.  The 1 pint jars
don't come with labels though, so you'll have to make your own.
Coarsely chop the raisins and walnuts; set aside. I used my mini
chopper and did them in batches.
Sift together the flour, baking soda, baking powder, salt, cloves,
cinnamon, and ginger into a large bowl. Add raisins and walnuts; toss
lightly to combine.
In another large bowl, beat eggs at high speed until thick and
yellow (2-3 minutes).  Gradually beat in the sugar until thick and
light. At low speed, beat in the oil and pumpkin; blend well.
Gradually stir in the flour mixture until well blended.
Divide mixture among the 7 or 8 canning jars (should be slightly
less than 1/2 full).  Wipe the sides of the jar in case you slop, or
it'll burn. Place jars on a cookie sheet or they'll tip over.
Bake in a preheated 325  F. oven for about 40 minutes or until
toothpick inserted into center of cakes (deep) comes out clean. When
cakes test done, remove them, one at a time and immediately place the
lids and rings on them.
You must boil the lids, rings, and jars for 10 minutes to
sterilize them before using.  Keep the lids in the hot water until
you use them. Take them out, one by one and put them onto the jars.
If you'd like to make a regular cake out of this without messing
with the jars:
Grease a 13 x 9 x 2-inch baking pan.  Bake in preheated 350 F.
oven for 50 minutes or until cake tests done. If you like spicy cake,
this will be one of your favorites. Ellie

FROM:  Posted on the Prodigy Food and Wine Club forum on January
18, 1992 by Ellie Collin  (CMKD93F) Formatted to MM by Trish McKenna.

