Title: PUMPKIN-SQUASH BISQUE - COUNTRY LIVING HOLIDA
Categories: Holidays, Soups
Yield: 8 Servings
8 sm Sugar pumpkins or small
-Golden Debut squashes
2    13 3/4 or 14 1/2 oz cans
-chicken broth, all surface
-fat removed
1 c  Sliced fresh or frozen
-cauliflower
1 md Onion, chopped
2 c  Milk
1/3 c  Unsifted all-purposeflour
1/2 ts Salt
1/8 ts Ground white pepper
1/4 c  Half-and-half
4 c  Mashed cooked sugar pumpkin
-or winter squash (use any
-dry textured, orange
-fleshed winter squash such
-as butternut, Golden Debut,
-or Hubbard)
1. If using pumpkins for serving bowls, heat oven to 350'F. Rinse
pumpkins; pat dry. Cut a wide circle around the stem of each pumpkin
making a lid. Remove lid and with spoon, scrape out seeds and stringy
portion from pumpkins. Place pumpkins and their lids in large shallow
roasting or baking pan. Cover pan with aluminum foil.

2. Bake pumpkins 30 to 50 minutes or just until flesh is fork-tender.
Test lids for doneness after 30 minutes; if tender, remove and set
aside. (Do not overbake or the pumpkins will collapse.) To microwave,
place 3 or 4 pumpkins with their lids inserted on top in microwave
ovens. Cook 15 to 20 minutes, rotating them every 5 minutes, or until
tender. Repeat until all of the pumpkins have been microwaved.

3. In 4-quart saucepan, heat broth and cauliflower to boiling over
high heat. Reduce heat to low; cover and simmer fresh cauliflower
until tender-about 10 minutes. If using frozen cauliflower, cook
about 5 minutes. With slotted spoon, remove cauliflower to blender or
food processor, leaving broth in saucepan.

4. Add onion to broth remaining in saucepan; cover and heat to
boiling. Cook until tender-about 5 minutes. Meanwhile, in cup,
combine 1/2 C milk, the flour, salt, and pepper until smooth. Stir
flour mixture into onion and broth. Cook mixture, or sauce, stirring
constantly, until it thickens and boils. Remove from heat.

5. In blender, puree cauliflower with 1/2 C sauce and the
half-and-half Pour cauliflower soup into small saucepan and keep warm
over very low heat.

6. In same blender (no need to wash), blend remaining sauce until
smooth; return to saucepan; set aside. Add half the mashed pumpkin
and 3/4 C milk to blender; blend until smooth; pour into saucepan
with sauce. Repeat to puree remaining mashed pumpkin with remaining
milk. Heat pumpkin mixture, or bisque, over low heat just until hot,
stirring constantly. (Do not allow to boil.)

7. To serve, ladle pumpkin bisque into baked pumpkin "bowls" or
serving bowls and place on serving plates. Drizzle cauliflower soup
on top of each serving.

Country Living Holidays/92  Scanned & fixed by Di Pahl & <gg>

