Title: QUEEN ANNE'S SPIRAL
Categories: Desserts
Yield: 6 Servings
3/4 c  Granulated sugar
6 oz Semisweet chocolate pieces,
-broken
2 tb Unsweetened cocoa powder
1 1/4 c  Whipping cream, chilled
5 tb Espresso coffee OR
-double-strength coffee at
-room temp.
3 tb Powdered sugar
1/2 ts Vanilla
1 tb Creme de cacao, Kahlua or
-Tia Maria
Chocolate Glaze (recipe
-follows)
6 lg Eggs, separated, at room
-temperature
Chocolate Glaze
4 tb Unsalted Butter
3 tb Light Corn Syrup
4 oz Semi-Sweet Chocolate broken
2 tb Coffee, Room Temp.
1 tb Rum
Vegetable oil

1. Place oven rack in center of oven; heat to 350~F. Coat sides and
ends of 15-1/2 x 10-1/2 x 1 inch jellly-roll pan with oil; line pan
with oiled parchment or waxed paper, overhanging 1 inch on one end of
the pan. Reserve. 2. Melt chocolate with 2 tablespoons of the
espresso and the creme de cacao. 3. Beat egg yolks in medium mixer
bowl at high speed 1 minute; gradually beat in granulated sugar.
Continue beating until mix- ture is pale yellow and slightly thick;
about 3 minutes. Gradu- ally beat chocolate mixture into egg-yolk
mixture. 4. Beat egg whites in large mixer bowl at high speed until
stiff but not dry peaks form. Fold chocolate mixture thoroughly into
whites. 5. Spread mixture in reserved pan in even layer using the
back of a large wet spoon. Bake 15 minutes. 6. Transfer pan to wire
rack and cover with a slightly dampened lightweight kitchen towel;
cool to room temperature. (Cake can be set aside covered at room
temperature 2 to 3 hours). Remove towel. 7. Overlap, side by side,
two 16-inch sheets of waxed paper on work surface. Sprinkle top of
cake evenly with cocoa.  Loosen sides and ends of cake. Invert cake
onto waxed paper; remove pan and peel parchment liner from cake.
Reserve cake. 8. Whip cream in chilled mixer bowl at high sped until
soft peaks form. Add powdered sugar and vanilla.  Continue beating
cream while drizzling in remaining 3 tablespoons espresso; beat until
stiff peaks form. 9. Spoon whipped cream onto cake; spread evenly,
leaving 1-inch border of cake uncovered along one long side and both
ends. Beginning with the long side covered with cream, carefully roll
up cake jelly-roll fashion (use the waxed paper to help turn the
roll, but do not roll paper into the cake). Work as gently as
possible. (Cake will crack a bit on the sides) <snicker>. Then roll
entire cake snugly in waxed paper; place seam-side down on baking
sheet. Refrigerate until well chilled, about 2 hours. 10. Prepare
Chocolate Glaze. 11. Wile glaze is cooling, fold a 15 x 7-1/2 inch
piece of parchment paper wit a letter-fold to form a triple-thickness
15 x 2-1/2 inch strip. Place wire rack (or two small racks) long
enough to accommodate length of roll, on baking sheet, and place
parchment strip lengthwise on rack. Remove waxed paper from cake;
place cake seam-side down on parchment strip <snicker, snicker>. 12.
Pour Chocolate Glaze very slowly over cake to coat evenly; use a
spatula to spread around bottom curve of cake. (Scrape glaze
drippings from baking sheet with spatula into small bowl; let stand 3
minutes.  Drizzle crosswise over cake at 1/2 inch intervals, building
up smooth ridges, if desired.) 13. Refrigerate cake until glaze sets,
about 45 minutes. Transfer cake to serving platter <many more
snickers>. Cut roll cross- wise into 1 to 1-1/2 inch slices. Serve
immediately.

Chocolate Glaze 1. Measure butter, coffee, rum and corn syrup into
small saucepan. Heat over low heat to boiling; boil slowly, stirring
constantly, 1 minute. Remove from heat. 2. Stir in chocolate and
whisk until smooth. Let stand until glaze cools and thickly coats a
wooden spoon dipped into it, about 12 minutes. Use immediately.

