Title: QUICK-N-DIRTY VEGETABLE SAUCE
Categories: Digest, August
Yield: 1 Servings
x  Garlic
x  Pam
x  Sun-dried tomatoes (opt)
x  Vegetables
x  Fresh basil
x  Canned tomato sauce
x  Tomato paste
x  Herbs
Grate copious amounts of garlic and saute in a squirt of Pam spray
until brown.  Sprinkle in some rosemary and oregano. Add veggies and
some water and saute. Add some fresh basil leaves if you have them,
and saute until they just wilt. Add a sufficient amount of canned
tomato sauce and a little tomato paste to achieve the texture you
want. For a couple of zucchini and 12 oz. of mushrooms, one standard
can (16 oz?) of sauce is enough.

Good veggies for this: mushroom, zucchini, broccoli, spinach,
artichoke heart, green bean, acorn squash. Peppers and onions added
to the saute overwhelm the whole dish for me, making it taste like a
big pepper (rather than a big TOMATO which is what I want it to taste
like).

The Saturday afternoon way to get good veggies in sauce (a saute pan,
a pot, a blender, another pot for skinning tomatoes):

if I have time I start my tomato sauce by simmering 3 oz. of sundried
tomatoes and a head or two of whole garlic cloves (uncut garlic,
cooked before processing, has a much milder taste than garlic that is
cut before cooking).  A handful of dried sweet red pepper flakes
added to this is also good.  Once everthing is cooked/rehydrated, I
puree it, return it to the pot, add sauteed veggies PLUS several
large peeled/seeded/chopped tomatoes. Also rosemary, basil, oregano,
thyme, bay leaves, etc. in random quantities, usually a couple of bay
leaves and a couple of teaspoons of each of the dried herbs, and a
big wad of fresh basil leaves (ADM hydroponic basil, found year-round
in central IL grocery stores). Simmer this until it tastes done. If
it's thin, add a little more water and it's soup, if thick, add a
little tomato paste and it's spaghetti sauce. I've also put lentils
in this and called it minestrone.

From: cgibas@wraightc3.life.uiuc.edu (Cynthia J. Gibas). Fatfree
Digest [Volume 9 Issue 49] Aug. 9, 1994. Formatted by Sue Smith,
S.Smith34, TXFT40A@Prodigy.com using MMCONV

