Title: QUICK TIPS MAR/APR 95
Categories: Info, Kooknet
To Chop Fennel Seeds
Yield: 1 Info

Small hard seeds like fennel do not grind well. Here's how to chop
them without scattering them all over the counter.

Pour just enough water or oil on a small pile of seeds to moisten
them. The seeds can then be chopped with a chef's knife without
flying all over the kitchen.

To Keep Cake Filling From Bleeding Into Frosting

1. Fill a pastry bag with the outer frosting and fit it with a plain,
round tip. Pipe a circle of frosting around the top edge of all the
layers except the one that will form the top of the cake.

2. Spread the filling inside this frosting ring. the frosting ring
will seal the layers of the cake together and prevent the filling
from seeping out.

To Clean a Food Processor Bowl

The easiest way to clean bowls is to soak them, but the hole in the
center of a food processor makes this impossible to do. Here's how.

Remove the bowl cover and blade from the bowl. Set an empty 35mm film
canister upside down over the hole in the food processor bowl. Now
you can fill the bowl with warm, soapy water and allow it to soak.

To Make a Cookbook Holder

1. Cut the hooks off of two wire coat hangers just below their twists.

2. Use pliers to straighten the coat hanger wire. Then bend a hook
into each end of each piece of  wire, making sure that the hooks bend
in opposite directions on each piece of wire and that the bottom hook
is longer than the top hook.

3. Hang the wires by their top hooks over a cabinet door, spacing
them to accommodate the size book or magazine you're using.

To Form Icebox Cookies

1. Use scissors to cut down the length of a cardboard tube, such as
the core of a roll of paper towels.

2. Line the inside of the tube with waxed paper.

3. Pack the cookie dough into the tube.

4. When the tube is full, close it, wrap a rubber band around each
end, and refrigerate it. After the dough is chilled, unwrap it and
slice it for baking. The dough will be perfectly shaped.

To Skin Tomatoes Easily

Cut the tomatoes in half, remove the seeds, and grate the tomatoes on
the side of the grater with the largest holes. You will end up with
grated pulp and no skin.

To Make Your Own Magi-Cake Strips

Moistened magi-Cake Strips prevent cakes from peaking, cracking, and
overbrowning. Here's how to make your own.

1. Fold a sheet of newspaper to make a strip the width of the pan
height.

2. Wet the strip with water.

3. Wrap the strip around the cake pan.

4. Secure the strips with wet kitchen twine. Fill the cake pan with
batter and bake.

To Grease Pans

Purchase a bottle moistener with a sponge tip, fill it with oil, and
use it grease baking pans. No more greasy paper towels or fingers.

Cook's Illustrated March/April 1995

Posted by Michael Prothro KOOK-NET
:þ Mike's Resort BBS, Fayetteville,AR,(501)521-8920þ

