Title: RAAN MASALEDAR - WHOLE LEG OF LAMB IN A SPICY
Categories: Meats, Main dish, Indian, Lamb
Yield: 6 Servings
5 lb Lamb, leg of
MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
2 oz Almonds, blanched
1/2 lb Onions, coarsely chopped
8    Garlic cloves, peeled
4    Cubes ginger, 1", peeled
;chopped coarsely
4    Green chillies, chopped
20 fl Yoghurt, plain
2 tb Cumin seed, ground
4 ts Coriander seed, ground
1/2 ts Cayenne pepper
3 1/2 ts Salt
1/2 ts Garam masala
6 tb Vegetable oil
1/2 ts Whole cloves
16    Cardamom pods
1    Cinnamon stick, 2" long
10    Peppercorns, black
MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
4 tb Sultana raisins
1/2 oz Almonds, blanched, slivered
Make sure that all the fat has been trimmed from the outside of the
leg and that most of the fell (parchment-like white skin) has been
pulled off. Put the leg in a baking dish made, preferably, of pyrex
or stainless steel. Put the 2 oz. almonds, onions, garlic, ginger,
green chillies, and 3 tablespoons of the yoghurt into the container
of a food processor or blender and blend until you have a paste. Put
the remaining yoghurt into a bowl. Beat lightly with a fork or a
whisk until it is smooth and creamy. Add the paste from the
processor, the cumin, coriander, cayenne, salt and garam masala. Mix.
Push some of the spice paste into all the openings in the lamb. Be
quite generous. (I forgot to say, you need to ask the butcher to make
a deep pocket to hold a "stuffing", in this case, some spice paste
mixture, or make a pocket yourself) Spread the paste evenly on the
underside of the leg (the side that originally had less fat.) Now,
using a small, sharp, pointed knife make deep slashes in the meat,
and push in the spice paste with your fingers. Turn the leg over so
its outer side (the side that was once covered with fat) is on the
top. Spread a very thick layer of paste over it. Again, make deep
slashes with the knife and push the spice paste into the slashes.
Pour all the remaining spice paste over and around the meat. Cover
with plastic cling film and refrigerate for 24 hours. Take the baking
dish with the meat out of the refrigerator and let the meat come to
room temperature. Remove the cling film. Heat the oil in a small
frying pan over a medium flame. When hot, put in the cloves,
cardamom, cinnamon and peppercorns. When the cloves swell - this
takes just a few seconds - pour the hot oil and spices over the leg
of lamb. (My note: I found the spices jumped and spat in the oil
quite a lot - make sure your arms and counter are well protected)
Preheat the oven gas mark 6, 400 F. Cover the baking dish tightly
either with its own lid or with a large piece of aluminium foil.
Bake, covered, for 1 hour 30 minutes. Remove the foil and bake
uncovered for 45 minutes. Baste 3-4 times with the sauce during this
period. Scatter, or arrange in a pattern, the sultanas and the 1/2
oz. almonds over the top of the leg and bake for another 5-6 minutes.
Remove the baking dish from the oven and let it sit in a warm place
for 15 minutes. Take the leg out of the pan and set it on a warm
platter. Spoon off all the fat from the top of the sauce. Use a
slotted spoon and fish out all the whole spice in the sauce. Discard
the spices. Pour the sauce around the leg. My Notes: I served the
sauce separately, in a gravy boat. It is delicious!

