Title: RAITA (ANGELA NAYLOR)
Categories: India, Appetizers, Vegetables, Meats
Yield: 1 Servings
2 lg Cucumbers
-peeled, seeded & grated
2 c  Plain yogurt
1/2 ts Garam Masala
Just mix all this together.  It will keep 2 or 3 days in the
refrigerator, but it separates.  Sometimes we use this as a dressing
on beef fajitas. Subj:  PHULKA Date: 95-09-14 18:08:42 EDT From:
Mrarchway

Subj:  Re:still looking for indian brea Date: 95-09-13 22:28:50 EDT
From: GeoBaker

PHULKA PUFFED WHOLE WHEAT BREAD

to make 5 six inch breads

1 cup flour 1/4 to 1/2 cup water

Place the flour in a deep bowl, make a well in the center and pour in
1/4 cup of the water. With your fingers or a spoon blend the water
into the flour. Then knead or beat the mixture together vigouously
until it can be gathered into a compact ball. If the dough crumbles
add up to 1/4 cup more water, 1 tbsp at a time until the particles
adhere. On a lightly floured surface, knead the dough by folding it
end to end, then pressing it down and pushing it forward several
times with the heal of your hand. Repeat for 10 minutes, or until the
dough is smooth and elastic. Again gather it into a ball, place it in
a bowl and drape a dampened kitchen towel over the top. Set aside and
let the dough rest for at least 30 minutes at room temperature. To
shape each phulka, devide the dough into 5 equal portions and form
each one into a ball. On al lightly floured surface, roll each ball
intop a round about 6 inches in diameter. As you proceed, cover the
phulkas with a damp kitchen towel. Heat an ungreased 10 to 12 inch
skillet with a nonstick finish or a well seasoned cast iron skillet
or griddle until it is hot evough for a drop of water flicked into it
to splutter instantly. Place one of the phulkas in the pan and,
moving it about constantly with your fingers or the edge of a metal
spatula, cook kit for a minute or so, until the top begins to darken.
Turn the phulka over and cook for 1 minute longer, or until it is
lightly browned. Then, holding a folded linen kitchen towel in one
hand, press it down gently but firmly on the bread. Lift your hand
away and the phulka should puff almost instantly. Remove the towel
and slide the phulka onto a heated plate. Serve the Phulka warm as a
mealtime bread If requested I have recipe for following Indian
breads: Alu paratha, Chapati, Dosa, Gobi Paratha, Naan, Paratha,
Puri. GeoBakerSubj: CHICKEN MAKHANI Date: 95-09-16 09:30:48 EDT From:
Mrarchway

