Title: REAL FRENCH CHOCOLATE MOUSSE
Categories: Desserts, Chocolate
Yield: 6 Servings
4    Egg yolks
1/4 c  Superfine sugar
2 tb Cognac
6 oz Semi--sweet chocolate, cut
-into small chumnks
3 tb Strong coffee
8 tb Soft unsalted (sweet) butter
-(1 quarter lb stick) cut in
-1/2
Inch pieces
4    Egg whites
1/2 c  Heavy cream, whipped
Real French Chocolate Mousse

French Chocolate Mousse

Brush the inside of a 1 quart charlotte (cylindrical) or ring mold
with a film of veg. oil. Invert the mold on paper towels to drain. In
a heatproof mixing bowl, beat the egg yolks and sugar with a whisk,
rotary or electric beater for 2 or 3 minutes, or until they are pale
yellow and thick enough to form a ribbon when the whisk is lifted
from the bowl. Beat in the cognac. Set the mixing bowl over a pan of
barely simmering (not boiling) water, and continue beating for 3 or 4
minutes, or until the mixture is foamy and hot. Then set the bowl
over a pan of iced water and beat for 3 or 4 minutes longer, or until
the mixture is cool again and as thick and creamy as mayonaise. In a
heavy 4 to 6 cup saucepan, melt the chocolate with the coffee over
hot water, stirring constantly. When all of the chocolate has
dissolved, beat in the butter--one piece at a time--to make a smooth
cream. Then beat the chocolate mixture into the egg yolks and sugar.
In a seperate bowl, with a clean whisk or beater, beat the egg whites
until they are stiff enough to form stiff peaks on the wires of the
whisk. Stir about 1/4 of the egg whites into the chocolate mixture to
lighten it, then very gently fold in the remaining egg whites. Spoon
the mousse into the oiled mold or dessert cups and refrigerate for at
least four hours or until it has set. To unmold and serve, run a long
sharp knife around the sides of the mold and dip the bottom of it in
hot water for a few seconds. Then wipe the outside of the mold dry,
place a chilled serving plate upside down over the mold and, grasping
both sides firmly, quickly turn the plate and mold over.  Rap the
plate on a table and the mousse should slide easily out of the mold.
If the mousse doesn't unmold at once, repeat the whole process. With
a wire whisk, rotary or electric beater, whip the chilled cream in a
large chilled bowl until it is firm enough to hold its shape softly.
Garnish the mousse with the whipped cream.

