Title: RED'S SOUTH TEXAS FAJITAS
Categories: Main
Yield: 6 Servings
4    Jalapeno peppers  --
Pierced
3 tb Chili powder
1 ts Cayenne pepper
1    8 oz bottle herb and garlic
-oil-based salad dressing
1 cn Beer  -- preferably Lone
Star
1 1/2 ts Garlic powder
4 sm Mexican limes  -- juiced
2 ts Cumin powder
1 lg Onion  -- minced
2 tb Cilantro  -- minced
1 tb Worcestershire sauce
1    Bay leaf
3 lb Skirt steak
About twelve to fifteen years ago, fajitas were "discovered." since
then, an awful lot of good meat has been wrecked, and skirt
steak--once a "grinder" item--has risen sharply in price. Because
skirt doesn't come from a "tender quadrant" of the carcass, some care
is needed to turn it into good food. First, it needs to be marinated
to tenderize and flavor it.

Mix all the ingredients together, except the meat, to make a
marinade. Pour over the skirt steak, in a non-reactive container (not
metal), cover, and stir occasiionally for six to eight hours.

Fajitas can be cooked in several ways. If you have the space, smoke
the fajitas for 30 minutes with pure mesquite smoke, and then cook
for 4-7 minutes per side over direct heat--mesquite coals being the
heat of choice. Baste with the marinade throughout the cooking
process. If you need to cook completely over direct heat, then use a
fairly slow fire, about like you should use when grilling chicken,
and cook, covered if possible, for about 10 - 15 minutes per side,
basting with the marinade.

Figure about a half pound of meat and 3 to 4 tortillas per person.
When slicing fajitas, you'll notice that the grain of the skirt steak
all runs the same way. If you'll slice the skirt at a forty-five
degree angle to the grain, and hold your knife on a forty-five degree
angle as well, you'll find that the fajitas are much more tender!
Serve the fajitas with flour tortillas, pico de gallo salsa,
guacamole, and cold beer. You'll notice that I didn't say anything
about chicken fajitas--that's a contradiction in terms.

: Chile Pepper Magazine - Sep/Oct 1990
Recipe By

