Title: RED & YELLOW PEPPER TART
Categories: Appetizers, Vegetarian
Yield: 6 Servings
1    Recipe Savory Tart Dough
3 md Bell pepper
2 lg -Bell peppers; mixed
-colors, but preferably
-Red and Yellow
4 tb Olive oil
1 sm Red onion; quartered,
-sliced thinly crosswise
2    Garlic cloves; minced
Salt
1/4 c  Water or white wine
Pepper
1 c  Basil leaves, loosely packed
- and roughly chopped
2 tb Parmesan or Romano cheese
- (grated)
2    Whole eggs; plus
2    Egg yolks
1 1/2 c  Light cream
1 c  Provolone cheese, grated
20    Black Nicoise olives, pitted
PREPARE THE TART DOUGH. If you are using unyeasted crust, partially
prebake it. Halve the peppers lengthwise, remove the seeds and veins,
then halve them crosswise and slice very thinly. Warm 2 tablespoons
of the olive oil in a wide pan, add the peppers, onion, half the
garlic and 1/4 teaspoon salt. Saute over medium-high heat for several
minutes, then lower the heat, add the water or white wine, cover and
stew until the peppers and onion are very soft and sweet. If the
peppers and onion threaten to stick as the sugars are released, add
additional small amounts of water or wine. Taste for salt, and season
with freshly ground black pepper when the peppers and onion are
finished cooking. Put 2 tablespoons of the olive oil in a blender jar
with the remaining garlic and a few of the basil leaves and puree.
Gradually add the rest of the basil leaves, using more oil if
necessary. Scrape the puree out of the jar, stir in the Parmesan or
Romano cheese and season with salt. If using the yeasted tart dough,
prepare the shell, then make the custard. Beat the eggs and yolks
together, then add the cream, 1/2 teaspoon salt and pepper. Preheat
the oven to 400F. Paint the crust with the basil puree, then lay half
the grated Provolone cheese on top, followed by the peppers and
onion, and the olives. Add the remaining cheese, then the custard.
Bake the tart in the center of the oven until it is golden brown, and
set, 35 to 40 minutes. Let the tart rest 5 to 10 minutes before
serving.

DEBORAH MADISON - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK

