Title: RED KIDNEY BEAN SOUP
Categories: Soups, Appetizers, Lunch, Vegetables, Mark's
Yield: 1 Recipe
1 tb Vegetable oil
1 md Onion, sliced
4 ea Garlic cloves, crushed
1 md Carrot, sliced
2 tb Red chiles, chopped, fresh*
1/2 ts Thyme
2 tb Parsley
2 ea Bay leaves
1/2 c  Tomatoes, finely chopped
3 ts Tomato paste
1 c  Red kidney beans, soaked
7 c  Vegetable stock
Salt & pepper
1/2 tb Nutritional yeast, optional+
Heat oil in a large soup pot.  Stir in the onions, garlic and carrots.
Cover & sweat over low heat for 5 minutes. Add the chiles and herbs,
stir well & continue to cook, covered, for a further 5 minutes. Stir
in the tomatoes, tomato paste & kidney beans. Mix well, ensure that
the heat is very low, & cook for 3 to 5 minutes, stirring
occasionally. Pour in the stock, season with salt & pepper & bring to
a boil. When at a full rolling boil, let it boil hard for 5 minutes,
then reduce the heat & simmer until the beans are tender. The length
of time will vary, depending upon the age of the beans, from 50
minutes, to 2 hours. When cooked, turn off the heat, stir in the
nutritional yeast, if desired & let cool.

Once cool, transfer the soup, in batches, to a food processor or
blender & blend until very smooth. Return to a clean pot & gently
re-heat. Serve with good, home-made bread.  It will also work with a
good, hearty flat bread, if that's not too much of a contradiction in
terms. Try a Native flat bread, for example.

* I'm experimenting with fresh chiles rather than dry ones, I find the
flavour to be intense, but I find that I may be over doing the
quantities, so reduce the amount if you prefer less hot food. If you
do not have fresh, a good guideline is to use dried in the following
quantities: 1 dried chile gives a mild flavour; 2 give a medium heat;
3 will be hot; then there's people like me & others who will go up
from there, depending upon taste. The trick is to use only enough
chiles so that the other tastes are not masked.

+ This is optional.  It's another area of experimenting. I find that a
little nutritional yeast in pureed foods, or in "cream" sauces, gives
added creaminess to dishes.  It is entirely up to the cook.

Recipe by Mark Satterly.

