Title: RED RASPBERRY TART
Categories: New text im, Desserts
Yield: 10 Servings
THE CRUST:  makes two 8-10
Inch tarts
2 1/2 c  All-purpose flour
1 ts Salt
1 ts Granulated sugar --
Optional
1 c  Cold unsalted butter -- cut
Into small piece
1/4 c  To 1/2 cup ice water
THE FILLING:
1 pt Heavy cream
1/3 c  Quince syrup -- (below)
3 pt Fresh red raspberries
THE GLAZE:
1/4 c  Quince jelly (below) --
Melted and cooled
Slightly
QUINCE JELLY: (makes appr. 2
Pints)
4 c  Quinces -- stemmed, seeded,
And
Cut up
Granulated sugar
QUINCE SYRUP:
4 c  Quinces, stemmed, seeded,
And cut up
Granulated sugar
To make crust: All ingredients should be cold. Put flour, salt and
sugar in the bowl of a food processor. Add butter and process for
approximately 10 seconds, or just until the mixture resembles coarse
meal. Add ice water, drop by drop, through the feed tube with the
machine running, just until the dough holds together without being
wet or sticky. (Don't process more than 30 seconds.) Test the dough
by squeezing a small amount together. If it's crumbly, add a bit more
water.

Turn half the dough out onto a large piece of plastic wrap. Grasping
the ends of the plastic wrap with your hands, cover dough with the
plastic and press it into into a flat circle with your fists. Repeat
process with other half. Wrap dough in the plastic and chill for at
least an hour.

Lightly butter (or spray with vegetable cooking spray) an 8-inch
heart-shaped tart pan.

On a lightly floured board, roll out one of the pastry circles to a
thickness of 1/8 inch. Place the pastry in the pan, which has been
set on a parchment-lined baking sheet, and press it into the bottom
edges and along the sides. Trim pastry with scissors. (I often cut
the pastry an inch higher than the pan's edge and tuck this overhang
to the inside of the pan for extra height and reinforcement.) Crimp
edges. Chill until ready to use. Repeat process with second pastry
circle. If you plan to make only one tart, freeze this unbaked shell
for future use.

Preheat oven to 400 degrees. Cover the pastry with aluminum foil and
then carefully press foil into the corners and edges to form a
lining. Weight with ceramic or aluminum weights. (Or use uncooked
beans or rice.)

Bake for 25 minutes. When pastry begins to color around the edges,
remove foil and weights and continue baking until the pastry turns a
deep amber color. Cool completely before filling.

To make Quince Jelly: Cook quinces with enough water to cover until
very soft. Pour into a jelly bag (or fine linen dishcloth). Let the
juice drip through without squeezing or pressing. To each cup of
juice add 1 cup sugar. Bring to a boil and, while keeping at a full
rolling boil, skim off any scum. Cook until jelly coats a metal
spoon. Store in coveredjars in refrigerator.

To make Quince Syrup: Proceed as for jelly, but cook the juice only
until the liquid begins to thicken. The mixture should remain liquid
and should not jell.

To make filling: Whip the cream until soft peaks form. Add syrup and
whip until stiff. Spread cream evenly in tart shell. Carefully
arrange half the raspberries on top of cream. Make a neat second
layer with remaining berries. Lightly glaze berries with melted
quince jelly. Serve immediately.

Per serving: 389 calories; 27.5 g fat (17.3 g saturated fat; 87
percent calories from fat); 90 mg cholesterol; 223 mg sodium.
Analysis is based on 10 servings.

: Ask Martha Stewart 2/3/96
Recipe By

Date: Fri, 12 Jul 1996 23:38:41
From: Adamsfmle@aol.Com
~0400

