Title: RED SNAPPER WITH SPRING VEGETABLE VINAIGRETTE
Categories: Main dish, Fish, Vegetables, Puck
Yield: 4 Servings
4    Red snapper fillets; skin on
- 3 to 4 oz. each
3 tb Olive oil
1/2 bn Basil (fresh); chopped
1/2 md Red onion; thinly sliced
Salt
White pepper; freshly ground
MMMMM-------------------VEGETABLE VINAIGRETTE------------------------
1/3 c  Olive oil
1/3 c  Balsamic vinegar
2 ts Lime juice (fresh)
1/2 lb Asparagus
1    Carrot (about 4 oz.); peeled
-and diced
4 oz Broccoli flowerets (small)
1 sm Red bell pepper; cored,
-seeded, and diced
1/2 lb Tomatoes (about 2); peeled,
-seeded and diced
2 lb Shallots; diced
1 tb Sun-dried tomatoes*; diced
MMMMM-------------------------EQUIPMENT------------------------------
Small bowl and larger bowl
Whisk
Vegetable peeler
Fine strainer
Ovenproof skillet
I created this recipe for a wine dinner at the Rainbow Room in New
York City.  A crisp sauvignon blanc was the wine that accompanied the
salad. If you can find small whole red snappers, this would be a
perfect entree for a warm-weather luncheon.  Stuff the cavity with a
few sprigs of parsley or tarragon and watch out for bones when
eating. (WP)

1. Score the fillets with a sharp knife (they will absorb the marinade
better), arrange on a plate, and spoon over the olive oil. Sprinkle
with the basil and red onion, and let marinate for 1 hour,
refrigerated. Just before cooking, season lightly with salt and
pepper.

2. Preheat the oven to 450 degrees.

3. Prepare the vegetable vinaigrette: In a small bowl, whisk together
the 1/3 cup olive oil, vinegar, and lime juice. Set aside.

4. With a vegetable peeler, peel away any rough scales on the
asparagus spears, cut off the hard bottoms, and dice. Blanch the
asparagus, carrot, broccoli, and red pepper separately. (You can do
this most easily by placing each vegetable in a fine strainer and
plunging into boiling salted water for about 2 minutes per
vegetable.) Cool and transfer to a mixing bowl.  Add the tomatoes,
shallots, and sun dried tomatoes. Whisk the dressing and, reserving a
little for the greens, toss the vegetables with the dressing and
season with salt and pepper to taste.

5. Heat an ovenproof skillet large enough to hold the fillets in one
layer. Add the 2 teaspoons of olive oil and when it almost begins to
smoke, lay the fillets in the pan and sear on one side for 1 minute.
Transfer to the oven and continue to cook 3 to 4 minutes longer. The
fillets do not need to be flipped.  (Fish should be cooked on the
outside and a little underdone on the inside.)

6. Toss the greens with the reserved dressing.

Presentation: Divide the greens and mound in the center of 4 large
serving plates.  Arrange a layer of the vegetable vinaigrette on one
side of the greens and top with one of the fillets, skin-side down.
Serve immediately.

To prepare ahead: Have the fish marinating, the salad greens cleaned
and ready, the vegatables blanced, and continue with the recipe at
serving time.

*To reconstitute sun-dried tomatoes, steep in boiling water to cover
until tender, 3 to 5 minutes.

SOURCE: Adventures in the Kitchen with Wolfgang Puck Typed for you by
Nancy Coleman

