Title: REFRIGERATOR DAY BEEF POT PIE
Categories: Beef, Pies, Roast, Four star
4 sl bacon -- chopped
Yield: 1 Servings
1    onion -- thinly sliced
1    clove garlic -- minced
1/2 lb mushrooms -- sliced, *
3 md red potatoes -- boiled &
cubed, *
:
2 c  leftover pot roast -- bite
sized cubes
:
1 c  thawed "petite" peas
3 TB butter
3 TB flour
2 1/2 c  chicken broth or beef broth
1/4 c  chopped dill weed -- * see
note
:
1    Kosher dill pickle --
chopped
Salt and pepper
Refrigerated pastry crust
for top of 9inch -- pie
:
:
:
:

*Boiled red potatoes 15 minues cooled and cut into cubes. *Used small
can of sliced mushrooms. *about 1 tabelspoon dried dill. In a skillet
heat bacon and cook until bits have rendered. Strain and reserve the
bits for later. In remaining fat in skillet (add some oil if not
enough) add onions and saute for 5 minutes or until tender. Add
garlic and mushrooms and continue to saute a couple of minutes or
until cooked through. Remove the skillet from the heat and strain out
any excess fat and liquid by pouring contents through a sieve; add
bacon bits to onions and mushrooms in a mixing bowl. Stir in leftover
pot roast and peas and set aside. In a small saucepan, heat 3
tablespoons of butter and add the flour. Cook for a minutes to make a
roux. Add broth and whisk vigorously . Bring to a simmer and cook for
a few minutes or until thickened. Add dill weed and pickle and adjust
the seasoning.

Preheat oven to 475 degrees. Pour sauce over the beef, peas, etc. and
season to taste with salt and pepper. Pour the mixture in a
quartsize, 2 inch deep round baking dish. Roll out pastry and set
over the pie. Tuck excess dough under the rim and crimp the edges
decoratively if you wish. Cut a couple of slits in the crust to allow
steam to escape. Set pie on a baking sheet and set in middle of oven.
Bake at high heat for 15 minutes. Lower heat to 375 degrees and bake
for 15 minutes more or until crust is golden and the filling is hot.

Yield: 4 servings

:
Recipe By

From: Gerald Edgerton <jerrye@wizard.Codate: Sat, 26 Oct 1996 11:07:31
~0700

