Title: REFRIGERATOR NO-CHEESE CAKE
Categories: Diabetic, Desserts, Cakes
Yield: 1 Servings
4 lg (2 1/2 x 2 1/2-inches)
-graham crackers
1 ts Margarine
1 tb Granulated gelatin
1/2 c  Cold water
-
2 c  Plain low-fat yogurt
-Sugar substitute
-equivalent to
1 tb Sugar
-
1/2 c  Iced water
1 1/2 ts Grated lemon rind
1    Egg white
1/2 c  Instant nonfat dry milk
2 tb Fresh lemon juice
1 1/2 ts Pure vanilla extract
-Sugar substitute
-equivalent to
1 tb Sugar
3    Maraschino cherries,
-halved, or 6
-small strawberries for
-garnish
Put crackers in a plastic bag and tie top; crush with a rolling pin
or jar to make fine crumbs.  Melt margarine in the bottom of a 8- or
9-inch round cake pan. Spread margarine evenly over bottom of pan.
Sprinkle crumbs evenly on bottom only; press gently. Chill in
refrigerator. Soak gelatin in cold water. Heat over boiling water to
dissolve the gelatin. Combine yogurt and first measure of sweetener;
beat at moderate speed with rotary beaters, adding dissolved gelatin
gradually. Chill until it is the consistency of unbeaten egg whites.
Meanwhile, place iced water, lemon rind, egg white, and dry milk
powder in a large bowl. Beat with rotary beaters until soft peaks
form. Add lemon juice, vanilla, and second measure of sweetener. Beat
at high speed until stiff.  Fold into partially set yogurt; blend
very well.  Spoon mixture on top of crumbs in pan. Chill 4 hours or
longer until set.  To unmold, loosen around edge of mold with thin
spatula right down to bottom of pan.  Place larger plate upside down
on top of mold. Turn plate and pan over; cover top of pan for a few
seconds with a hot cloth that has been run under hot water and then
rung out. Remove cloth and lift pan from mold.  When ready to serve,
garnish with cherries or strawberries and cut into six equal slices.
6 Servings 1 Serving: 1/6 Cake Nutritive values per serving: 13 gm.
carbohydrates; 8 gm. protein; 2 gm. fat; 104 calories; 0.3 gm. fiber;
124 mg. sodium; 6 mg. cholesterol Food Exchange per serving: 1
Low-Fat Milk Exchange Low-sodium diets: This recipe is suitable.
From: The Art of Cooking For The Diabetic

Date: 08-19-93
From: Fred Mueller

