Title: REVIEW OF COUNTRY LIFE BRUNCH (BOSTON)
Categories: Text, Restaurant, Digest
Yield: 1 Servings
1 x  Text file
Last Sunday my 4yo and I had brunch at Country Life in Boston. It
seemed a little disorganized (I couldn't figure out the logistics at
first) but the food was pretty good. I asked about fat content and
was given a fairly thorough oil content summary.  The person with
whom I spoke claimed they are very conscious of using as little oil
as possible, waffles & french toast have no oil and 1tsp of oil total
used for their (rather good) strawberry rhubarb tart crust.  They
also had other baked goods which he said was low fat (I didn't press
for details since I had enough other things to eat), a hot apple
cobbler (w/no added oil topping), a delicious frozen fruit drink,
steamed brocolli, plain rice, eggplant/tofu lasagna (not too heavy on
the tofu), a curry(?) tofu dish (not lowfat unfortunately), a small
salad bar (w/a delicious NF garlic & red cabbage dressing), two
soups, etc. etc.
My 4yo ate tons of fresh fruit cocktail. For one adult & one child,
it was $12.  (If you want real coffee you have to bring your own,
which I saw others doing).

I forgot to ask about soy milk use though, so perhaps next person to
go can ask about that?

BTW Does anyone have suggestions for a REALLY NICE brunch place? My
husband is planning on taking me out for Mother's Day to the Harbour
Hotel, which has a great buffet but seems very $$$ for the amount of
food I can eat there :-( I wasn't sure how he would take my
suggestion of going someplace else but he was surprisingly amenable
(he even said how about a vegetarian place !!!), but I don't think he
really wants to eat scrambled tofu and we also want to go someplace a
bit dress-up. I've been calling places but so far I haven't come up
with anything clearly better. Has anyone been to Cornucopia?  They
suggested on the phone fruit platters & salads, which makes me a bit
wary :-(

Aiko Pinkoski aiko@epoch.com From Fatfree Digest April-May 1994,
Formatting by Sue Smith (using MMCONV)

