Title: RHUBARB & STRAWBERRY TART
Categories: Desserts
Yield: 8 Servings
3/4 c  Unsalted butter (1 1/2
-sticks) melted and cooled
1 lb Phyllo pastry sheets
Sugar
1    Egg white, beaten to blend
2 tb Dry breadcrumbs
2 c  Fresh (1/2-inch pieces) or
-frozen unsweetened
Rhubarb, thawed
2 c  Strawberries, sliced
1 c  Sugar
1/4 c  Quick-cooking tapioca
1 ts Fresh lemon juice
2 tb Unsalted butter (1/4 stick),
-well chilled
Preheat oven to 425 F.  Generously butter a 9 x 2-inch fluted tart
pan with removable bottom.  Stack 12 phyllo pastry sheets on work
surface (cover remainder with dry towel and top with damp towel).
Fold left half of pastry stack over right half, forming book. Unfold
top sheet. Brush very lightly with melted butter and sprinkle lightly
with sugar. Repeat until last sheet on left is opened. DO NOT BUTTER.
Fold right side of stack over left side. Open top sheet. Butter and
sprinkle with sugar. Repeat until pastry sheets are opened flat.  Fit
stack of pastry into prepared pan, draping excess pastry over rim.
Run rolling pin firmly over pan to cut phyllo. Place pan on baking
sheet.  Brush phyllo with egg white. Bake until light brown, 3 to 5
minutes.  Cool completely. Sprinkle crust with breadcrumbs. Combine
rhubarb, strawberries, sugar, tapioca, and lemon juice. Spoon into
crust. Dot with chilled butter. Butter and sugar 1 remaining phyllo
sheet. Cut in half length- wise. Fold each piece in half lengthwise;
butter and sprinkle with sugar. Fold in half 2 more times without
buttering and sugaring, and form into 1/2- to 3/4-inch rolls. Repeat
with remaining pastry sheets. Place rolls atop filling around edges
of pan overlapping ends by 1 inch and spiraling in toward center. For
center, hold 1 pastry roll between thumb and index finger. Wrap
phyllo around fingers tucking end under. Place in center of tart.
Brush tart with some of remaining melted butter and sprinkle with
sugar. Place on baking sheet. Bake until rhubarb is tender and crust
is golden brown, 35 to 40 minutes, covering loosely with foil if top
browns too quickly. Cool completely on wire rack. Loosen tart from
pan with knife; remove rim. Serve tart at room temperature.

Makes 8 to 10 servings.

[ Cooking with Bon Appetit: Pies and Tarts; Knapp, 1986 ]

