Title: RHUBARB LEMON TOFU "PIE" (VLF VEGAN)
Categories: Vegetables, Sept., Desserts
Yield: 1 Servings
5    Stalks rhubarb, washed,
Leaves discarded
1    Granny smith apple, peeled,
Cored and cubed
Dozen large strawberries
6 oz Firm (reduced fat) tofu
Juice of 1/2 lemon
1/4 c  + 2 T sugar
2 tb Whole wheat flour
2 ts Sugar + 2 t whole wheat
Flour (or optional pie crust
And crust crumble)
In a rice cooker, (or pot) add a little water and the rhubarb stalks,
chopped.  Cook covered for several minutes (be more observant if doing
rangetop cooking, as heat source may be hotter, and add water as
needed). When rhubarb is pretty well done, carefully remove the cover
(have an oven mitt on) and add the cubed apple, strawberries, and 1/4
c sugar. Cover and continue cooking a few more minutes.

Meanwhile, puree the tofu in a food processor or chopper, until very
smooth.  Add lemon juice, 2 T sugar, 2 T whole wheat flour, and
process until well blended. Line an 8" pie tin with oil, (here you
can add a pie shell if you prefer, instead of...) and sprinkle to
coat with a sugar and whole wheat flour mixture, about 2 t each.
Spread the tofu mixture into the pie tin (or onto the crust).  Bake
at 400 F for a few minutes, (until crust is done, if using a crust).
Remove and cool.

Check rhubarb mixture for sweetness (I use a minimum of sugar), and
adjust to your preference.  Pour into a fine (or cheesecloth lined)
seive, and drain off juices, do not squeese dry. Save juices for some
other use (perhaps for a jelly).  Pour remaining rhubarb mixture over
the baked lemon tofu. Refrigerate (or top with crust crumble and bake
again until done). The texture of the fruit mixture does not jell, or
thicken, when the smaller amount of sugar is used, but I like it the
way it is. The lemon tofu is in sweet contrast to the more tart but
still sweet rhubarb and fruit filling.

From: Lu Bozinovich <U33754@uicvm.uic.edu>.  rfvc Digest V94 Issue
#200 Sept. 17, 1994. Formatted by Sue Smith, S.Smith34,
TXFT40A@Prodigy.com using MMCONV.

