Title: RICE FLAN TART WITH CANDIED GINGER
Categories: Rice, Desserts
Yield: 12 Servings
3 c  Nonfat milk
1/2    Vanilla bean, split
1/4 c  Medium-grain rice
1/2 c  Sugar
1    (8-ounce) carton frozen
Egg substitute, thawed
1/3 c  Low-fat ricotta cheese or
Pureed fat-free cottage
Cheese
2 tb Finely slivered candied
Ginger
1    Low-Fat Sweet Pastry
1 ts Ground cinnamon
1 tb Powdered sugar, optional
Sliced candied ginger,
Optional
MMMMM--------------------LOW-FAT SWEET PASTRY-------------------------
1/2 c  Plus 2 tablespoons oat flour
Blend
5 tb All-purpose flour
1/4 c  Cake flour
1/2 ts Ground cardamom or cinnamon
2 1/2 tb Sugar
3 ts Cold butter, diced
1 tb Canola oil
2-2 1/2 tb very cold water The low-calorie rice pudding flan is so
delicious by itself that you may want to save the calories and fat in
the crust, and serve it without the pastry. Bring nonfat milk to boil
in medium saucepan. Add vanilla bean and rice. Cover partially and
simmer until rice is almost tender, about 20 to 30 minutes, stirring
occasionally. Stir in sugar and continue and continue cooking 3
minutes. Remove from heat and cool slightly. Remove vanilla bean.
Blend egg substitute with ricotta cheese. Stir into rice mixture with
candied ginger. Carefully pour into prepared pastry shell, filling
almost to the top (if there is any flan mixture left from incomplete
reduction in cooking, place in small custard dish, cover and
microwave 40 to 60 seconds or until set.) Sprinkle with 1/4 teaspoon
cinnamon. Bake at 400 degrees F. 25 to 30 minutes or until set.
Remove from oven. Sift powdered sugar over and sprinkle with
remaining cinnamon. Serve warm and garnish with sliced ginger if
desired. Makes 12 servings. Each serving contains about: 183
calories; 102 mg sodium; 11 mg cholesterol; 4 grams fat; 31 grams
carbohydrates; 6 grams protein; 0.25 gram fiber. The use of oat flour
blend and cake flour is what gives this low-fat crust its tenderness.
It also makes it more difficult to roll, but don't despair: The dough
is easily patched. Low-Fat Sweet Pastry Sift flour, cardamom and
sugar into large bowl. Rub in butter with fingers or cut in with
pastry blender until size of small peas. Using fork, stir in oil.
Slowly add cold water, 1 teaspoon at a time, tossing with fork until
flour is moistened without being wet. Gather dough with moist hands,
shape into flattened round and let rest about 15 minutes. Roll
1/8-inch thick on lightly floures board. (To facilitate rolling,
dough may also be rolled between sheets of wax paper Or unrolled
dough may be placed in pan and gently pressed  to cover inside of
pan.) Gently lift and press onto 9-inch square tart pan with
removable bottom. Cut off dough edges. Bake at 425 degrees F. 10 to
15 minutes or until golden brown. Makes 12 servings. NOTE: Unsalted
butter will give a more delicate fresh flavor in this pastry. Add a
dash of salt if using.

