Title: RIGATONI WITH HEARTY LAMB SAUCE
Categories: Pasta, Main dish
Yield: 4 Servings
1 lb Rigatoni or Medium Shells
-or other medium pasta
-shape, uncooked
12 oz Lamb stew meat; OR...
2 lb -Shoulder lamb chops
1 c  Italian plum tomatoes,
-(canned), or...
1 c  -canned crushed tomatoes
1 tb Olive or vegetable oil
2  garlic cloves
-- peeled and finely chopped
1 md Onion; finely chopped
1 ts Minced fresh rosemary; or..
1/2 ts -Dried rosemary*
1/2 ts Minced fresh thyme; or...
1/4 ts -Dried thyme
1 1/2 c  Dry red wine
1 pn Ground nutmeg
1 pn Ground cloves
Salt and pepper to taste
1/3 c  Grated Parmesan cheese
Serves 4 to 6

Ask the grocery butcher to remove fat from the meat and coarsely
grind the lamb for you. Or, remove the fat and bone and coarsely chop
the meat in a food processor. Place the plum tomatoes in a bowl and
break up with a fork until coarsely crushed.

Heat oil in a medium saucepan over medium-high heat. Add the lamb and
garlic and cook until the meat begins to brown, about 3 minutes. Add
the onion, rosemary and thyme; cook 1 minute. Add the crushed
tomatoes, wine, nutmeg, cloves and salt and pepper to taste. Heat to
a boil and reduce the heat to simmering. Cook, uncovered, until the
lamb is very tender, about 45 minutes. Check the lamb occasionally.
There should always be enough liquid to cover the meat. If not, add a
small amount of water.

Prepare pasta according to package directions; drain. Return the
pasta to the pot. Add the lamb sauce to the pot and cook over low
heat until heated through, stirring constantly. Stir in half the
Parmesan cheese. Divide pasta among serving bowls. Sprinkle with
remaining cheese and serve.

*Note: If using dried rosemary, soften it as follows: Place the
rosemary in a heatproof bowl and pour about 1 cup boiling water over
it. Let stand 5 minutes. Drain before using.

Each serving provides: 469 Calories; 27.5 g Protein; 47.2 g
Carbohydrates; 13.3 g Fat; 64.5 mg Cholesterol; 181 mg Sodium.
Calories from Fat: 26%

Copyright National Pasta Association (http://www.ilovepasta.org)
(Reprinted with permission)

