Title: RISOTTO WITH PORCINI MUSHROOMS
Categories: Rice, Italian
Yield: 9 Servings
1 oz Dried porcini, soaked in 1
Cup hot water for 1 hour
6 T  Unsalted butter, divided use
1 T  Olive oil
1    Medium red onion, peeled and
Chopped
1 cl Garlic, peeled and chopped
1/2 c  Red table wine
14 oz Arborio rice, about 2 cups
6 c  Meat or vegetable stock,
Heated, divided use
2 t  Fine sea salt, or to taste
1/4 t  Freshly ground black pepper,
Or to taste
4 T  Chopped flat-leaf parsley
2 oz Parmigiano-Reggiano (about
1/2 cup), grated
1. Drain, reserving the liquid, and rinse the mushroom well. Cut them
into strips.

2. Heat 3 T of the butter and the olkive oil in a large (12") skillet
or saute pan, and add the onion and garlic.  Saute gently for 2
minutes, add the wine, and continue stirring until the wine has
almost disappeared.

3. add the srborio rice and saute 1 minute, stirring constantly. still
stirring, add a large (6-ounce) ladle of meat or vegetable stock.
When the stock has disappeared, adde the rehydrated drained porcini,
and still stirring, another ladle of stock.  When the stock has been
absorbed, add the mushroom liquid through a fine strainer. Continue
adding stock as needed until the rice is cooked, about 20 minutes.
You may not need all the liquid, or you may need more.) The rice is
cooked when it is tender and creamy with a slightly crunchy center.
Add the salt and pepper.

4. Remove from heat, stir in parsley and remaining butter until well
mixed, then stir in the Parmigiano-Reggiano and serve.

FOR EXTRA LIGHT: Eliminate the butter, use 1-1/2 T olive oil, and
reduce the Parmigiano-Reggiano by half.

MAKE IT AHEAD: You can make the risotto up to 2 hours in advance
through Step 3, reserving 1 cup of stock.  Wheen you are ready, heat
the risotto, stir in the reserved stock, and proceed with Step 4.

SERVING SUGGESTION: For a light luncheon or supper, serve with a
Caesar salad.  If you want to serve as a first course, serve a very
small portion, followed by grilled chicken, meat, or fish.

NUTRITUTIONAL INFORMATION (per serving, based on 9 servings): 304
calories, 11.5 grams fat, 6.1 grams saturated fat, 25 milligrams
cholesterol, 1247 milligrams sodium, 34% calories from fat.

SOURCE: HomeChef, Newport Beach, "The Essential Series " stocks and
sauces class, as published in the Orange County Register.

