Title: RISOTTO VARIATIONS
Categories: Italian
Yield: 4 Servings
1    Basic risotto recipe
RISOTTO WITH WHITE TRUFFLES:
Prepare the Basic Risotta, omitting the garlic and cooking the
onion in 3 Tbsp butter.  Use short grain California pearl rice amd 3
cups chicken broth, adding to it the juice drained from 1 can (1 oz.)
white truffles. When rice is almost tender, stir in 1/2 cup whipping
cream. Slice the truffles paper thin.  To finish, stir in the 1 Tbsp
butter, 3/4 cup grated Parmesan cheese, amd about half the truffles.
Pour into a serving dish and top with the balance of the truffles and
sprinkle with about 1/4 cup more of cheese.

RISOTTO ALLA MILANESE: Soak 5 large slices dried Italian mushrooms in
hot water about 1 hour, rinse, drain, chop, and add to saute with
onions in the Basic Risotto recipe. (or use about 4 medium-sized
fresh mushrooms, chopped.)
Use chicken broth for the liquid.  About 5 to 10 minutes before the
rice is done, stir in with a fork 1/4 teaspoon saffrron, disolved in
1/4 cup Madeira, white wine, or chicken broth. (the Madeira makes an
outstanding dish.)

RISSOTO VERDE:

Use the Basic Risotto recipe, except substitute 3 slices green onion.
While the rice is simmering, prepare this mixture; place 2 Tbsp
butter or margarine in a frying pan over medium heat. Add 1 carrot,
shredded, and one stalk celery, thinly sliced; cover and cook about 5
minutes. Add 2 cups finely chopped fresh spinach or Swiss chard and 2
Tbsp minced parsley, continue to cook, stirring several times, about
3 minutes; sprinkle with a dash of nutmeg and add vegetables to rice
when it is about three-quarters done. Finish as for Basic Risotto,
omitting the final
1    Tbsp butter.

RISOTTO ALLA FINANZIERA:

Prepare the Basic Risotto, using chicken broth.  While it is
simmering, prepare this sauce:  Heat 2 Tbsp butter in a frying pan.
Add 1 medium- sized onion, chopped, saute until onion is golden. Add
1 cup sliced fresh mushrooms, 1/2 pound chicken livers (cut in bite
sized pieces), 1/8 tsp EACH ground sage and crushed bay leaf, and 1/2
tsp salt, continue to saute over medium heat about 5 minutes.  Add
1/4 cup DRY Sherry or chicken broth; cook quickly until almost all
liquid has been evaporated.
Stir half the sauce into risotto with the first addition of cheese,
omitting the 1 Tbsp butter.  Turn out onto a serving dish, making a
well in the centre of the risotto, add the remaining sauce to the
well, then sprinkle with the remaining cheese.

