Title: RISSOTO CAKES
Categories: Rice, Cakes
Yield: 6 Servings
16    Servings
4 1/2 c  Of chicken stock
6 tb Unsalted butter
1 md Onion, finely chopped
1 1/2 c  Arborio rice
1 c  Dry white wine
1/2 c  Freshly grated parmesan
-cheese
1 lg Egg, lightly beaten
1/2 c  All-Purpose flour
2 tb Olive oil
1. In a medium saucepan, bring the chicken stock to a simmer over
moderate heat. Butter a 9 by 13 inch glass baking dish.

2. Melt 4 tbsp of the butter in a large non-reactive saucepan. Add the
onion and cook over moderate heat, stirring occasionally, until
softened, about 5 minutes. Add the rice and stir until coated with
butter, 1 to 2 minutes. Raise the heat to moderately high and pour in
the wine. Cook, stirring, until almost all the wine is absorbed,
about 4 minutes.

3. Add about 1 cup of the simmering stock ( enough to just cover the
rice ) and cook, stirring constantly, until the stock is absorbed.
Continue adding stock, about 1 cup at a time; stir constantly until
the stock is absorbed before adding more. The rice is done when it is
just cooked through and lightly bound with with creamy liquid, after
about 15 minutes. Remove from the heat and stir in the Parmesan
cheese. Let cool slightly, then stir in the egg. Spread the risotto
evenly in the prepared baking dish. Cover and refrigerate until very
firm, at least 4 hours or overnight.

4. Cut the risotto into 16 even squares. Shape each square into a
disk, about 2 1/2" in diameter and 1/2" thick. Coat the disks with
flour and refrigerate on a baking sheet until firm, about 20 minutes.

5. In a skillet, melt 1 tbsp of the butter in 1 tbsp of the olive
oil. Add 8 of the cakes to the skillet and cook over moderately high
heat, turning once, until browned and warmed through, about 3 minutes
per side. Transfer the cakes to a warm serving platter, cover and
keep warm in a low oven. Wipe out the pan and repeat with the
remaining butter, oil, and risotto cakes. (The risotto cakes can be
fried up to 1 day ahead. To serve, warm them in a 450 degree oven for
about 10 minutes, or until heated through.)

