Title: ROAST LOIN OF VENISON WITH CRANBERRIES
Categories: Meats, Roast
Yield: 8 Servings
2 ea Thick slices of lemon
2 ea Thick slices of orange
2 ea Slices fresh ginger, peeled
1 1/2 c  Sugar
1 sm Bay leaf
2 c  Fresh cranberries
4 lb Boneless loin of venison,
-at room temperature
2 tb Olive oil
1 ts Salt
1 1/4 ts Freshly ground pepper
3/4 ts Juniper berries, finely
-chopped
2 c  Dry red wine
2 c  Beef or venison stock
2 tb Cold butter, cut into pieces
Fresh thyme sprigs,
-for garnish
In a medium nonreactive saucepan, combine the lemon, orange, ginger,
sugar and bay leaf with 1 cup of cold water. Bring to a boil over
high heat, stirring to dissolve the sugar. Reduce the heat to
moderate and boil, uncovered, until syrupy, 10 to 15 minutes. Stir in
the cranberries, then remove from heat and cool. Transfer the mixture
to a glass container, coer and refrigerate for 1 to 2 days, stirring
once or twice during that time. Preheat the oven to 400F.  Rub the
venison with the olive oil, 3/4 teaspoon of the salt, 1 teaspoon of
the pepper and 1/2 teaspoon of the chopped juniper berries, pressing
the seasonings into the meat. Set the loin on a rack in a roasting
pan and roast, basting frequently with the pan juices, until
medium-rare (about 135F on a meat thermometer), 25 to 30 minutes.
Cover the venison loosely with foil and set aside for 10 to 15
minutes before carving. Meanwhile, remove and discard the bay leaf
and the lemon, orange and ginger slices from the cranberries. In a
food processor or blender, puree half the cranberries and half the
liquid until smooth. In a medium nonreactive saucepan, boil the wine
over high heat until reduced to 1/2 cup, about 5 mintues.  Add the
stock and bring to a boil. Add the cranberry puree, reduce the heat
to low and simmer, uncovered, until slightly thickened, about 10
minutes.  Remove from heat. Strain the reamining whole cranberrie and
add them to the sauce with the remaining 1/4 teaspoon each of salt,
pepper and chopped juniper berries. Swirl in the cold butter. Slice
the venison thinly (stir any juices into the sauce) and serve wtih
the sauce, reheated if necessary.

