Title: ROAST VEAL BRISKET WITH MARSALA-MUSHROOM SAUC
Categories: Meats, Poultry
Yield: 8 Servings
2 tb Vegetable oil
2    6-7 lb veal -- breast
Dried thyme
1 1/2 lb Medium onions -- quartered
2 tb Flour
1 1/2 lb Button mushrooms -- thickly
Sliced
4 c  Chicken stock
2 c  Marsala wine
2 oz Dried porcini mushrooms --
Rinsed and drained
8 lg Garlic cloves
1/4 ts Ground allspice
Preheat oven to 350F. Season veal generously with dried thyme, salt
and pepper. Heat oil in heavy large skillet over high heat. Add
onions and saute until brown, about 15 mins. Sprinkle flour over and
stir 3 mins. Transfer mixture to large roasting pan, spreading onions
in center and bones around edge. Add 1 brisket to same skillet and
cook until brown, about 5 mins. per side. Transfer brisket to
roasting pan and place atop onions. Repeat with second brisket.

Add button mushrooms, stock, Marsala, dried mushrooms, garlic and
allspice to same skillet. Bring mixture to boil, scraping up browned
bits. Pour contents of skillet over briskets. Cover tightly with
heavy-duty foil. Roast until briskets are very tender, about 2 hours.
Uncover; let cool at least 30 mins.

Transfer briskets to platter. Spoon onions into strainer set over
large saucepan. Press onions hard to release juices. Discard onions
in strainer. Set mushrooms aside. Strain pan juices in roasting pan
into same large saucepan. Spoon fat from top of pan juices and
discard. Boil until pan juices coat spoon lightly, about 20 mins.
Return reserved mushrooms to sauce. Season to taste with salt and
pepper.

Cut briskets diagonally across grain into thin slices; trim fat, if
desired. Overlap slices in large casserole. Spoon mushroom sauce
over. (Can be prepared 3 days ahead. Cover with foil and refrigerate.
Rewarm covered in 350F oven before continuing, about 45 mins.)
Garnish with fresh thyme, if desired, and serve.

Squeaks -- Rec.food.recipes is moderated; only recipes and recipe
requests are accepted for posting. Please read the "Posting
Guidelines" article. Recipes/requests go to recipes@rt66.com;
questions/comments go to tfdpress@acpub.duke.edu. Please allow
several days for your submission to appear.

From schiele@in.net Wed Aug 14 11:20:22 1996 This is a dandy
variation on veal marsala:

: Bon Appetit
Recipe By

From: Debbie Barry - Innermail   Emc.Ve

