Title: ROAST PORK LOIN WITH SAGE CRUST & APPLE BRA
Categories: Pork
Yield: 4 Servings
1 oz Fresh sage; woody stems re-
-moved, chopped (1/2 cup)
2    Cloves garlic; crushed (or3)
1/4 c  Olive oil
1/4 ts Black peppercorns; crushed
2 lb Pork loin, center-cut;
-boneless
2 c  Veal stock; divided use*
2 md Apples, tart; (Granny Smith
-or Braeburn)
1 tb Olive oil
1/4 c  Shallots; chopped
1 oz Fresh basil leaves; chopped
-(about 1/2 cup)
1/4 c  Calvados apple brandy**
1 tb Cornstarch
Salt & pepper to taste
* Defatted chicken stock or chicken broth may be substituted for the
veal stock. Frozen concentrated stock, which need not be defatted, is
sold at some specialty markets. "Perfect Addition" is a line of
frozen concentrated stock bases. It has just introduced a veal stock,
which isn't yet in full distribution.

**Brandy or Armagnac may be substituted for the Calvados.

1. Combine sage, garlic, 1/4 cup olive oil and peppercorns in a
shallow glass or other non-metal dish. Place pork loin in dish and
pat sage-garlic mixture on all sides. Cover and marinate in the
refrigerator at least 8 hours or overnight.

2. Place pork on a rack in a roasting pan. Roast in a preheated
450-degree oven for 15 minutes. Lower oven temperature to 350 degrees
and roast until the internal temperature reaches 160 degrees, about
25 to
30    more minutes.

3. Transfer meat to a hot platter. Cover with aluminum foil or place
in a warm oven to keep warm. Let meat rest for several minutes before
slicing.

4. Meanwhile, add 1/4 cup of hot stock to pan. With a fork or a wooden
spoon, scrape up browned bits from bottom of pan. Skim off fat. Pour
drippings into a cup.

5. To make the sauce: Core apples, but do not peel them. Chop into
1-inch cubes. Heat 1 tablespoon olive oil in a medium saucepan. Add
shallots and saute over medium heat until lightly browned, about 3 to
5 minutes. Add apples and basil, stirring to combine. Add Calvados.
Raise heat to medium-high. Stand back and ignite sauce with a long
match. (Or pour Calvados into a heat-safe ladle and ignite, then pour
into pan.) Stir in pan drippings and remaining 1 3/4 cup veal stock;
continue cooking over low heat for 15 minutes to reduce sauce.
Dissolve cornstarch in 2 tablespoons cold water and stir it into the
pan. Bring mixture to a full boil. Cook, stirring often, until sauce
thickens, about 1 minute. Remove from heat. Season with salt and
pepper. Serve immediately alongside pork.

Source: Chef Rene Bajeux of Bistrot Zinc/Cafe Zinc in Chicago;
printed in Chicago Sun-Times September 4, 1996

