Title: ROASTED VEGETABLE NAPOLEONS
Categories: Vegetables, Mine
Yield: 6 Servings
1/2 c  Olive oil
1 lb Eggplant Cut crosswise
-Into 1/3" thick slices
1 1/4 lb Zucchini Cut crosswise
4 lg Plum tomatoes(abt 1 1/4 lb)
-Cut lengthwise
-Into 1/3" thick slices
2 md Red onion(s)
-Cut into 1/3" thick slices
1 lb Medium red potatoes
-Cut into 1/3" thick slices
3/4 c  Ricotta cheese
1 1/2 t  Thyme leaves, chopped
1/2 lb Mozzarella Cut into 6 slices
-Each 1/4-inch thick
6    Rosemary sprigs
Preheat oven to 450 F.and brush 2 baking sheets with some of the
olive oil. Arrange as many vegetables as possible in one layer on
sheets. Brush vegetables with some remaining oil and season with salt
and pepper.  Roast in middle and lower thirds of oven, switching
positions of sheets in oven halfway through roasting, until just
tender and lightly browned, 10-15 min. Transfer vegetables as roasted
to a tray, arranging them in one layer. Repeat with remaining
vegetables.  Vegetables may be roasted 1 day ahead, cooled
completely, and chilled, layered between sheets of plastic wrap on
trays and covered. Bring to rooms temperature before proceeding. In a
small bowl stir together ricotta, thyme, and salt and pepper to
taste. Put 1 eggplant slice on a lightly oiled baking sheet. Spread 1
Tablespoon ricotta mixture over eggplant. Cover ricotta mixture with
2 potato slices and layer with 2 zucchini slices, 1 onion slice, 1
mozzarella slice, 2-3 tomato slices, 2 zucchini slices, and 1 onion
slice. Spread 1 Tablespoon ricotta mixture over onion and top with 1
eggplant slice. Make 5 more Napoleons using remaining vegetables,
ricotta mixture, and mozzarella. Insert a metal or wooden skewer
through center of each Napoleon to make a hole from top to bottom.
Trim rosemary sprigs to 1-inch taller than Napoleons and remove
bottom leaves from each sprig, leaving about 1-inch of leaves around
top. Insert 1 sprig into each Napoleon and bake in middle of oven for
5 min, or until mozzarella is melted and vegetables are heated
through. Serve with orzo.

Gourmet Magazine January 1996

