Title: ROAST GOOSE WITH POTATO PIEROGIES
Categories: Goose
Yield: 10 Servings
1    Goose (about 10 pounds);
-thawed
7 ts Thyme, dried; divided
1 ts Salt
1 ts Black pepper
4 tb Oil; divided
32 oz Pierogies, potato (2 pkgs)
2 c  Onion; chopped
2 tb Flour
2 c  Chicken broth
Preheat the oven to 400F.  Remove the neck and giblets; remove any
large pieces of fat from inside the goose and neck cavity; reserve
the neck and liver. Rinse the goose and pat dry with paper towels. In
a small bowl, combine 2 tablespoons thyme and the salt and pepper.
Rub the bird with 2 tablespoons oil, then rub with the thyme mixture.
Tuck the wings under and tie the legs together.  Place the goose,
breast- side up, on a rack in a large roasting pan.  Pierce the skin
all over with a 2-tined fork.

Roast the goose for 1 hour. During roasting, pierce the skin several
times with a fork.  To keep the fat from smoking, remove from the pan
with a baster or dip out with a cooking spoon. Reduce the oven
temperature to 325F. Roast for 2 to 2 1/2 hours longer, or until the
internal temperature registers 180 to 185 on a meat thermometer, and
the juices run clear when the bird is pierced with a knife. Continue
to pierce the skin and remove the fat while roasting. While the goose
is roasting, finely chop the neck meat and liver for making the
gravy. Refrigerate until ready to use.

When the goose is almost done, set a large pot of water to boil. Cook
the pierogies according to the package directions. Meanwhile, in a
large skillet, saute the onions in the remaining 2 tablespoons oil
until golden; remove from heat.  Drain the pierogies well; add the
cooked onions. Mix lightly to combine. Cover and keep warm. Place the
goose on a large serving platter; cover loosely with foil to keep
warm. Remove the remaining fat from the pan and place the pan
drippings into a glass measure; let any fat rise to the surface and
discard. Reserve 1/3 cup of the drippings. Set the roasting pan on
top of the stove. Add the reserved drippings. Saute the chopped neck
meat and liver for 5 minutes or until cooked. Blend in the flour;
cook, stirring constantly, until bubbly. Stir in the broth; cook and
stir until the mixture thickens and bubbles, about 3 minutes. Stir in
the remaining teaspoon of thyme.  Pour into a gravy boat. Arrange the
pierogie around the goose or place in a separate bowl. Serve with
gravy.

--- 1001 HOME IDEAS; November 1990

