Title: ROAST BREAST OF TURKEY WITH MASHED POTATOES A
Categories: Diner, Dinner, Poultry
1/4 c  olive oil
Yield: 6 Servings
2    cloves garlic -- minced
2 ts dried thyme -- crumbled
2 ts dried sage -- crumbled
salt and pepper
:
3 1/4 lb turkey light meat, skinless,
boneless
rolled and tied
:
:
2 c  chicken stock
GRAVY
:
1/2 c  water
1 TB cornstarch
1 c  chicken stock
1 ts canola oil -- butter
flavored
salt and pepper
:
:
3 lb boiled potatoes -- mashed
1 c  lowfat buttermilk
1    clove garlic -- roasted

THE BIRD: + Herb rub: In a large baking dish, stir together the olive
oil, garlic, thyme, sage and about 1/8 teaspoon pepper. Place the
turkey breast in the dish and rub the mixture over the entire surface
of the turkey breast. Wrap in saran, and refrigerate for 3 hrs or
overnight. + Preheat the oven to 350F (180C). + Place the breast on a
rack in metal roasting pan, season lightly with salt and pepper and
pour 1 cup chicken stock into the bottom of the pan. Tent with foil.
Roast, basting with the pan juices every 15 minutes or so, adding the
rest of the stock as needed, until instant-read thermometer insert
into the center registers 165F (74C), about 1 hour and 20 minutes. +
Transfer the breast to warmed serving platter and cover with aluminum
foil while you make the gravy. THE GRAVY: Place the roasting pan on
the stove top over high heat, add the water and deglaze the pan by
stirring to dislodge any browned bits on the pan bottom. Boil until
the liquid is reduced by half, about 2 minutes. Turn off heat source.
Dissolve the cornstarch in the stock, add optional butter flavored
canola oil.  With a whisk, add the thickener tothe pan liquids, turn
heat source on to medium-high and continue to whisk until thickened,
as much as 5 minutes.  Season to taste with salt and pepper. Service:
Snip and discard the string from the turkey breast. Slice the meat
and serve on warmed individual plates. Place a mound of mashed
potatoes alongside and drizzle the gravy over the turkey and
potatoes. Sides: cranberry-raspberry relish; a platter of corn and
peas garnished with gratedraw carrot and orange zest.

Recipe from Diner: Best of Casual American Cooking  by Diane Rossen
Worthington (1995).  Part of a series: Casual Cuisines of the World
(Sunset Books, $19.95). [Edited Oct 1996: Pat H. McRecipe, III: about
530 cals, 14 g fat].

: idea from Diane Rossen Worthington, Diner
Recipe By

Date: Thu, 24 Oct 1996 10:15:37
~0700 (

