Title: ROAST TURKEY WITH GRAND MARNIER APRICOT STUFFING
Categories: Main dish
Yield: 12 Servings
1 ea Turkey 21 pounds
2 ea Oranges cut in half
1 ts Dried thyme
Salt pepper to taste
2 c  Butter, room temp.
MMMMM--------------------------STUFFING-------------------------------
1 c  Diced, dried apricots
1 1/2 c  Grand Marnier
Turkey liver and heart
1 c  Unsalted butter
2 c  Coarsly chopped celery
1 lg Yellow onion,chopped
1 lb Bulk pork sausage
1 lb Herb stuffing mix
1 c  Slivered almonds
2 c  Chicken stock
1/2 ts Dried thyme
Salt and pepper to taste
Make the stuffing Preheat oven to 450 F.  Rinse the turkey inside and
out and pat dry. Squeeze the juice of the oranges all over the turkey
and in the neck and body cavities.  Spoon the stuffing loosly into
the cavities. Set aside any extra stuffing. Sew up the cavities or
close with small trussing skewers.  Place the turkey on a soasting
rack in a roasting pan. Sprinkle all over with tyme and salt and
pepper to taste. Spread the butter all over the turkey. Turn breast
side up in the pan and cover the pan with aluminum foil.  Place
turkey in the oven and reduce heat to 425. Roast for 3 hours. Remove
the foil and roast, basting occasionally until the juices run clear
when the meaty part of the theigh is pierced with a sharp skewer,
about 2 more hours. Bake the leftover stuffing in a baking dish at
325 for 30 minutes.  Let turkey stand, covered with foil for 15
minutes before carving.

GRAND MARNIER APRICOT STUFFING

Place the apricots and 1 cup of Grand Marnier in a small saucepan.
Heat to boiling. Remove from the heat and set aside. Simmer the
turkey liver and heart in water to cover in a small saucepan for 5
minutes; set aside and cool.  Melt 1/2 cup of butter in a large
skillet over medium heat. Add the celery and onion and saute for 10
minutes. Transfer to a large mixing bowl. Cook the pork sausage in
the same skillet, crumbling with a fork, until it is no longer pink.
Remove and add to the celery mixture.  Add the stuffing mix, aprocots
with liquid, and almonds. Finely dice the turkey liver and heart and
add to the stuffing mixture, stir to combine.

Heat the remaining 1/2 cup butter and the stock in a small saucepan
just until the butter melts. Pour over the stuffing mixture and add
the remaining 1/2 cup Grand Marnier. Stir well to moisten the
stuffing. Season with thyme, salt and pepper to taste.

Enough for a 21-24 pound turkey.

(source: Silver Palate Goodtimes Cookbook)

