Title: ROBB'S RED POTATO & GREEN BEAN SALAD
Categories: Salads, Vegetables
Yield: 8 Servings
2 1/2 lb New potatoes, scrubbed
1 1/2 lb Green beans
1/3 c  Herb vinegar
1/3 c  Extra-virgin olive oil
1/3 c  Vegetable oil
2 tb Granulated sugar
1 ts Paprika
1/2 ts Salt
1    Clove garlic
1 ts Coleman's dry mustard
2 ts Caraway seeds, crushed
3/4 ts Celery seeds
1 c  Walnut pieces
1    Medium sweet red pepper
6    Scallions (half green tops)
1    Bunch parsley
1/2 ts Black pepper, or to taste
To prepare dressing, in blender container combine herb vinegar, olive
oil, vegetable oil, granulated sugar, paprika, salt, garlic, dry
mustard, caraway seeds, and celery seeds. Blend until well
emulsified.
Cut green beans on the diagonal in 1-1/2-inch pieces and cook in a
large pot of boiling water until just tender-crisp. Refresh in cold
water, drain and pat dry.
Cook the potatoes in a large pot of boiling water until just tender
when pierced with aknife, 12-15 minutes. Drain and pat dry. Allow the
potatoes to cool slightly. Slice potatoes into 1/4-inch thick slices,
drizzling a small amount of dressing over potato slices and tossing
to coat as you slice.
Add green beans to potato slices and toss to combine, drizzling a
small amount of dressing to coat.
Dice red pepper, chop scallions and parsley, and add with remaining
ingredients and toss to combine, drizzling just enough additional
dressing to evenly coat salad. Grind black pepper over salad to taste
and lightly toss again. Taste and adjust seasonings.
Salad is best if eaten the same day it is made - slightly warm or at
room temperature - do not refrigerate! Leftovers should be
refrigerated, but may be warmed slightly in the microwave before
serving.
NOTE: I use Soleillou Radiant Wine Herb Vinegar which contains white
wine vinegar, cloves, thyme, rosemary, fennel, bay laurel leaves,
basil, and marjoram. This is available from Balducci's, New York
City.
A reasonable substitute could probably be made by steeping these
herbs in white wine vinegar for a few weeks before using.

