Title: ROCK SHRIMP TAMALES WITH FOUR-PEPPER CREAM
Categories: Shrimp, Southwest
Yield: 4 Servings
For The Tamales--
8 lg Dried Corn Husks*see
Notes
Masa Dough--
1/4 c  Unsalted Butter softened
2 c  Masa Harina
1 ts Baking Powder
1 ts Salt
1 tb Minced Chipotle In Adobo
1/4 c  Canola Oil
1 c  Hot Chicken Or Shellfish
Stock
For The Filling--
2 sl Bacon -- finely diced
2 tb Red Bell Pepper -- minced
2 tb Green Bell Pepper- minced
2 tb Yellow Bell Pepper --
Minced
2 tb Red Onion -- minced
1 ts Garlic -- minced
1/2 c  Chicken Or Shellfish Stock
1/2 ts Adobo Sauce From Canned
Chipotles Above
8 oz Coarsely Chopped Rock Shrimp
More if needed
1 tb Chopped Fresh Cilantro
Four Pepper Cream (Recipe
Follows)
Garnish--
Cilantro Sprigs
Diced Bell Peppers
TO MAKE THE TAMALES: In the bowl of an electric mixer fitted with the
paddle attachment, or by hand with a wooden spoon, beat the butter
until light and fluffy. Add the masa harina, baking powder, salt and
chipotle. Mix until well-blended. With the motor running, slowly add
the canola oil and the hot stock. Continue mixing until you hear a
slapping sound, approximately 2 minutes. The dough will be soft. Set
aside. You can do this all by hand with a wooden spatula,but it will
take some energy! TO MAKE THE FILLING: In a large saute pan over
medium heat, saute the bacon until translucent. Add the peppers,
onion and garlic and saute slowly until tender, approximately 3
minutes. Add the stock, shrimp and adobo sauce. Cook, stirring, until
the shrimp are barely cooked through, approximately 1 minute. Remove
from the heat, strain, set the solids aside, and return the liquid to
pan. Over high heat, reduce the liquid until syrupy and add to the
shrimp mixture. Add the cilantro and stir to combine. TO ASSEMBLE THE
DISH: Remove the husks from the water, drain, and pat dry. Spread out
the corn husks on a dry work surface. Pinch off an egg-size piece of
the masa

mixture. Pat it into the corn husk, flattening the dough to
approximately 4 inches square and 1/4-inch thick, leaving a border of
husk at least 1/2-inch wide around the perimeter of the dough. Spread
a tablespoon of the filling lengthwise in the center of the dough.
Fold the husk together until the edges overlap and the masa and its
filling are completely enclosed by the husk. Gently flatten the top
and bottom of the husk and fold the ends up to enclose. Repeat with
the other 7 husks. Place folded side down in a steamer over boiling
water and steam, covered, for 45 minutes. TO SERVE: Open the husks to
reveal the tamales and place on a warm plate. Spoon the Four-Pepper
Cream over the tamales and garnish with cilantro sprigs and diced
peppers. Serve immediately. Yield: 4 servings FOUR-PEPPER CREAM 1
tablespoon olive oil 3/4 cup minced shallots 2 teaspoons seeded and
chopped serrano chiles 1 cup dry white wine 2 1/2 cups rich shrimp or
chicken stock 3/4 cup heavy cream 2 tablespoons finely diced red bell
pepper 2 tablespoons finely diced yellow bell pepper 2 tablespoons
finely diced green bell pepper Kosher salt and freshly ground white
pepper Drops of fresh lemon or lime juice In a medium saute pan, heat
the olive oil and saute the shallots and serranos until soft but not
brown. Add the wine and stock and bring to a boil. Continue to boil
until the mixture is reduced by half. Add the cream and continue to
boil until the mixture is reduced to a light sauce consistency. Stir
in the diced bell peppers and season to taste with salt, pepper and
drops of lemon juice. Serve warm. (Four-Pepper Cream can be made up
to a day ahead, stored in the refrigerator, and reheated gently in a
water bath.) Copyright, 1996, TV FOOD NETWORK, G.P., All Rights
Reserved

: COOKING RIGHT SHOW #CR9709
Recipe By

