Title: ROMAN PIE
Categories: Meats, Pasta
Yield: 8 Servings
MMMMM--------------------FOR THE MEAT LAYERS-------------------------
1 lb Cooked turkey or chicken *
1/4 lb Cooked ham
1/4 lb Cooked tongue
50 g  Canned anchovy fillets
3/4 lb Mushrooms
1 lg Bunch parsley
Lemon juice
A few black olives
Canned consomme **
MMMMM--------------------FOR THE PASTA LAYERS-------------------------
6 oz Macaroni
12 1/2 fl Milk
1/2 pt Single cream
1 oz Butter
1 oz Plain flour
4 oz Cheddar cheese
1 oz Parmesan cheese
*Note: Weight given for turkey or chicken is skinned, boned weight.
Goose, pheasant and other birds can be used instead.

**Well-flavoured, clear stock and a little gelatine powder may be
substituted for canned consomme.

Make a smooth, rich sauce with the butter, flour, milk and cream. Let
it simmer for about 4 minutes.  Then, away from the heat, stir in the
grated Cheddar and Parmesan, a seasoning of nutmeg and some salt and
pepper - but go carefully with the salt in view of the cheeses and
salted meats used in this dish.  Let the sauce cool while you cook
the macaroni in plenty of salted water until al dente.  Plunge the
pasta in cold water to arrest cooking, drain well and stir it into
the sauce.

Slice the mushrooms thickly and saute them well in a non-stick pan
with no fat.  Season them with about 1 1/2 teaspoon lemon juice,
plenty of pepper and a little salt and allow to become cold. Then cut
the turkey meat into pieces about the width and half the length of
your little finger, and mix the poultry and mushrooms together.

Cut the ham, tongue and drained anchovies into strips about the same
length as the poultry but considerably less wide. Mix the anchovies,
ham and tongue with a good quantity of fairly coarsely chopped
parsley.

Sprinkle about one third to half of the ham mixture over the base of a
shallow dish of 4 to 4-1/2 pint capacity. Cover with half the macaroni
mixture, then all the turkey mixture, then the rest of the macaroni.
Spread each layer evenly and press down into the dish with a potato
masher before adding the next layer. Cover and chill for 30 minutes.

Arrange the remaining ham mixture on top and scatter the olives to
make a decorative display of the pink, green and black ingredients.
Press down lightly then pour on enough barely melted consomme or cool
jellied stock to cover.

Cover the dish and refrigerate for a few hours until set. Better
still, refrigerate Roman pie overnight to allow flavours to blend and
mature, but be sure to bring it back to room temperature at least two
hours before serving.

Source: Philippa Davenport in "Country Living" (British), December
1988. Typed for you by Karen Mintzias

