Title: ROMERTOPF'S BEGGAR'S CHICKEN
Categories: Chinese, Poultry
Yield: 4 Servings
Stephen Ceideburg
4 lb Frying chicken, cut into
-sections
Arrowroot
MARINADE:
1 ts Sesame oil
1 tb Dry sherry
1/4 ts Chinese Five Spices (see
-note below)
1/4 ts White pepper
1    Clove pressed garlic
1/4 c  Soy sauce
1 ts Grated fresh ginger root
For teriyaki lovers, here's the finest recipe inspired by the
excellent little pamphlet Cook in Clay published by the makers of the
Romertopf pot. We've served this dish, with variations, to as many as
a dozen guests with never anything less than ecstatic results. The
chicken comes out tender and full of flavor, especially after being
marinated in this incredible sauce. You can add all sorts of Chinese
or Japanese seasonings, but be sure they stay on the bland side.
Caution: Don't add any salt-there's enough in any good soy sauce. (We
prefer the rich, heavy soy sauce bottled in Hong Kong in a brown
stone jug by Ko Sang Yick.)

In a non-metal bowl, combine the ingredients for the marinade, mix
well, and marinate the pieces of chicken for at least half a day,
turning frequently.

When ready to cook, presoak pot, top and bottom, in water for 15
minutes.

Add the chicken and the marinade to the pot.

Place covered pot in a cold oven.

Set temperature to 450 degrees F.

Cook 45 minutes.

Ten minutes before end of cooking time, remove the pot and pour off
the liquid into a saucepan.

Return the pot to the oven, uncovered, for the final
10    minutes of cooking.

Meanwhile, bring the liquid in saucepan to a boil and thicken with
arrowroot.

Serve with rice, liberally drenched with the sauce.

For an optional Chinese touch, sprinkle the chicken with almonds and
sesame seeds.

Note: Chinese Five Spices are a combination, in powder form, usually
found in Chinese markets. If not available, use star anise, ground to
a powder with a mortar and pestle.

From "Romertopf, The Clay-Pot Cookbook", Georgia McLeod Sales and
Grover Sales, Atheneum, NY, 1979. ISBN 0-689-70547-6

