Title: RON SANTO'S LINGUINE WITH CLAM SAUCE
Categories: Pasta
Yield: 4 Servings
1    Cube clam base
1 c  Ocean clams (25.5 oz)
1 tb Olive oil
1    Bunch green onion, chopped
1/2 c  Diced domestic mushrooms
1/8 c  Fresh basil, chopped
2 tb Fresh minced garlic
1    Stick butter, melted
1/2 ts Cayenne pepper
2 md Tomatoes, seeded and diced
1/2 c  White wine
Before he became a Hall of Fame contender as one of the best
third-basemen in history, Ron Santo toiled as a groundkeeper, a
batboy, and an usher for Seattle's PAcific Coast League team. But
sweet success came along soon enough, says Santo. "Vada Pinson, who
was a great ballplayer for the Reds, used to come by, and I'd shine
his shoes. He went to the majors in 1958, and by 1960, I was in the
big leagues, so I went from shining his shoes to playing against him
in just two years."

Santo put away his shoeshine kit when the Chicago Cubs drafted him in
1960, and he played for them through 1973. Over his 13 years with the
club, he won five Rawlings Gold Glove awards and racked up 337 home
runs, the third-highest total in Cubs history.

Thes days Santo spends his ballpark time in the broadcast booth
rather than the dugout, as the Cubs play-by-play analyst. "It's a lot
easier up where I am now than it is down on the field."

When Santo isn't on the air, he's in the kitchen of his restaurant and
sports bar, Ron Santo's American Rotisserie, which specializes in
chicken, ribs, steaks, and pasta. "I eat there every night with my
wife, and the waiters and waitresses will come over and say, 'They'd
like to see you at that table over there for an autograph.' I
designed a baseball card for the restaurant with a picture of me in a
suit on the back and a picture of me in a baseball uniform on the
front. It gives all my stats. My customers eat it up."

That is, when they're not devouring his Linguine with Clam Sauce.

In a bowl, dissolve clam base in reserved juice from canned clams. In
large saucepan, heat olive oil until sizzling. Saute onions,
mushrooms, basil and garlic. Add butter and cayenne. Stir in
tomatoes, wine and clams in base mixture, and cook for 3-4 minutes.
Cook linguine until it is AL DENTE; drain well. Top with sauce.

