Title: ROSEMARY-LIME VINEGAR/AND VARIATIONS
Categories: Mixes
Yield: 2 Servings
4 c  White-wine vinegar
(plus more, if
Needed)
3    Cloves garlic
6 lg Sprigs fresh rosemary
1    Lime -- thinly sliced
Flavored vinegars look sensational in antique bottles...or maybe even
just old ones that you may find at a country fair. You can experiment
with all sorts of different herbs, berries, or types of vinegars and
oils, using this recipe & the one that follows as a base. Just be
sure to store the vinegar and oil, tightly closed, for at least 2
weeks before tasting it and making your final decision.  Whether or
not to strain your gift before presenting it is up to you and depends
on how enticing the flavorings look; prolonged immersion suits some
better than others. Give this vinegar alone or with a bottle of the
best olive oil you can find. If you want to mail it, pack it,
cushioned with straw, into the kind of heavy mailing tube that
artists use for sending out rolled-up posters. Two hints before you
start: Use a stainless-steel saucepan when heating the vinegar to
avoid producing a metallic taste. Take care not to cut the surface of
the garlic cloves because contact with the garlic juice will cause
Bring the vinegar slowly to a
the vinegar to become cloudy.
boil in a saucepan over moderate heat. Peel the garlic cloves, but do
not cut them. Place a clove in each of two 1-pint, sterilized
bottles. Carefully strain the hot vinegar into the bottles and add 3
rosemary sprigs to each. Divide the slices between the bottles and
seal each bottle with its cork or cap. Heat more vinegar and add to
the bottle, if needed, to fill completely. Store in a cool dry place
for at least 2 weeks before using. For best results, use within 6
months. Variations: To make Hot Chile-Pepper Vinegar, substitute 2
(or more) jalapeno chiles for the rosemary and bring to a boil in the
vinegar. Add them to the bottles along with the garlic cloves. Seal,
label, and store as before. (If you leave the chiles in the vinegar,
the recipient will know that you intend Hot to be taken seriously.)
To make Lemon-Garlic Vinegar, substitute one sliced lemon for the
lime, and delete the rosemary. Source:  An Edible Christmas Cookbook

:
Recipe By

