Title: FRY PAN PIZZA DOUGH
Categories: None
Yield: 4 Bases
MMMMM---------------------------DOUGH--------------------------------
3/4 c  Warm water
1 tb Oil
1 tb Sugar
ds Salt
1    Packet of dry active yeast
Flour
Here goes; this recipe will make about 4 or 5 10 inch pizzas, or you
can use the extra dough for bread sticks.

Put aobut 1 1/2 cups of flour in a dish and add the oil, sugar and
salt. Mix these together, then add the yeast and water. Keep adding
flour until the dough is stiff enough to knead, the dump it out on a
floured surface and begin to work in more flour. When the dough is
very stiff and rubbery, oil the surface and place it in a covered
container in a 140 degree oven for 1 hour, or until roughtly doubled.
When the dough has risen, remove it and pound it down, then seperate
the dough for the pizza and bread sticks. Put the pizza dough back in
to rise and make breadsticks with the rest, and put those in to rise
as well. Let the dough rise for aobut 45 min. more, then remove the
pizza dough and roll it out and place it in the pan (1/8 to 1/4 inch
thick, up to you). An oiled cast iron frying pan is what I use, and
it works quite well. Turn the oven up to 375 degrees and let the
pizza dough rise while the oven warms up (leave the bread sticks in
there). While in the final rize, add sauce, cheese and toppings. Bake
for 20-25 minutes, and take out when the cheese is browned. The bread
sticks should be done at the same time.  Slide the pizza out of the
pan and then cut it.

Traditional tomato sauce: Pureed tomatoes (canned or fresh, best with
fresh, skinned and seeded) Onion powder Garlic powder (McCormick's is
best) Oregano, etc. (favorite Italian seasonings)

Puree the tomatoes and let them stand for a few minutes, then drain
off the juice.  Take the pulp and spread a thin layer on the pizza
dough (a bit of mozzerela underneath will make it stick better).
Leave about 3/4 inch of space around the edge.  Sprinkle the
seasonings over the sauce, and on the crust sticking out at the edge.
Add favorite toppings and cheeses, making sure that no cheese touches
the edge! Any cheese touching iron will cause the pizza to stick.

White pizza:  an interesting, tomatoeless pizza.  Very good!

Instead of using tomato sauce, use ricotta cheese. Add a bit of water
to make it smooth enough to spread easily. Spread normally, and then
sprikle on the usual seasonings, toppings and cheese. Bakes in the
same amount of time.

msa

