Title: FUDGY BONBONS & OPTIONS
Categories: Cookies
Yield: 60 Cookies
1 ea 12oz pkg chocolate chips
-semi-sweet
1/4 c  Butter or margarine
1 cn Condensed milk, sweetened
2 c  Unbleached or all purpose
-flour
1/2 c  Nuts, finely chopped (opt)
1 ts Vanilla
60 ea Candy kisses, chocolate
-SEE OPTIONS
2 oz White baking bar or vanilla
-flavored candy coating
1 ts Shortening or oil
OPTIONS FOR CHOCOLATE KISSES: 1. If you like caramel centers, take
3oz of Kraft
Caramels and add 1TB of water, heat until melted.
Pour onto a plate so the mix will make a thin, 1/4"
layer, place in FREEZER until it is hard.  Then,
when dough is ready, remove the hardened caramel
from the freezer, cut small strips 1/2" wide of the
caramel.  Cut these into 1/2" bits, place in center
of cookie dough and roll -- make certain dough
completely surrounds the caramel.  It will run out
if not completely enclosed.  Still good eatin',
just not as pretty. 3 oz will do two recipes
probably. 2. Get bite size Reese Peanut Butter Cups, cut into 2
pieces, and do same as above. 3. In place of (2), use crunchy
peanut butter, using
the BACK of a 1/4 t to touch into the peanut butter
and get a dab to place on the cookie dough before
rolling.  Back of spoon allows peanut butter to be
wiped onto the dough. Using inside spoon did not
work for me.  Hard to get out. Try it yourself.
Peanut butter has stronger flavor than the Reeses
Cups, so only a dab is needed. 4. I like mint chocolate. Found some
Mintohs at
Kroger.  These are for candy making, baking, etc.,
Light mint flavor.  Size of a quarter.  Place one
of these in the dough in place of other options.  I
tried the chocolate covered peppermint candy that
is foil wrapped.  It was TOO strong a mint.
Overpowering.  But that is my taste. Heat oven to 350. In medium
sauacepan, combine chocolate chips & butter, cooking & stirring over
very low heat until chips are melted & smooth. Add sweetened
condensed milk & mix well.

Lightly spoon flour into measuring cup & level off. Combine flour &
nuts ~if using- in medium mixing bowl, add chocolate mixture and
vanilla and mix well.  Shape 1 scant TB of dough around each candy
kiss, covering completely.  Place on ungreased cookie sheet, 1"
apart. Bake 6 to 8 minutes.  SEE NOTE 2 jgb
FOOD BB TOPIC: FOOD FORUM TIME: 04/16 7:42 PM

ALL FROM: JERRY BREWSTER (MHMH32A) SUBJECT: RT-FUDGY BONS &
TO:
OPTS

The remainder of the recipe directions was to remove the cookies, even
though then appear to be soft and glisten. They will hrden. When
cool, heat vanilla flavored candy coating and the oil, drizzle over
cookies. This is the Pillsbury cookoff winner, and I posted it
before. The options I have played with. They work. Good fun to all.
Jerry G. Brewster, MPHS, TN 04/16/06:36 pm
FOOD BB TOPIC: COOKIE EXCHANGE TIME: 04/20 11:34 PM

D LYERSON-BRELAND    (TFST62C) FROM: JO MERRILL (ECGJ65B)
TO:
SUBJECT: SUGAR COOKIES-FAST

Dee I have 7 recipes to post for you. The first 3 are sugar cookies.
Important to remember is to follow instructions exactly and if the
recipe calls for chilling the dough be sure to do that.
*  Exported from  MasterCook II  *

Mother's Sugar Cookies/Cut out type

: Jo Merrill Serving Size
Recipe By
: 120  Preparation Time :0:00 Categories
: Cookies

Ingredient -- Preparation Method
Amount  Measure

