Title: F„RSRULADER (STUFFED VEAL ROULADES)
Categories: Swedish, Meats, Main dish
Yield: 16 Roulades
2 c  Cold water
1 md Potato; peeled, quartered
2 tb Butter
1/4 c  Onions; finely chopped
1 lb Veal; finely ground
3 tb Bread crumbs; fine dry
1/3 c  Cream; heavy
2 tb Water
1 1/2 ts Salt
1/2 ts White pepper
1    Egg
2 tb Parsley; finely chopped
1 tb Cornstarch
1/2 c  Leeks; white only, sliced
-paper thin
8 tb Butter (1 stick)
1/4 c  Cream; heavy
In a 1 to 1 1/2 quart saucepan, bring the cold water to a boil. Add
the quartered potato and boil 10 to 15 minutes or until tender. Drain
and mash with a fork. In a small frying pan, melt 2 tb butter. When
the foam subsides, add the onions and cook 7 or 8 minutes stirring
frequently until they are soft and transparent but not brown. Scrape
the onions into a large mixing bowl and add the mashed potato, ground
veal, bread crumbs, cream, water, salt, pepper, egg, parsley and
cornstarch. Mix well then refrigerate for at least 1 hour. Brush a
large wooden pastry board (or another hard, smooth surface) with
water and pat or roll out the mixture into a 16"x16" square about
1/8" thick. Your hands or the rolling pin should be moistened with
water to prevent the meat mixture from sticking. With a pastry wheel
or small, sharp knife, cut the rectangle of meat into 16 squares of
4"x4" each. Put a thin layer of leek slices (about 1 1/2 teaspoons)
on each square. With the aid of a knife, or better still, an icing
spatula, roll up each square, jelly-roll fashion. Ideally they should
now be chilled but may, if necessary, be cooked immediately. Heat 2
tb. butter in a heavy skillet. When the foam subsides, add the
roulades, 4 at a time, turning them gently with a spatula so that
they brown on all sides. When they are a rich brown, set them aside
on a heated platter in a 200øF oven. Repeat the process, adding 2 tb
fresh butter for every 4 roulades. Pour 1/4 cup heavy cream into the
empty pan and boil it rapidly for 3 to 5 minutes, until it thickens,
meanwhile scraping up the browned bits in the pan with a rubber
spatula or wooden spoon. Taste for seasoning adding salt as needed
and pour over roulades. If you must, cover the platter with foil and
keep warm in a 200øF oven for not more than 15 minutes.

