Title: GARLIC BREAD FETTUNTA
Categories: Appetizers
4 sl bread
country-style -- sliced 1/4"
thick
Yield: 4 Servings
:
:
1    garlic clove -- unpeeled
1/2 c  extra virgin olive oil -- or
more
salt and pepper
:
:

Fettunta is a contraction of the word fetta, "slice," and unta,
"oily,"

1. Toast, grill, or broil the bread slices until lightly colored on
both sides.

2. Rub the garlic clove over the bread's surface. The garlic will
grate itself on the hardened toast and the peel will disintegrate.
Garlic lovers should press hard.

3. Drizzle at least 2 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil, barely
enough for any self respecting Tuscan, over each slice of toasted
bread, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and serve immediately.

Description and Detail from Feniger: This is, without a doubt, my
favorite recipe in the world. It's fast, simple, calls for no special
equipment or skills, has no cholesterol, and is open to seasonal
adaptation with the addition of numerous toppings. Diners always seem
to be impressed. Bread is lightly toasted, rubbed with garlic, dipped
in newly pressed, bright green, peppery-flavored olive oil, sprinkled
with salt and pepper. It's meatless, milkless,effortless, pleasing to
even the most jaded palates, and involves none of the fuss usually
associated with garlic bread Scouts can skewer their bread on a stick
and toast over the campfire. Unsalted rustic Tuscan bread, white or
whole wheat, sliced about 3/4 inch thick is the bread of choice for
olive oil millers, who created this dish. Do-it-yourself bread bakers
should refer to Carol Field's "The Italian Baker" (Harper Collins,
1986). But almost any basic, water-based, butterless, country-style
bread will do. A friend favors rye. Day old bread is okay. And 1
slice per person may only be a beginning. First-rate virgin olive oil
is a must, otherwise you'll end up with greasy bread instead of
fettunta. Newly pressed oil, called olio nuovo, easily recognizable
by its bright green color, cloudy with chlorophyll, found from late
November through January in Italy, yields spectacular results but any
:
quality extra virgin olive oil will do. Recipe By
Milliken-Feniger: KCRW's Good Food (05 Oct 1996)

Date: Sat, 19 Oct 1996 13:03:06
~0700 (

