Title: GARLIC PICKLES
Categories: Relishes
Yield: 60 Servings
4    Heads of Cauliflower
4    Heads of Green Cabbage
1 bn Fresh Carrots
1    Head of Garlic
1 bn Celery
4 lb Kirby Cucumbers
15 tb Salt
10 l  Hot water
2 tb Mustard seeds
2 tb Peppercorns
4    Bay leaves
These are the approximate ingredients you would need to fill up a 10
liter barrel. Peel garlic and cut each clove in half. Peel carrots.
Wash vegetables. Cut cabbage, carrots and celery into quarters. Break
apart cauliflower. Leave cucumbers or tomatoes whole. With cabbage,
discard outer leaves and cut off the hard part at the base. With the
cauliflower, leave alittle it of the leaves on for taste but discard
the hard part of the stem. Mix vegetables in layers so all of one
kind is not next to the other. Put in the vegetables, garlic, then
vegetables again, and so on. Add 1 heaping tablespoon of salt for
each liter of hot water that you will add to the barrel.  After the
barrel is full with the vegetables and water, add 5 more tablespoons
of salt on top, along with 2 tablespoons of mustard seeds, 2
tablespoons peppercorns and 4 bay leaves. You can use a cheescloth
bag to put the mustard seeds and peppercorns in or just throw them in
loosely. Use clean wood sticks or empty glass bottles on top to hold
down all vegetables under the water, if necessary. It's important for
them to be covered at all times.  Mix the barrel (if it's large, it
can be rolled on the floor!) when done and shake it again each day
for the next few days. It's important to make sure it's being mixed
well. It should be ready in about 10 days to eat.  Kirby cucumbers
may take a few days longer. Taste the liquid after the first couple
of days, as you may need to add an additional tablespoon of salt or
two.  It's important not to add too much salt in the beginning but to
keep the balance constant and to add alittle more as the salt is
absorbed.  In our case, we added 3 tablespoons of salt on the sixth
day, but this could change according to what you put in and the size
of your barrel.

