Title: GARLIC LOVER'S LENTIL SOUP
Categories: Digest, Jan., Pressure co
Yield: 6 Servings
1 tb Broth or water
1/4 c  Coarsely chopped garlic
2 c  Thinly sliced leeks (white
And light green parts)
Or coarsely chopped onions
2 lg Carrots, halved lengthwise
And cut into 1/4*inch
Slices
2 lg Celery ribs, diced
1/2 lb Fresh mushrooms, halved (if
Small) or quartered
2 c  Dried lentils, picked over
And rinsed
6 c  Boiling water
1 1/4 ts Dried rosemary leaves
1 ts Dried thyme or marjoram
Leaves
2 lg Bay leaves
1/4 ts Crushed red pepper flakes
2 lg Red bell peppers, roasted,
Seeded, and diced
1/2    To 3/4 cup minced fresh
Parsley
2    To 3 teaspoons balsamic
Vinegar
Salt and freshly ground
Pepper to taste
Heat broth in pressure cooker over medium-high heat. Add garlic,
stirring continually, adding more water if necessary to keep from
burning. After a minute or two, add leeks and continue cooking, still
stirring for another minute.  Add the carrots, celery, mushrooms,
lentils, boiling water, rosemary, thyme, bay leaves, and red pepper
flakes.

Lock lid in place.  Over high heat, bring to a high pressure. Lower
the heat just enough to maintain high pressure and cook for 7
minutes. Allow the pressure to come down naturally or use a
quick-release method. Remove the lid, tilting it away from you to
allow any excess steam to escape. If the lentils are not quite
tender, either return to high pressure for a few more minutes or
replace (but do not lock) the lid and simmer until the lentils are
done.

Remove the bay leaves.  Stir in the roasted red bell peppers,
parsley, just enough vinegar to bring up the flavors, and salt and
pepper to taste.

Serves 6-8

Posted by artemis@netcom.com (Michelle Dick) to the Fatfree Digest
[Volume 14 Issue 21] Jan. 21, 1995.

Individual recipes copyrighted by originator. FATFREE Recipe
collections copyrighted by Michelle Dick 1995. Formatted by Sue Smith,
SueSmith9@aol.com using MMCONV. Archived through kindness of Karen
Mintzias, km@salata.com.

:A recipe adapted from Lorna Sass's _Vegetarian Cooking Under
Pressure_: 1.80รก

