Title: GARY'S BLACK BEAN SOUP
Categories: Soups/stews
Yield: 8 Servings
1 lb Black beans
3/4 lb Smoked boneless ham
-hocks (or less)
8 c  Water
Salt, to taste
2 c  Beef or chicken broth
-(I prefer beef)
1 1/2 c  Green bell peppers,
-finely chopped, seeded
-and cored
1 1/2 c  Onions, finely chopped
1 1/2 ts Olive oil
1 tb Garlic, finely minced
1 ts Ground cumin
1 c  Tomatoes, peeled,
-seeded and diced.
1/4 c  Red wine vinegar
2 tb Coriander, finely
-chopped [optional]
Sherry, dry, to taste
Put the beans, ham hocks, water and salt in a kettle and bring to a
boil. Cover and let simmer 2 to 2 1/2 hours, or until beans are
thoroughly tender. Remove the ham hocks and set aside.

Drain the beans and reserve both them and the cooking liquid. There
should be about 6 cups of beans and about 4 cups of liquid. Add
enough broth to the liquid to make about 6 cups.

Put the beans in the container of a food processor or blender, and
blend as thoroughly as possible.  Add a little of the liquid and
continue blending. Combine the pureed beans and remaining liquid in a
large bowl.

Heat the oil in a heavy kettle and add the peppers, onions, garlic and
cumin. Cook, stirring, until the onions are wilted. Add the tomatoes
and the vinegar. Let simmer about 15 minutes. Meanwhile cut up ham
hocks.

Add the pureed bean mixture to the cooked tomato mixture. Add the
chopped ham and coriander. Serve in hot soup bowls with about a
tablespoon or so of sherry (if desired) in each serving.

NOTES:

*  Soup with Black Beans and Ham Hocks -- Here is a hearty soup for
those cold winter evenings. This is a rather messy soup to make, but
well worth the effort. Yield: Serves 8-12.

*  I skip the sherry and add a spoon of sour cream or yogurt. If your
palate can handle them, try adding pickled jalapeno peppers.

: Difficulty:  easy.
: Time:  10 minutes preparation, 3 hours cooking.
: Precision:  no need to measure.

: Gary Scott
: Tektronix, Beaverton OR
: garys@tekcbi.UUCP

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

