--PAREVE--
Title: GEFILTE FISH
Categories: Passover, Fish, Appetizers
Yield: 12 Servings
2 lb Ea. Whitefish & pike
1/2 lb Summer carp
4 ea Med. Shallots (slice 3)
6 ea Lge. shallots (slice 4)
2 ea Celery ribs, sliced
4 ea Med. carrots, peel, slice
1 ea Med. parsnip, peel, slice
3 lg Sprigs parsley
1/4 ts Thyme & dill
4 ea 2" slices lemon zest
1 c  Kosher dry white wine
7 c  Water (more or less)
1/2 ts Nutmeg, ginger, white pepper
1/8 ts Cayenne pepper
Florets from 2 lge. parsley>
Sprigs.
4 lg Eggs (1 yolk & 4 whites)
1/4 c  Cold fresh seltzer
3 tb Matzo meal (or more)
Have fishmonger skin, bone and fillet fish, reserving bones and
heads for broth in which fish will be simmered. For best results, the
total net weight should be abt. 2 1/4 lb. Rinse bones and heads. Put
into wide enamel-lined heavy Dutch oven.  Add 3 sliced onions, 4
sliced shallots, celery, carrots, parsnip, parsley, herbs and lemon
zest. Add wine and water. Bring to a boil. Reduce heat to simmering.
Cover and cool for 1 hr. Using fine sieve, strain into lge. bowl.
Pick out some carrot slices and set aside. Then press out juices from
solids. Discard solids. Pour broth back into pot and set aside.

Cut remaining onion into 1 " pcs. and shallots in half. Place in
food processor. Rinse fish, and check for any remaining bones. Cut
fish in 2" pcs. & add to processor with spices, parsley and 1/2 the
salt.
Process 30 sec. Add 1 whole egg and 1 white. Let stand while whipping
remaining whites until firm peaks form. Set aside.

With processor running, pour seltzer into machine. Process 15 sec.
Scrape mixture into lge. bowl. Sprinkle with 3 tb. matzo meal and
blend. Fold in beaten egg whites. Cover and chill in freezer for 15
min.

Bring broth to boil.  Add remaining 1/2 ts. salt. Using moistened
hands and moistened spoon, shape chilled mixture into 12 ovals,
lowering them into the hot broth as they're formed. (If mixture
doesn't hold together sufficiently after chilling, add more matzo
meal.) Reduce heat to steady slo-boil.  Cover and cook 45 min.,
spooning ovals with broth after they've cooked for 10 min.  Each pc.
will puff up and rise to top. Partially uncover and cool in pot for
30 min. Add reserved carrots to broth. Cover and regrigerate
overnight; or carefully transfer each pc. to container(s), pouring
stock over all.  Tightly cover and refrigerate. Broth will thicken
when chilled.  If you prefer jelled broth, add 1 pkg. of pareve
unflavored gelatine to boiling stock and dissolve granules before
refrigerating. Frances Prince's New Jewish Cuisine

