Title: Baked Fish Cake
Categories: Diabetic, Fish, Vegetable
Yield: 4 friends
4 tb Milk;
Grated peel of 1/2 lemon;
2 tb Parsly; fresh chopped
1 ts Anchovy extract(optional)
3 tb All-purpose flour;
2 tb Oil
1 1/2 lb Potatoes; peeled
1 lb White fish fillet;
Salt; (to taste)
Grd white or black pepper;
-Freshly
2 tb Butter;
Cut the potatoes into chunks and place then in a saucepan with enough
water to cover, adding a little salt if liked.  Heat until just about
to boil. Meanwhile, lay the fish on a plate or dish to cover the
saucepan and cover it with a second plate, lid or foil.  Put the fish
on the pan when the water is boiling, then reduce the heat so water
does not froth over. Cook the potatoes until tender-10-15 minutes if
the chucks are faily small. Set the aside, without uncovering it.
Drain and mash the potatoes, beating the well until smooth.  Mix in
the butter, milk, lemon peel, parsley and anchovy extract, is used
Preheat oven to 400 degrees. Grease a quicke dish or baking pan. Pour
any cooking juices from the fish into the potato mixture.  Flake the
flash off the skin, discarded any bones, and at it to the potatoes.
Mix well, adding seasoning to taste. Use a large spoon to place the
fish mixture in a mound on the prepared dish or pan but do not
flatten it until it is all in mounded up. Flatten the top of the
mixture sightly, then sprinkle it with a little of the flour.  Use a
spatula and slice to flatten the mixture into a little neat circle,
about 7" across. Pat the sides with the knife and the top with slice
to that the mixture is even and neatly shaped, keep sprinkling with
the flour to coat the outside evenly. Trickle the oil over the fish
cake and bake it for about 30 minutes, until well browned.  Cut into
wedges to serve.

Food Exchanges were not listed, (Good thing I found the book on sale
and cheap to boot)

Source: The Diabetic Cookbook by Bridget Jones.

Brought to you and yours via Nancy O'brion and her Meal-Master (this
is far to much work for me, Fish not my favorite foods)

