Title: Basic Arepa Dough (Columbian/venezuelan)
Categories: Bread, So. america
Yield: 1 batch
3 c  ;Boiling water
Softened butter
2 c  Pre-cooked masa flour
-- (yellow or white)
1 ts Salt
Arepas are simple corn cakes first made by the Indians of Colombia and
Venezuela. They were an important part of their diet, like corn
tortillas were to the Aztecs.

Over the centuries, the poor people of Colombia and Venezuela
continued to use them as inexpensive, easy-to-prepare source of
nourishment. Today, these humble corn cakes are a comfort food for
the rich and poor alike, a heart-warming tribute to simplicity,
tradition, versatility, and good taste.

Originally, arepas were made from dried corn kernels that were soaked
overnight in water and lime to remove the skins, then cooked, drained
and ground into masa (dough). Thanks to modern technology, a
pre-cooked harina de masa is now available at most Latin American
markets. An instant masa can be made by simply mixing this corn flour
(either white or yellow) with a little salt and enough boiling water
to make a stiff dough.

The dough is then shaped into flat round cakes of varying thicknesses,
depending on the intended use, and cooked on a griddle or deep-fried.
In parts of Colombia, arepas are cooked atop a flagstone slab that is
first heated and then brushed with fat. Another Colombian specialty
~- arepas de chocolo -- is made from fresh corn and cooked on top of
banana leaves.

Colombian arepas are generally thinner than their Venezuelan
counterparts. The standard Venezuelan arepa looks somewhat like a
flat bread roll, crispy on the outside and doughy on the inside. They
can be split open and buttered, or spread with cream cheese or fresh
goat cheese. Made this way, they are served for breakfast or as an
accompaniment for grilled fowl, fish, meat stews, or sausages.

In Venezuela, the doughy inside is sometimes scooped out and the
shell is filled with savory mixtures of ground or chopped pork, beef,
ham, chicken, seafood, vegetables, or beans. They are excellent first
courses. Venezuelan mandocas, for example, are cheese arepas shaped
into rings and deep-fried. Another specialty is bollos pelones --
balls of arepa dough stuffed with seasoned ground meat, either fried
or poached in water, then served with tomato sauce.

A popular snack in Colombia consists of arepas served with fresh
cheese and fried chorizo (sausage). Colombians also make tasty soups
using fresh masa or leftover arepas. Arepitas dulces make great
desserts.

The versatile arepa indeed proves that unpretentious food can be not
only satisfying but also delicious. In a large mixing bowl, combine
flour and salt. Add water; stir with a wooden spoon to make a soft
dough. Let stand for 5 minutes, then knead for 3 minutes. Dough is
ready to be shaped into standard arepas, or to be mixed and kneaded
with other ingredients such as cheese, chicharrones (pork rind), etc.

To shape arepas: The standard Venezuelan arepa is 3" in diameter and
3/4" thick. Colombian arepas are larger and thinner, about 4" in
diameter and 1/4" thick. To make arepas, oil or wet hands lightly and
shape dough into balls. Place between 2 pieces of wax paper or
plastic wrap and flatten into a circle; shape the edges to form a
smooth disc.

To cook arepas: Heat a griddle or cast iron skillet over medium heat;
grease lightly and cook arepas on both sides, turning a couple of
times until a crust is formed. Colombian arepas are ready to be
served at this point, spread with butter. Venezuelan arepas have to
be baked in a preheated 350 F. oven for 15 minutes. To check for
doneness, tap the arepa lightly -- if a hollow sound is heard, it's
ready. Split open, add butter and serve hot.

Arepas freeze well if frozen while still warm. Freeze in layers
separated by plastic wrap. Reheat frozen arepas wrapped in aluminum
foil in a preheated 350 F. oven for 10 minutes or until heated
through.

From the Denver Post - Vista Magazine. From: garhow@hpubmaa.esr.HP.COM
(Garry Howard) in rec.food.recipes. Formatted by Cathy Harned.
Submitted By CATHY HARNED   On   10-16-94

