Title: Black Forest Cake
Categories: Cake/cookie, Dessert, Low-cal/fat
Yield: 12 servings
2 tb ;water
1 ts Unflavored gelatin
4 ts Light brown sugar
2 ts Cornstarch
1/2 ts Lemon rind; grated
1/3 c  Heavy cream
4 ts Confectioners' sugar
1/3 c  Evaporated skim milk; ice
;cold
1 ts Lemon juice
6 tb Dutch-process cocoa powder;
;unsifted
6 tb Cake flour; sifted
1 c  PLUS 2 tb sugar
1/8 ts Salt
8 lg Egg whites
1 ts Cream of tartar
1 1/2 ts Vanilla extract
1 cn (1 lb.) water-packed pitted
-sour cherries; drained,
;with 1/2 c. juice reserved
Preheat the oven to 375F. Line the bottoms of 2 8-inch round layer
cake pans with wax paper. On a sheet of wax paper, sift together the
cocoa powder, flour, 1 cup of the sugar, and the salt. Set aside.

In the large bowl of an electric mixer, beat the egg whites at
moderate speed until foamy. Add the cream of tartar and remaining 2
tb. sugar, one at a time, and beat until the whites hold soft peaks.
Increase the speed to moderately high, then add 1 ts. of the vanilla
extract and beat 1 minute longer. The whites should be soft and firm,
not stiff and dry.

With a rubber spatula, gently fold the cocoa mixture into the egg
whites, about 1/3 at a time, then carefully pour the batter into the
2 cake pans, dividing it between them. Bake the layers for 20 to 25
minutes or until they begin to pull away from the sides of the pans
and a toothpick inserted in the centers comes out clean. Remove and
cool on a wire rack upside down in the pans. When the cake layers are
room temperature, loosen their sides with a metal spatula; turn them
out on a work surface and remove the wax paper.

To prepare the filling, place the cherries in a bowl, saving a few for
final decoration, and set aside. Place the water in a small saucepan
and sprinkle the gelatin on top.  Let stand for 5 minutes to soften;
then set over very low heat and cook, stirring, until the gelatin
dissolves, about 5 minutes. Set aside.

In another small saucepan, combine the brown sugar, cornstarch, and
lemon rind. Slowly whisk in the reserved juice until smooth. Bring
the mixture to a boil over moderate heat, stirring constantly; let
boil for 1 minute. Remove from heat, add the cherries, and mix well.
Set aside.

In the small bowl of the electric mixer, beat the cream at high speed
until it holds soft peaks. Add the confectioners' sugar and the
remaining vanilla extract and beat until the cream holds stiff peaks.

In another small bowl, combine the evaporated skim milk and lemon
juice and beat with clean beaters at high speed until very stiff;
then beat in the cooled gelatin mixture and fold in the whipped cream.

To assemble, place 1 cake layer on a cake plate. Top with the cherry
cream mixture, spreading it to the edge. Gently spread 1 cup of the
whipped cream mixture over the cherry mixture, then place the second
cake layer on top. Using a large pastry bag fitted with a star tip,
pipe rosettes of the remaining whipped cream around the edge and in
the center of the cake. Decorate with reserved cherries. Refrigerate
until serving time.

One serving: Calories: 156; total fat: 3g; saturated fat: 2g;
cholesterol: 9mg; sodium: 71mg.
Date: 09-28-94
From: Nancy Vaine

