Title: Braised Fennel with Rosemary
Categories: Side dish, Vegetable
Yield: 8 servings
8    Sprigs fresh rosemary
12    Brine-cured black olives
Salt and fresh ground pepper
Lemon slices; for garnish
12    Garlic cloves; peeled
4 tb Extra-virgin olive oil
4 lg Or 8 small fennel bulbs*
-- about 4 pounds
1/3 c  ;Water
*Fennel is frequently called anise in Louisiana, a reference to its
licorice taste, but it bears no resemblance to the actual anise plant,
which is grown primarily for its seeds.

Bring 2 to 3 cups of water to a boil in a small pot and blanch the
garlic cloves for 3 to 4 minutes; drain.  Heat 1 tb. of the oil in a
small skillet over medium heat and brown the garlic until golden all
over.

Cut the leaf stalks and the hard butt ends from the fennel bulbs,
leaving just the bulbous stem, a piece 2 1/2 to 3 1/2 inches long.
Halve the small bulbs lengthwise; quarter the larger bulbs.

In a large skillet, heat the remaining oil and the water over medium
heat. Add the fennel in a single layer and the rosemary.  (If you
have more fennel than your skillet can accommodate in a single layer,
save half the oil and rosemary to cook with half the fennel in a
second batch.) Cover and cook the fennel, turning once or twice,
until water cooks away and the fennel is tender and browning, about
15 minutes. If the fennel begins to brown before it feels tender, add
a little more water; if it becomes tender before browning, raise the
heat or take off the lid to speed browning.

When the fennel is tender and browned, add the garlic and olives to
warm through.  Season to taste with salt and pepper.  Garnish with
lemon slices.

The authors write: "When Franklin Adams was 3 1/2 years old, his
pediatrician saw some of his drawings and predicted he would become an
artist.  He was right.  Franklin designs buildings and does
imaginative renovations and graphic design projects, but sculpture is
his first love. 'Each time I start a piece, it's an invitation to put
together a lot of good things and get something brand new,' he says.
'I like to take very simple, commonplace materials and make magic out
of them.'

"Franklin has the same approach to food.  'I go to the store and see
what's there.  Tasso (smoked pork loin) or some crayfish, for
example, will inspire me.'  There's also a definite Mediterranean
influence in the Adams kitchen, where rosemary, pine nuts, and garlic
are favorite seasonings. 'I like heady flavors, hefty peppery tastes,
and strong cheeses,' he admits. Franklin found dried herbs quite
satisfactory until he discovered fresh herbs on a trip in the
Pyrenees with a friend. 'We stopped for a picnic and the 'grass' was
thyme,' he recalls with delight. Now New Orleans markets provide the
fresh herbs Franklin insists transform the simplest foods into the
robust dishes he loves."

From Franklin Adams/New Orleans, LA in "Cooking with Herbs" by Emelie
Tolley and Chris Mead.  New York: Clarkson N. Potter, Inc., 1989. Pg.
75. Posted by Cathy Harned.
Submitted By CATHY HARNED   On   10-04-94

