Title: Brown Rice Saute with Parsley and Sage
Categories: Rice, Side dish, Vegetable, Vegetarian
Yield: 8 servings
Salt and pepper; to taste
1 lg Bunch fresh parsley; chopped
1 ts Dried thyme or
1 tb Chopped fresh thyme
2 ts Dried sage or
2 tb Chopped fresh sage
1 tb Soy sauce (opt'l.)
1 1/2 c  Brown rice
-- Short or long-grain
-- preferably organic
3 tb Olive oil
2    Onions; diced
4    Carrots; shredded
1 tb Sesame seeds
Wash the rice well under cold water, then place in a saucepan with
water to cover by 1/4".  Bring to a boil over high heat, then turn
the heat down low and cover tightly.  Simmer until all water is
absorbed, approximately 1 hour.

In a frying pan or wok, heat the oil and saute the onions until golden
brown or even a bit burnt, about 8 minutes.  Add the cooked rice to
the onions.  Stir in the carrots, sesame seeds, salt and pepper to
taste, and the herbs.  Stir-fry lightly for about 5 minutes.  Mix in
the soy sauce just before serving, if desired.

The authors write: "Herbs have always been a part of Caroline Collis's
life.  As a child she remembers gargling with red sage to tame a
throat infection.  When her own children had chest colds, she eased
their coughs with a jelly made from lotus-root flowers, hot water,
and honey, an old Chinese herbal medicine she learned from friends.

"Caroline's husband, Michael, a hair stylist, discovered another
dimension of these useful plants.  In the early seventies he began
studying herb books, looking for substitutes for the harsh products
women used to keep their highly stylized coifs in place.  Soon he and
Caroline were stirring up buckets of herbal shampoo in the back of
their Molton Brown Salon. Customers were so delighted with the
shampoo they asked to buy it for home use, and Michael obligingly
packaged the shampoo in old medicine bottles. Finding himself
besieged with requests for conditioners, lotions, and other herbal
products, he realized he had started a business.

"In order to expand and still retain complete control over the
quality of their products, the Collises bought an old farm, Mott's
Hall, in the countryside north of London.  Now they have room to
raise herbs for their products and for a small factory in the former
barn. In addition to the fields of herbs, a traditional herb garden
with culinary herbs was planted just outside the dining room.  'I'd
always admired other people's gardens and wanted one of my own,' says
Caroline. 'I'm drawn to the sense of order.'"

"The Collises and their children spend most weekends at the farm, and
Caroline often finds herself cooking for weekend guests.  'I try to
cook things that are quick and easy to prepare,' she says.  'I resent
spending time in the kitchen unless it's for a very special dinner
party.' The cooking at Mott's Hall reflects the Collises' mutual
interest in healthful eating, and adapting Chinese cooking methods to
her wholesome vegetable and grain dishes helps Caroline put meals
together quickly. Herbs, generally in interesting combinations, are
always an important part of the seasoning. 'I use lots of ginger,
garlic, parsley, chives, and tarragon,' she says. 'When I'm in the
country, I just go into the garden and pick what I think will be
nice.'"

From Caroline Collis of Mott's Hall/England in "Cooking with Herbs" by
Emelie Tolley and Chris Mead.  New York: Clarkson N. Potter, Inc.,
1989. Pg. 198.  Posted by Cathy Harned.
Submitted By CATHY HARNED   On   10-15-94

