Title: Bud's Black Bean Soup
Categories: Soup/stew, Beans
Yield: 4 servings
1 ts Thyme
1/3 ts Cayenne pepper
2    Beef Bullion Cubes
3 c  Water
1/2 c  Butter or margarine
1/2 c  Flour
1 tb Worchestershire sauce
Louisiana Hot Sauce to taste
1/2 l  Bacon-hickory smoked, thin
-sliced
2 c  Chopped Onion
2 c  Chopped Celery
1 cn Ready-to-Serve Black Beans
-(15 oz.)
1/2    Green pepper -chopped
2 ts Mexican Oregano
Chop bacon into 1 inch lenghts, and fry in 9 or 10" cast iron skillet
until near crisp.  Drain on paper towel, reserving 2 or 2 Tablespoons
of the bacon grease in skillet.

Over medium heat cook onions, celery and green pepper until tender.

While tay are cooking you can go ahead and dumpt the canned black
beans (bean liquer and all) into a 1 or 1-1/2 qt. pot.  Add bacon, 3
Cups water, bullion, and spices.  When vegetables are done and them.
Bring to boil and reduce to simmer.

In that same cast iron skillet, melt butter or margarine and add
flour.

>>> Yes, boys and girls, we are making a roux! <<<

Cook flour butter mixture over low heat stirring frequently.  While
this is going on, the soup in the pot should reduce by about 1/3.  If
you time it right the soup stock will be reduced at about the same
time you have a fairly dark brown roux. (The darker the better, as
far as I am concerned.) This procedure should take around 30 - 45
minutes minutes.

Add foux to stock -- CAREFULLY!

[ Allow roux to cool slightly before adding to soup stock, then add
slowly, like maybe a 1/3 cup at a time, otherwise  when that hot roux
hits the surface of that stock -- unless they are at the exact same
temperature and the moon is in the right phase -- your will get a
bubbling DANGEROUS volcano that will decorate your kitchen and burn
bare arms like hell.]

Stir in until blended well.  Add worchestershire, reduce heat, cover
and cook an additional 5 -10 minutes, stirring occassionaly.

Season with Louisiana Hot Sauce to taste.
Another Bud Cloyd Creation (5/23/94).
Submitted By BUD CLOYD   On   09-29-94

