Title: Candied Sour Cherries
Categories: Fruit, Can/preserv
Yield: 1 batch
3 c  Sugar
1/4 c  Light corn syrup
2 cn Sour cherries* (16 oz. each)
-- packed in water
*If fresh cherries are available, pit them and simmer them until just
tender in water to cover, then proceed with the recipe.

Drain cherries, reserving juice.  Measure 1 1/3 cups of the juice
into a large, shallow pan (a skillet or a saute pan is ideal); if
there isn't enough juice, add water.

Add sugar and corn syrup to the juice; boil the mixture, uncovered,
over medium-high heat until syrup spins a short thread when drops are
poured from a spoon, 4 to 5 minutes.

Add cherries and cook them, uncovered, over medium heat until they
begin to be translucent, shaking the pan often, 20 to 25 minutes. (If
syrup gets quite thick and threatens to caramelize, add a
tablespoonful of water when this happens, and watch the cooking
carefully.) Remove pan from the heat. Pour cherries and syrup into a
bowl and let them stand for several hours or overnight.

Return cherries and syrup to the pan and bring them to a boil over
medium heat; simmer until syrup is thick but not caramelized, 3 to 5
minutes. Remove from the heat.

Lift cherries onto wire racks set over a baking sheet, using a
two-tined fork or (if you're adept) a pair of chopsticks.  Let them
drain until dripping stops, then transfer racks to a clean pan or
pans and dry cherries in an oven set at 200 F., watching them to be
sure they don't become too desiccated; remove and cool them when they
are still slightly tacky, after about 20 to 30 minutes.  When they
have cooled, they should be only slightly sticky.  If they seem damp,
return them to the oven for as long as needed, keeping an eye on
them. Cool the cherries.

Store cherries in a closed plastic bag or container, or a glass jar
with a snug lid.  Store at room temperature, in the refrigerator, or
in a cool cupboard or pantry for up to 6 months; freeze for longer
storage.

Yield: About 1 pound.

Witty writes: "Because they actually taste like what they are, I like
to candy a batch of canned sour cherries when I'm gathering the
ingredients for holiday baking.  Although they are not as shapely or
as improbably red as commercially prepared cherries - they are
unimposing in size and dark in color - they are rich in cherry
flavor, which is just what's needed in, for example, California
Christmas Fruitcake."

From "Fancy Pantry" by Helen Witty.  New York: Workman Publishing
Company, Inc., 1986.  ISBN 0-89480-037-X.  Pg. 307.
Date: 09-24-94
From: Cathy Harned

