Title: Carbonnade of Beef -*-
Categories: French, Meat, Main dish, Beef
Yield: 4 + servings
2 c  Beer, or to taste, preferaby
A dark beer
1 c  Stock (canned is fine)
2 sm Bay leaves
2 t  Finely crumbled mixed dried
Herbs (thyme, savory, and
Marjoram)
Pepper
2 lb Beef shoulder or round, cut
Into 1/4" slices, the edges
Slashed
4 md Onions, halved lengthwise
And thinly sliced
1/3 c  Olive oil
Salt
2 t  Brown sugar
3 T  Flour
-MIKE'S KITCHEN-

The objective of a Carbonnade is to build up carbonized glazes in the
skillet used to brown the meat and onions. The deglazing produces a
rich liquid used to subsequently braise the ingredients in the oven.
The type and amount of beer used will determine the sharpness of this
dish. In any event, the beer will lend a slightly bitter undertone,
which is desirable. But an overly strong beer flavor will overwhelm
the sweetness of the onions. Select the beer accordingly. Any will
work, even flat beer, but a dark beer will give a rich color and
flavor to the dish. Stout or porter is perfect.
Saute the onions in about 3 tablespoons of the oil over low
heat in a large skillet. Stir regularly until softened and lightly
carmelized. If necessary, turn up heat to color the onions. When
done, empty onions into a sieve placed over a bowl, and return the
drained oil to the skillet. Make sure no onion bits remain in the
skillet.
If needed, add more oil to skillet, and brown slices of beef
that have been salted. Do not crowd the beef. If you have to, brown
in two or three shifts. Remove browned pieces to the sieve with the
onions, to drain. Continue pouring the drained fat and oil back into
the skillet.
When all the meat has been browned and removed, turn heat to
low and add the brown sugar and stir to dissolve. Add flour, stirring
for a few more moments. Deglaze with the beer, adding slowly, and
stirring to scrape all the carmelized bits from the skillet. Stir in
the stock. Taste for salt.
Assembly: Layer the meat in a casserole, alternating with the
onions, ending with a layer of meat. With each layer of onions, place
a bay leaf and sprinkle some of the herbs. Finally, pour over all the
deglazing liquid. The meat and onions should be barely immersed. If
more liquid is needed, add more beer, stock, or just water, depending
on your taste.
Bring to a boil on top of the stove. Then, cover tightly and
place in a 325 oven for about three hours, testing for tenderness
after about 2 1/2 hours. Before serving, skim the fat from the
surface. Season with pepper at the table. The resulting dish is a bit
of Heaven!
Serve with steamed potatoes or noodles.

