Title: Chervil Nasturtium Soup
Categories: French, Herbs/spice, Soup/stew
Yield: 8 servings
-- large stems removed
1 lb Potatoes
-- peeled and quartered
1 c  Heavy cream
1 tb Butter
2 qt ;Water
Salt
2 c  Fresh chervil
1 c  Nasturtium leaves
1 c  Watercress leaves
MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
Nasturtium leaves
In a large pot, bring the water to a boil over high heat.  Add salt,
reduce the heat to medium-low, and add the chervil, nasturtium and
watercress leaves, and potatoes.  Simmer gently for 1 hour. Puree the
soup in a food processor or blender in several batches.

Just before serving, stir in the cream and, if the soup has cooled,
reheat gently.  Place the butter in the bottom of a tureen and pour
the hot soup over it.  Garnish with nasturtium leaves, if desired.

The authors write: "Laurence Lafont is a talented designer of linens,
china, and other housewares.  Since 1979, she has also been fashioning
stylish eyeglass frames for her husband, whose family owns one of the
most prominent eyeglass firms in Europe.

"The Lafonts spend weekends in the country, but workdays find them in
their charming house in St. Cloud, on the outskirts of Paris. Running
two households, a family, and working full time means that Laurence
doesn't have much time to cook.  'During the week we eat family food
~ roast meat, a green vegetable, salad, fruit and cheese. But on the
weekends,' she says, 'I really like to make more interesting dishes.'
Since her husband, Philippe, also enjoys cooking, they often share
the chores, especially when they entertain. 'We each have certain
desserts or entrees that are our specialties.'

"Laurence constantly reads cookbooks and magazines for new recipes. 'I
always cook the recipe the way it's written the first time,' she says.
'After that I alter it to make it mine.'  Altering the recipe may
entail substituting or adding herbs.  In the country, herbs grow in
the garden; in St. Cloud, most grow in pots outdoors or on a sunny
windowsill. 'I try to have herbs growing year round so I can go
outside and cut a leaf whenever I need it.'"

From Laurence Lafont/France in "Cooking with Herbs" by Emelie Tolley
and Chris Mead.  New York: Clarkson N. Potter, Inc., 1989.  Pg. 227.
Posted by Cathy Harned.
Submitted By CATHY HARNED   On   10-15-94

