Title: Chicken Havana
Categories: Poultry
Yield: 4 servings
3/4 ts Cumin
1/2 ts Hot pepper sauce
1/2 c  Beans, black, rinsed
1/3 c  Pimento, chopped
2 md Garlic, cloves, thinly
-- sliced
Lettuce, Romaine
1/4 c  Onion, sweet, chopped
Orange, slices
Lime, slices
Parsley
8 ea Thighs, chicken, broiler/
-- fryer, boned, skinned
1 1/2 ts Garlic salt
1/2 ts Pepper
2 tb Oil, cooking
1 tb Cornstarch
1/2 c  Broth, chicken, condensed
1/2 c  Rum, dark
1/4 c  Juice, orange, concentrate
-- thawed
1 1/2 ts Oregano
Sprinkle garlic salt and pepper over the chicken pieces after
rinsing and patting them dry.  Fold in the sides of the thighs to
reshape them to their original form.  Secure the sides with
toothpicks.

In a frying pan, pour the oil and heat to medium-high
temperature. Add chicken and cook, turning, about 8 minutes or until
brown on all sides.

Remove the chicken and set aside.  Discard the drippings from
the pan (or pour them over your dry pet food for a treat for the
"children" in your family....  <smile>)

An a medium bowl, dissolve the cornstarch in a small amount of
the broth.  Stir in the remaining broth, rum, orange juice
concentrate, oregano, cumin, and hot pepper sauce.  Pour the
mixture3into the same fry pan and cook, stirring, until mixture boils.

Return the chicken to the saute pan, turning to coat.  Reduce
heat to low and simmer, turning twice, about 20 minutes or until
chicken is fork tender.

Remove the chicken from the pan, remove wooden toothpicks.  Set
the chicken aside, and keep it warm.

To sauce left in the saute pan, add bean, pimento, and garlic.
Heat mixture to boiling and cook, stirring, for 1 minute.

Place lettuce leaves on a platter.  Arrange the chicken over the
lettuce.  Spoon bean mixture over the chicken, then sprinkle with
onion.

Garnish with orange and lime slices and parsley.

Cook:  Marjorie Fortier, West Redding, Connecticut

Source: "Chicken Cookery"  - 1994 Delmarva Chicken Cooking
Contest
Delmarva Poultry Industries, Inc.
Georgetown, Delaware, 19947-9622
Date: 09-08-94
:
:
From: Rob Stewart

