Title: Chilli Information Page 4
Categories: Chili, Information
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM----------------SOURCE: THE NATIONAL CULINAR---------------------
Written by Linda Beaulieu
+ Joe Mannke of Houston's Rotisserie for Beef and Bird offers Buffalo
Chili, equally great on a cold winter night or a hot summer day. He
uses leftover cooked buffalo from roasts and likes to serve his chili
with beans and brown rice to sop up the zesty flavors. + Anne
Rosenzweig of Arcadia in New York City creates Molasses-Grilled Quail
on Black and White Chili, an extremely tasty dish that features the
sweetness of glazed quail with a spicy chili that is served cold ++
an interesting twist that makes for enjoyable warm - weather eating.
Black turtle beans and white lima beans are used in her chili. +
Larry Forgione, whose An American Place in New York City continues to
help define the state of cooking in this country, suggests Chili-Corn
Sauce with grilled buffalo steaks, venison medallions or boar chops.
His colorful, flavorful sauce is nicely balanced and quite complex,
but can be spiced up by a more assertive use of cayenne and chili
powder. + Norman Van Aken, the enormously talented south-Florida
chef, boldly prepares Honey and Chili-Glazed Grilled Duck Breasts
with Spanish Sherry Wine- Chili Sauce, a time-consuming but well-
worth-the-effort dish. + Robert Del Grande of Houston's Cafe Annie
offers Braised Chicken in Red Chile Sauce, which also can be adapted
for duck.  Fully capturing the essence of Southwest cooking, this
dish should be served over rice. Inspired by all this, Ash himself
created two chili recipes for his book. In Grilled Rabbit with
Peanut-Chili Sauce, the smoky flavors of the rabbit combine perfectly
with the spicy chili sauce.  You find yourself picking up the rabbit
pieces and eating them with your fingers. Messy but delicious! And
then there's Chef Ash's Big Dog Benison Chili Verde: "We originally
created this dish at the famous, or infamous, Big Dog Saloon, a
pseudo-Mexican bar/Western saloon owned by Fetzer Vineyards in the
hills of California's Mendocino County," Ash explains. "The saloon
had burned to the ground in a bad fire a few weeks before and was
rebuilt in about a week and a half by a hard-working crew. This dish
was created as part of the opening ceremonies for the new Big Dog Ash
used wild venison, which had been shot in the hills and hung for
several days to develop flavor. "It's a real winner of a chili, if we
say so ourselves, and, like most chilis and stews, it's better the
second day," Ash said.

Submitted By SHERREE JOHANSSON   On   10-14-94

