Title: Chilli with Rattlesnake
Categories: Chili, Information
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM----------------SOURCE: THE NATIONAL CULINAR---------------------
Chili with an added bite
Written by Linda Beaulieu
There are 32 ingredients in Harry Estep's chili recipe, but only one
has any real venom - when it's alive, that is.  The secret to Estep's
award-winning chili, which sells almost as quickly as it's made?
Rattlesnake.  'It all started about 10 years ago," Estep says. "I was
trying to develop something unique for this casual Western restaurant
that would make people say, 'What?' So I came up with rattlesnake
chili, something that people would talk about." Last month, that talk
came cheap at The Pointe Hilton Resort at Tapatio Cliffs in Phoenix.
Estep's chili is so popular with diners at the Pointe in Clubhouse,
where Estep is executive chef, that the menu listed "Diamond Back"-
chili as a special for the entire month of January selling it at
$2.50 a cup and $3.50 a bowl, which was, according to Estep,
practically giving it away. "If you buy just rattle- snake meat, it's
about $28 a pound," says Estep, CEC, a member of the Chefs
Association of Greater Phoenix.  "On the bone, it's $12 a pound. It's
very expensive.' Estep filets the flesh from the snake's cartila
vertebrae, cuts it into 1/2-inch pieces, and marinates the snake in
salad oil and lime juice overnight to flavor and tenderize it. Then
he seasons the meat and sautes it in a little oil with tequila. "I
could easily go through 20 tons of rattlesnake in a year" if it were
available year-round and if its cost were not so prohibitive, Estep
claims. Estep's "Diamond Back" chili has won eight of the last 10
Senator's Great Chili Cookoffs. Indeed, it was the first non-red-meat
chili to win the time- honored state competition.  Last October,
"Diamond Back" chili was the clear favorite in the Chef's Challenge
segment of the cookoff, at which 2,000 people sampled the chili
creations of chefs from five Phoenix-area resorts. "Anyone can make
chili," Estep says.  "But with chili, as with anything else, there
has to be a uniqueness to it." Estep merely gives his an extra bite.

Submitted By SHERREE JOHANSSON   On   10-14-94

