Title: Chocolate and Peanut Butter Crescents
Categories: Diabetic, Dessert, Cake/cookie
Yield: 24 servings
1 ts Vanilla extract
3/4 c  Granulated sugar
1    Egg
2 c  Sifted all purpose flour
1/3 c  Unsweetened cocoa
1/4 ts Salt
1/4 lb (1 stick) butter
Sift together the flour, cocoa, and salt and set aside.  In the large
bowl of an electric mixer cream the butter.  Beat in the vanilla and
sugar. Add the egg and beat until thoroughly mixed.  On low speed
gradually add the sifted dry ingredients, scraping the bowl with a
rubber spatula and beating until the mixture holds together. Transfer
the dough to a small bowl for ease in handling and set aside at room
temperature. Prepare the filling.

3/4 cup smooth (not chunky) peanut butter 1/2 cup strained or sifted
confectioners sugar.

In a small bowl thoroughly mix the peanut butter and the sugar.

Adjust rack to the center of the oven and preheat to 325 degrees.

To shape the cookies:  On a large piece of wax paper place the cookie
dough in mounds, using a slightly rounded tsp. (no more) of the dough
for each mound-in order not to make them too large it's best to
measure with a measuring spoon.  Do maybe a quarter of the dough at a
time.

Then do the same with the filling, using a level 1/2 measuring
teaspoon for each mound.  Place on other pieces of waxed paper.

Pick up one mound of the dough, roll it between your hands into a
ball, and flatten it between your palms until it is very thin.  Then,
with a small metal spatula or a table knife, lift up and place one
mound of the filling in the center of the flattened dough.  With your
fingers bring the dough around the filling and pinch the edges to
seal. Roll the filled dough between your hands into a cylindrical
shape about 2 inches long with very slightly tapered ends.  Place the
cookie on an unbuttered cookie sheet and as you do, turn the ends
down slightly to form a short fat crescent. Continue shaping the
cookies and placing them 1/2 to 1 inch apart-these do not spread.

Bake for 13 to 15 minutes, or until the cookies are firm to the touch.
Reverse the cookie sheet front to back once to insure even bakinZ of
sugar and roll the cookies in the sugar as they come out of oven.

From: Maida Heatter's Book of Great Cookies Shared By: Pat Stockett

