Title: Cream of Vidalia Onion Soup
Categories: Pork, Soup/stew, Sthrn/livng, Vegetable
Yield: 8 servings
1 tb Fresh thyme or
1 ts Dried thyme
1 c  Heavy cream
1 c  Creme fraiche or sour cream
3 tb Lemon juice
1/2 ts Salt
Freshly ground white pepper
Tabasco
Nutmeg
1/4 lb Sliced bacon
-- cut in 1/2" pieces
1/2 c  Unsalted butter (1 stick)
3 lb Vidalia onions*; peeled
-- thinly sliced
8    Garlic cloves; peeled
2 c  Dry white wine
1 qt Chicken stock
1    Bay leaf
MMMMM-------------------------GARNISHES------------------------------
Chive, scallion or
Society garlic blossoms
1 c  Sliced scallions
-- green and white parts
2 c  Homemade croutons
*If Vidalia onions are not available, substitute any sweet onion.

In a large Dutch oven, cook the bacon slowly until crisp.  Remove
with a slotted spoon, drain on paper towels, and reserve.  Add the
butter, onions and garlic cloves to the bacon renderings; cover and
cook over low heat, stirring often, until onions are translucent and
lightly caramelized, about 10 to 15 minutes.  Add the wine, stock,
bay leaf and thyme; bring to a boil and simmer 30 minutes.

Strain the soup mixture, reserving both the liquid and solids.
Discard the bay leaf and puree the remaining solids in a food
processor or blender. Combine the puree with the reserved broth and
chill.

Just before serving, whisk in the cream and creme fraiche or sour
cream. Season with lemon juice, salt, pepper, Tabasco and nutmeg.
Serve in chilled bowls; garnish with the bacon pieces, scallions,
croutons and chive blossoms.

The authors write: "Fearrington Village, in the Carolina countryside
near Chapel Hill, is the creation of Jenny Fitch and her husband,
R.B, who transformed an old farm into an idyllic country 'village.'
The farmhouse has been remodeled into a charming restaurant known for
its excellent food, and recently an inn has been added so travelers
can enjoy the village, too.

"A multitalented woman, Jenny is a skilled interior designer
responsible for the interiors of the restaurant and the newly opened
inn. She also arranges the masses of exuberant flowers that grace
Fearrington House, sometimes mixing flowers from her garden with
wildflowers from nearby fields.  In addition to all this, Jenny is an
accomplished cook and the author of the _Fearrington House Cookbook_,
a compilation of recipes from the restaurant and favorite flower
arrangements.

"Jenny honed her kitchen talents with eight years of cooking lessons
from renowned chef Judith Olney.  'Judith started my interest in
herbs,' Jenny says, pointing out the herbs growing in the garden and
in pots around Fearrington House.  Fearrington chef Ben Barker uses
herbs to add a creative twist to the indigenous Carolinian foods on
the menu. 'But don't mask the taste of the food with herbs,' he
cautions. 'Use them to complement the flavors.'"

From Chef Ben Barker and owner Jenny Fitch of Fearrington House/NC in
"Cooking with Herbs" by Emelie Tolley and Chris Mead.  New York:
Clarkson N. Potter, Inc., 1989.  Pg. 97.  Posted by Cathy Harned.
Submitted By CATHY HARNED   On   10-15-94

