Title: Crockpot Tips
Categories: Crockpot, Information
Yield: 1 servings
-results.
1    Cookers should be at least
-half full to get best
2. Don't remove the cover for a 'look see' until at least one hour
before the meal is supposed to be ready to eat as heat will escape
when you lift the lid and the cooking time will be lenghtened as much
as 15-20 minutes

3. It is not necessary to pre-brown any meats unless they are fatty.
If neccessary, brown your meat in a separate frying pan and pour off
any excess fat before putting the meat in your pot.

4. You'll probably end up with more liquid than when you started
because almost nothing boils away in a slow cooker, and the foods you
have been cookin will have given up some of there own natural juices.
Sauces in the slow cooker will, therefore, tend to be on the thin
side. To thicken them slightly (for gravies, etc.) laddle out the
sauce into a saucepan, boil it down to reduce the liquid volume, add
a little flour (or your own heavy gravy recipe) and stir to prevent
any burn on.

5. Milk, cream, cheese, pasta, rice and fish usually cook in a short
time. These types of ingredients should not be added to the cooker
until shortly before you are ready to serve. Milk and cream can
curdle during long cooking periods and as far as timing for putting
in cheese, rice, fish and the like this will generally be included in
the recipe.

6. Always try to use fresh vegetables when required. If you are
forced to use frozen vegetable in any recipe,add them durning the
last hour of cooking, otherwise they'll lose there bright colors and
taste overcooked.

7. If your recipe calls for meat and vegetables cooked in a little
liquid place the vegetables on the bottom. Postion doesn't matter all
that much if your making a stew or chowder which calls for a large
amount of liquid.

8. The more liquid ( juice) the faster the cooking process will be.

9. An extra hour on low doesn't mean that your dinner will be burned,
but it may produce slightly mushier vegetables and softer meat.

10. To vary time at different settings, one hour on high is equal to
2-1/2 hours on low.

11. You may find that your family prefers a bit more seasonings with
long cooking- salt, pepper, hot sauces, etc

12. Spices tend to lose there pungency durning long cooking so either
add whole spices and leaf herbs at the start, or if your using ground
condiments add them during the last hour of cooking time.

Source: Women's Home Cooking Slow Pot Cookery 11/79 Article: Hot
Date: 09-19-94
Currants From: Sharon Stevens

