Title: Cuscuz De Galinha (Molded Chicken) 2/2 (See Dirs.)
Categories: So. america, Main dish, Chicken
Yield: 8 servings
;and sliced into rounds 1/8
;inch thick
3    Hard cooked eggs; cut
;crosswise into 1/8 inch
;slices
12    Pimento stuffed olives; cut
;crosswise into 1/8 inch
;slices
1 c  Cooked fresh green peas; or
;1 cup thoroughly defrosted
;frozen peas
3    Seedless oranges; peeled,
;and cut crosswise into 1/8
;inch slices
The CORNMEAL:
4 c  White Cornmeal
1 ts Salt
1 c  Boiling water
1 c  Melted butter; (2 quarter
;pound sticks)
1/4 c  Fresh parsley; finely
;chopped
3    Bottled Tabasco peppers;
;drained, rinsed in cold
;water and finely chopped
EVERYTHING ELSE:
3 md Tomatoes; peeled and sliced
;about 1/8 inch thick
10 oz Can Hearts of Palm; drained
Molded Steamed Chicken, Cornmeal and Vegetables

THE CORNMEAL:
Spread the cornmeal out in a large ungreased skillet and cook it
over moderate heat, stirring it constantly with a wooden spoon for
about 5 minutes.  Watch carefully for any sign of burning and
regulate the heat accordingly.  When the cornmeal is a pale golden
color, stir into it one teaspoon of salt and slowly pour in the cup
of boiling water, stirring constantly.  Cook over low heat, for 2
minutes, until all the moisture is absorbed.  Then remove the skillet
from the heat and mix in the cup of melted butter and the 1/4 cup of
parsley. Stir it little by little into the reserved skillet of
chicken and stock and when they are well combined add the reserved
sausage slices and the chopped tobasco peppers. Test the cornmeal
mixture by rolling a spoonful of it between the palms of your hands.
It should form a loose ball. If the cornmeal is too dry and crumbles,
add a little chicken stock or water to the pan and mix until the
cornmeal particles adhere.  (Be careful not to add too much liquid;
the cornmeal should be moist but not pasty.)

TO ASSEMBLE:
Butter or oil the inside of a 9 to 10 inch fine-holed colander and
center a large slice of tomato on the bottom of it.  Arrange some of
the sliced hearts of palm, hard cooked eggs, tomatoes and olives in
an attractive pattern around it, covering the sides as completely as
possible. Spoon in a third of the meat and cornmeal mixture and, with
a spoon, smooth it and pack it down gently.  Scatter a layer of peas
on top and on it arrange half the reserved hearts of palm, eggs,
tomatoes and olives. spoon another third of the cornmeal mixture,
pack it down lightly, and cover with a large piece of foil.  Tuck the
ends of the foil under the top rim of the colander to hold it
securely in place.

TO COOK and SERVE:
Place the colander in a deep pot, large enough to enclose it
completely. Pour enough water into the pot to come within 1 1/2
inches of the bottom of the colander.  Bring the water to a boil over
high heat, cover the pot tightly, and steam over low heat for 50
minutes, replenishing the water in the pot with boiling water if it
boils away.
To unmold and serve the cuscuz, place a serving plate upside down
over the top of the colander and, grasping both sides firmly, turn
the plate and mold over.  (If the handles of your colander stand up
above the rim, be sure to choose a plate small enough to fit inside
them. If the handles project from the sides of the colander, you can
use any size serving plate you like.)  Rap the plate on a table and
the cuscuz should slide out of the mold.  If any of the vegetable or
egg garnish sticks to the colander, pry the pieces loose with the tip
of a knife and replace them on the mold. If some of the garnish
appears too crushed, substitute fresh slices of egg or vegetable.
Serve the cuscuz hot, accompanied by sliced oranges.

27 of 108  page 2 of 2

Time/Life 'Foods of the World', Recipes: Latin American Cooking

Earl Cravens earl.cravens@mgmtsys.com
Date: 09-16-94
From: Earl Cravens

