Title: Elderflower Fritters with Gooseberry Sauce
Categories: Dessert, Fruit
Yield: 4 servings
MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
1/2 c  Sugar
1/2 lb Fresh gooseberries
MMMMM---------------------------BATTER--------------------------------
1    Egg white
Vegetable oil for frying
8    Heads elderflowers
Confectioners' sugar
1 c  All-purpose flour (heaping)
1 pn Salt
2 tb Vegetable oil
1/2 c  ;Water, approximately
Wash the gooseberries and put them in a saucepan with the sugar. Cover
tightly and cook gently over low-heat until tender, about 10 minutes.
Puree in a blender or food processor or put through a food mill and
set aside.

In a bowl, make the batter by mixing the flour, salt and oil.  Add
water 1 tb. at a time to make a batter with the consistency of thick
cream. In a separate bowl, whip the egg white until stiff but not
dry, then fold it gently into the batter.

Heat 3 to 4 inches of oil in a large skillet over high heat.  Rinse
and dry the elderflowers.  Dip each flower in the batter, shake off
the surplus, and deep-fry for about 4 minutes on each side.  Drain
the fritters on paper towels.

To serve, divide the sauce among 4 plates, arrange 2 fritters on top
of each, and dust with confectioners' sugar.

Note: This dessert can only be enjoyed in early summer, when the
elderberry bushes are in flower.

The authors write: "'I just enjoy cooking so.  It's very satisfying,'
says Joyce Molyneux, chef-owner of the Carved Angel in Dartmouth.
Before opening the Carved Angel, Joyce had spent many years working
with the well-known English culinary expert George Perry Smith at the
Hole in the Wall in Bath, eventually becoming his partner.  She was
also exposed to French cuisine by her French father.  However, Joyce
says she's most interested in very low-key, simple cooking using
local ingredients - the kind of food you can eat twice a day.

"The Carved Angel itself is simple but charming.  Great bowls of
herbs are gathered into country bouquets; bottles of elderflower
vinegar sit on a shelf catching the sunlight that pours through the
windows; and a glorious display of strawberries and tarts is
temptingly arrayed near the entrance. Joyce cooks in an open kitchen
at the back of the small room. 'I like being able to see the
customers,' she says, and she can also catch glimpses of the river
and the bustling dockside through the restaurant's large,
light-filled windows.

"Many of the herbs she uses, including the borage flowers that
decorate desserts, come from a tiny allotment high on a neighboring
hillside overlooking the mouth of the river. Elderflowers, when they
are in season, might be gathered from the hedgerows by the woman who
daily delivers strawberries to the restaurant or, on occasion, picked
by Joyce herself. Even local roses lend their subtle fragrance to
desserts when they are available.  'Actually,' says Joyce, 'I use
whatever seems nice.'"

From Joyce Molyneux of The Carved Angel restaurant in Dartmouth, MA in
"Cooking with Herbs" by Emelie Tolley and Chris Mead.  New York:
Clarkson N. Potter, Inc., 1989.  Pg. 186.  Posted by Cathy Harned.
Submitted By CATHY HARNED   On   10-08-94

