Title: Fontina, Mushroom and Pancetta Lasagna
Categories: Pasta, Italian
Yield: 8 servings
30 oz Ricotta; 2 15-oz. container
1 x  Package directions, drained,
2 ea Eggs
1 T  Olive oil
2 t  Rosemary; fresh, minced or
12 oz Mushrooms; button, sliced
12 ea Lasanga noodles; about
1 lb Fontina cheese; grated
1 ea Tomato; seeded, chopped
1 x  Crumbled
1 x  Filling:
1 pk Spinach; chopped, frozen, c
1/2 c  Parmesan; freshly grated (a
1 x  Mushrooms:
2 oz Pancetta; *, or bacon, chop
1 x  Crumbled
1 x  Assembly:
1 x  Tomato, porcini & pancetta s
3/4 c  Parmesan; freshly grated (a
2 t  Rosemary; fresh, minced or
* Pancetta is Italian unsmoked bacon cured in salt and is available
at most Italian markets and some specialty food stores. FOR FILLING:
Combine first 3 ingredients (30 oz. ricotta, 10 oz. spinach,
prepared as instructed, and 1/2 cup Parmesan) in large bowl. Season
with salt and pepper.  Add eggs and mix well.  (Can be prepared 1 day
ahead. Cover and chill.) always find a deeper dish easier toh (I
always find a deeper dish easier (I always find a deeper dish easier
to with salt and pepper, and cook l juices evaporate, stirring,
frequently, about 12 minutes. ASSEMBLY:
Cook noodles in large pot of boiling salted water until just
tender but still firm to bite, stirring occasionally.  Drain. Rinse
under cold water to cool; drain.
Oil 13x9x2-inch baking dish (I always find a deeper dish easier
to deal with when making lasagna; 3-inches deep is MUCH better).
Spread 1 cup Tomato, Porcini and Pancetta Sauce over bottom of dish.
Arrange 3 to 4 noodles over, trimming to fit as necessary.  Spread
half of ricotta filling over.  Spoon 1 cup sauce over.  Sprinkle with
1 cup Fontina and 1/4 cup Parmesan cheese.  Top with 3 to 4 noodles,
trimming to fit. Spread remaining ricotta filling over noodles. Spoon
1 cup sauce over. Sprinkle with 1 cup Fontina and 1/4 cup Parmesan.
Reserve 1/2 cup sauteed mushrooms for garnish.  Spread remaining
mushrooms over cheese. Arrange remaining noodles over. Spread
remaining sauce over noodles. Sprinkle remaining Fontina and 1/4 cup
Parmesan over. Cover with foil. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead.
Refrigerate lasagna and reserved 1/2 cup mushrooms separately. Let
lasagna stand 2 hours at room temperature before continuing.)
Preheat oven to 350F.  Bake covered lasagna 30 minutes. Uncover
and continue baking until bubbling and cheese melts, about 20 minutes.
Arrange reserved 1 cup mushrooms, tomato and 2 teaspoons rosemary
over. Let stand 10 minutes.  Cut into squares.
Courtesy of Shareware RECIPE CLIPPER 1.1
<<<RECIPE CUT>>>

