Title: Frank Davis' Chicken Noodle Soup
Categories: Soup/stew, Chicken, Pasta
Yield: 1 servings
12 oz Broad egg noodles
2 T  Butter
1 c  Sliced onion rings
1 c  Sliced mushrooms
1 c  Diced carrots
1/4 c  Cream sherry
Salt and pepper to taste
Green onions for garnish
1 lg Whole fryer
1 c  Onions - diced
1/2 c  Celery - diced
1/2 c  Minced parsley
4 ea Cloves minced garlic
1 c  Chopped carrots
3 ea Bay leaves
1 t  Poultry seasoning
4 qt Bottled water
First, take the chicken and wash it thoroughly -- that means both
inside and out!  Remove the giblets, scrub out the internal cavity
under cold running water, and scrape away anything that doesn't look
edible. *But do NOT remove the chicken skin or any of the fat!*  You
need the skin to make a rich stock. Next, take a crock pot (see NOTE
below if you don't have a crock pot) and place the chicken and
giblets into it. Then drop in the cup of diced onions, the 1/2 c. of
diced celery, the 1/2 c. of minced parsley, the four cloves of minced
garlic, the cup of chopped carrots, the three bay leaves, the
teaspoon of poultry seasoning and *TWO QUARTS* of the water. Then,
with a spoon, evenly distribute the seasoning mixture around the
chicken, turn the crock pot to high, and cook for at least six hours
(or better still, *OVERNIGHT*). Remember, the longer you cook, the
richer the base stock and the more tender the chicken. While the
chicken is slow-cooking, it's a good time to prepare your noodles. Go
ahead and boil them according to package directions...*but DO NOT
COOK THEM UNTIL DONE*! Keep in mind that you're going to drop them
into a soup, so you want them al dente (firm), otherwise they'll turn
to pure mush by the time you eat them. Furthermore, you want a small
percent of the starch in the noodles to cook into the soup to thicken
it slightly -- if you cook the noodles all the way, the soup
consistency will be flat and thin.  After the noodles are cooked,
butter them slightly and set them aside. When the chicken is tender,
take a set of tongs or a strainer spoon, remove it from the crock pot
(it may tend to fall apart, but that's okay), and set it on a platter
to cool.  At this point, strain out all the seasoning vegetables from
the stock, place the stock into a metal bowl, and place the bowl into
the refrigerator or freezer until the chicken fat congeals (which
should take about 1 hour). Meanwhile, pick the chicken off the bones
and, with a sharp knife, chop it into bite-sized pieces. Then, in a
heavy 12-inch skillet, melt the butter and saute the sliced onions,
the mushrooms, and the carrots until they're tender. Then drop in the
chopped chicken meat. And *over medium-low heat*, cook it into the
vegetables for about 10 minutes. While the chicken and vegetables are
sauteing, remove the chicken stock from the refrigerator, skim off
all the fat, and place the skimmed stock into a soup pot, along with
the remaining 2 quarts of water. At this point, you should season the
soup stock to taste with salt and pepper. Now drop in the *sauteed*
chicken, mushrooms, onion rings, and diced carrots -- along with the
sherry, the Tabasco, and *as soon as it comes to a roll, reduce the
heat to low* and simmer the soup for about 30 minutes to allow all
the flavors to thoroughly blend. When you're ready to eat, ladle out
heaping helpings of the piping hot soup into bowls, garnish with a
sprinkling of thinly sliced green onions, and serve with crunchy
saltines. I promise you it'll be the best chicken noodle soup you
ever had!!

If you don't have a crock pot, you can use a heavy,
CHEF'S NOTES:
deep stock pot instead.  ust be sure you turn the fire down to a
*SLOW SIMMER* to cook the chicken and make the stock. If you use the
overnight cooking method, cook the chicken in the stock about six
hours, remove the chicken meat from the bones when it's done, put the
bones and the fat back into the stock, and continue to cook the bones
and fat overnight. This gives you the most flavorful chicken soup of
all!!

Recipe from Frank Davis, New Orleans, Louisiana.

Just perfect for those evenings when the first cold fronts of the
year rip through the Crescent City, this chicken noodle soup -- while
possibly lacking the medicinal effect of its Jewish counterpart -- is
rich, bursting with flavor, and succulent enough to serve to the most
discriminating palate.

per serving:
Approx. Cook Time: Cholesterol per
Calories
grams per serving:
serving: Marks:

Submitted By MICHELLE BASS   On   10-02-94

