Title: Fried Sage Sandwiches (Salvia Imbottita)
Categories: Appetizer, Cheese/eggs, Herbs/spice, Italian
Yield: 1 batch
1    To 1 1/2 qts. vegetable oil
Salt; to taste
1    Lemon; cut in wedges
8 sl White bread
4 oz Mozzarella cheese
16 lg Fresh sage leaves
1/2 c  Cold milk  (approximately)
MMMMM---------------------------BATTER--------------------------------
2    Extra-large eggs; separated
1/4 c  Vodka
1 c  ;Cold water
2 c  All-purpose flour (scant)
1/2 ts Salt
1/4 ts Freshly ground pepper
3 tb Olive oil
To make the batter, sift the flour into a large bowl.  Make a well in
the flour, then add, one at a time, the salt, pepper, olive oil, egg
yolks, vodka and water.  As each ingredient is added, mix it
thoroughly with a little of the flour before adding the next.  When
all the ingredients are incorporated, beat with a wooden spoon until
the batter is smooth. Let stand, covered, in a cool place for about 2
hours.

Cut the bread slices in half and the mozzarella into 8 slices.  To
prepare 'sandwiches,' place 1 sage leaf on top of 8 of the bread
half-slices, top each with a slice of mozzarella, another sage leaf,
and finally another half-slice of bread.  Place all the prepared
sandwiches on a large platter, sprinkle a few drops of the cold milk
over them, then turn the sandwiches and sprinkle the other side.
Gently press each sandwich so the layers adhere well to one another.
(The sandwiches can be covered and refrigerated until needed at this
point.)

Heat the oil in a deep-fat fryer or deep skillet to about 375 F.

Just before the oil is ready, beat the egg whites, preferably with a
wire whisk in a copper bowl, until stiff but not dry.  Very gently
fold them into the batter with a wooden spoon until completely
incorporated.

Line a serving dish with paper towels.  Dip each sandwich in the
batter and gently place it in the hot oil.  Cook, turning if
necessary, until lightly golden on both sides (about 1 minute), then
use a strainer-skimmer to transfer them to the prepared dish.  When
all the sandwiches are cooked, sprinkle with salt, remove the paper
towels, and serve with lemon wedges.

Yield: 6 appetizer servings.

From Giuliano Bugialli of Florence, Italy in "Cooking with Herbs" by
Emelie Tolley and Chris Mead.  New York: Clarkson N. Potter, Inc.,
1989. Pg. 257. Posted by Cathy Harned.
Submitted By CATHY HARNED   On   10-15-94

