Title: Holiday Bread
Categories: Bread, Holiday, Moroccan
Yield: 1 batch
4 1/4 c  Unbleached flour
2 ts Salt
1 tb Orange flower water
1 1/2 ts Anise seed
1 1/2 ts Sesame seeds
Cornmeal
1 pk Active dry yeast
1/4 c  Sweet butter
-- melted and cooled
1/2 c  Granulated sugar
1 c  Lukewarm milk or
3/4 c  Lukewarm milk plus
1/4 c  Lukewarm buttermilk
Soften the yeast in 1/4 cup lukewarm water.  Let stand 2 minutes,
then stir and set in a warm place until the yeast is bubbly and
doubles in volume. Meanwhile, mix the flours with the salt in a large
mixing bowl.

Stir the bubbling yeast into the flour. Add the cooled melted butter,
sugar, milk and enough lukewarm water to the flour and salt to make a
stiff dough.  (Since flours differ in their ability to absorb
moisture, no precise amount can be given.)  Knead well: Turn the
dough out onto a lightly floured board and knead hard with closed
fists, adding water if necessary.  To knead, push the dough outward.
(It will take anywhere from 10 to 15 minutes to knead this dough
thoroughly and achieve a smooth, elastic consistency.  If using an
electric beater with a dough hook, knead 7 to 8 minutes at slow
speed.) During the final kneading, add the orange flower water and
spices. After the dough has been thoroughly kneaded, form into one
large ball or two small balls and let stand 5 minutes on the board.

Lightly grease a mixing bowl.  Transfer the dough ball(s) to the
greased bowl and form into a cone shape by grasping the dough with
one hand and rotating it against the sides of the bowl, held by the
other hand. Turn out onto a baking sheet that has been sprinkled with
cornmeal. Flatten the cone with the palm of the hand to form a
flattened disc about 5 inches in diameter with a slightly raised
center. Repeat with the second ball of dough, if making two loaves.
Cover loosely with a damp towel and let rise about 2 hours in a warm
place. (To see if the bread has fully risen, poke your finger gently
into the dough - the bread is ready for baking if the dough does not
spring back.)

Preheat the oven to 400 F.

Using a fork, prick the bread around the sides three or four times and
place on the center shelf of the oven.  Bake 12 minutes, then lower
the heat to 300 F. and bake 30 to 40 minutes more.  When done, the
bread will sound hollow when tapped on the bottom.  Remove and let
cool. Cut in wedges just before serving.

Yield: 1 twelve-inch round loaf or 2 six-inch loaves.

This is a family recipe from Essaouria.

From "Couscous and Other Good Food from Morocco" by Paula Wolfert. New
York: Harper & Row, Publishers, Inc., 1987. ISBN 0-06-091396-7. Pg.
53. Posted by Cathy Harned.
Date: 09-25-94
From: Cathy Harned

