Title: Information: Nuts To Crack #2 of 2
Categories: Information, Nuts/grains
Yield: 1 serving
1    Information
~continued-

To brown the nuts, scatter them on a medium-weight aluminum
jelly-roll pan (or other baking pan with a lip) in an even layer and
bake in a preheated oven. Chopped nuts that are sprinkled over the
top of a cake or directly over mounds of cookie dough should be used
roasted and *not* browned, as the baking process will color the nuts
effectively enough.

Some nuts, such as almonds and hazelnuts, are best skinned before
being added to a recipe. Dump almonds into boiling water for about 30
seconds, then drain them quickly in a nonreactive (stainless steel)
colander. When cool enough to handle, squeeze off the skins between
your thumb and index finger; the nutmeats should pop right out. Now
the nuts can be slivered or chopped, and browned if necessary.

Likewise, drop hazelnuts in boiling water for 30 seconds and drain.
Place the nuts on a clean, terry-cloth towel, cover with another
towel and, using the friction, rub the nuts to dislodge the skins.
Most of the skins can be removed, but know that it is nearly
impossible to take off every last trace, fleck or particle of skin.
Hazelnuts can be purchased skinned, at a premium price.

One baking query I am frequently asked: Can you use lightly salted
nuts in pies, cakes and cookies? I recommend working with unsalted
nuts, preferring to control the amount of salt in a recipe by adding
it directly to the flour, leavening and spices. Yet some nuts, such
as macadamias, are difficult to come by unsalted. That being the
case, place the nuts, in batches, in a large strainer and shake
vigorously over the kitchen sink to remove as much salt as possible.
Some cooks rinse the nuts in a spray of water to rid them of salt,
but that's a good way to spoil their texture. Even if you reheat the
nuts after rinsing, they're still damp-textured.

To prevent most nuts bought in bulk quantities from turning rancid
(excluding those that are vacuum-packed and yet unopened), store them
in airtight containers in the refrigerator for three months, or in
the freezer for six months. Walnuts and pecans, in particular, freeze
well, and pine nuts are best kept refrigerated, not frozen. Roasted
peanuts and cashews seem to stay freshest if placed in a cool pantry
or larder, packaged in airtight glass (not plastic) jars.

Source: Lisa Yockelson, "Nuts to Crack," The Washington Post FOOD
Section, 9/14/94. Typed by Linda Howard.
Date: 09-16-94
From: Linda Howard

