Title: Ingredients Needed for Making Soap
Categories: Homemade, Information
Yield: 1 servings
No Ingredients Found
You can add emolients to soap for their desirable qualities. Such
ingredients include cold cream, lanolin, cocoa butter, or even
powdered oatmeal.  Add emolients in appropriate amounts, so as to not
affect the soapmaking process.  Also, you should add most emolients
after the soap has saponified while it is still cooling, Remember to
always add fragrances as the very last ingredient. You can also add
special ingredients to soap, such as aloe vera, vitamin E, wheat germ
oil, jojoba oil, vitamins A and D, and baking soda. Do not add
cornstarch to soap. Cornstarch can leave a thin film on your skin
that might attract bacteria. Do not put in your soap any ingredients
that might be poisonous. Poisons Can be absorbed through the skin.
Some people like to add buttermilk (in liquid or powder form) to
their homemade soaps; others like to add lemon juice.  Coconut oil is
a favorite ingredient for people who really like suds. Do not add any
ingredient that you are allergic to unless you do not plan to use the
soap yourself. There are only three ingredients essential to making
soap: grease (fat), lye and water.  Other ingredients are added to
give certain desired qualities to the soap. Although soap making is
fairly simple to do, it is critical that you follow instructions
carefully. Lye is a caustic substance. If mishandled, it can burn
skin or even cause blindness. Add lye only to COLD WATER.  Never add
lye to hot water, because it might cause a violent chemical reaction.
Most commercial lye is either a caustic soda, such as sodium
hydroxide, or a mineral salt known as potassium hydroxide. Hard soaps
are made with sodium hydroxide or caustic soda; soft soaps are made
with potassium hydroxide.

Lye is commercially available with instructions for its use on the
can. You also can make your own lye water by soaking a bucket of wood
ashes overnight.  The water that you pour off in the morning will be
lye water. This is the way colonials made their soap. Use only wood
ashes. Do not try to make lye water from coal or coke ashes. Coal
ashes contain chemicals that might irritate or damage the skin. Some
people add salt to help curdle the soap, but it is not necessary. You
can add baking soda, or sodium bicarbonate, to soap. It is an
inexpensive ingredient that contributes desirable qualities,
including deodorizing and cleansing. IMPROVING SOAP Most soaps made
at home will need to be improved before they are suitable for
personal use. To improve soap, you might wish to remelt it and add
more fats and oils.  This process helps to harden soap and also makes
it gentler to the skin.  Naturally, you will need to keep everything
in proportion. Too much oil might create a slushy, ineffective soap.
The purpose of soap is to aid in removing grease and grime, not to
leave a layer of grease on you, although a good soap will have a
slightly oily feel to it. You must add perfumes only after the soap
has started to cool. Add them before the liquid soap is poured into
molds, however, so that the finished bars have a uniform scent.  Of
course, you do not need to add fragrances to your soap if you prefer
them to remain unscented. If you wish to color your soap, you can use
a vegetable coloring. The colors will be more pastel and variable
than those produced by chemical coal-tar dyes. The latter will
produce uniform colors of a brighter hue. If you want bright colors,
you can use food dyes. Be careful to not add so much color that it
comes off as you wash, however. SOURCE: MAKING POTPOURRI, COLOGNES
AND SOAPS by David Webb. There are also candle, shampoo, bubble bath,
deodorant, room freshener, perfume, cologne, aftershave, toilet
water, sachet and potpourri recipes. Shared by: Fran McGee

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   10-07-94

