Title: Introduction To Indian Spices
Categories: Herbs/spice, Information, Indian
Yield: 1 servings
ASAFETIDA (Hing)
A strong aromatic resin, avaiable in powdered forms. Has a pungent
flavour. CARDAMOM (Elaichi) These pods are whitish or light green in
colour. They are the most important ingredient in the preparation of
Garam Masala. They can be used whole or the seeds can be ground. When
used whole, make sure that the skin is broken, allowing the flavour
to escape. CHILLI (Mirchi) Dried chillies can be used whole or
ground. Add very sparingly to curries to enhance the flavour and make
the preparation hot. Go easy on the chilli seeds as they contain the
vital "hot" quality. CINNAMON (Dalchini) Used mainly to accentuate
the rich aroma and to add a full flavour to the preparation.
CORIANDER (Dhaniya) Tiny round aromatic seeds, usually ground to
yield best results. CORIANDER LEAVES These are used for garnishing or
added towards the end of the preparation. They are a very versatile
ingredient and can be used in almost any recipe. CUMIN (Jeera) A
common ingredient in Indian recipes. It can be used whole, ground, or
roasted and then ground. CURRY LEAVES Used a great deal in South
Indian dishes for flavouring. Can be bought fresh or dried. DRIED
MANGO POWDER (Amchoor) Used mainly to bring out the flavour of
particular preparations and the taste is definitely sour. FENNEL
(Sounf) Small oval-shaped pale green seeds which have digestive
properties. Has a close resemblance in taste to Aniseed. Sometimes
used in the preparation of curries. FENUGREEK (Methi) These seeds are
an orange-ish brown in colour and have a slightly bitter aftertaste.
MUSTARD (Rai) Available in two forms:leaves (which can be cooked like
spinach); and tiny reddish-brown seeds which can be used whole or
ground. ONION SEEDS (Kalonji) Round black seeds almost always used
whole. PANCH PHORON This is a combination of five spices in equal
proportions: cumin, kalonji, fennel, fenugreek and mustard. This
combination is used for Daals ++ lentils or vegetable preparations ++
and these spices should be used whole and NOT ground. POPPY SEEDS
(Khus Khus) Tiny round whitish seeds which can be ground to give
preparations more consistency. TUMERIC (Haldi) A member of the ginger
family. In INdia the root is crushed to make Haldi. However, this is
difficult to find elsewhere. The best solution is to buy Tumeric
Powder. This spice is used mainly for colouring and gives a lovely
yellowish colour to the curries. From: Indian Vegetarian Cooking by
Sumana Ray Posted By: Sam Lefkowitz

Submitted By SAM LEFKOWITZ   On   10-11-94

