Title: Judicial Misconduct Chili
Categories: Chili, Meat, Main dish, Tex/mexican
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM------------------------INGREDIENTS-----------------------------
2 T  Oregano, dried
2 t  Black pepper, freshly ground
2 t  Salt
2 T  Maggi Seasoning
16 oz Beef broth
1 ea An Tomato paste (12 oz)
2 T  Masa Harina (or flour)
1 ea Beer
3 T  Or bacon drippings)
2 lb Round steak, cubed
1 lb Sausage, chopped fine
3 ea Walla Walla Sweet Onions
2 cn Green Chiles, chopped
2 ea Red peppers, chopped small
1/4 c  Parsley, minced
2 T  Cumin, ground
MMMMM-------------------------DIRECTIONS------------------------------
2 T  Red peppers, crushed
1 t  MSG (Accent)
1 t  Coriander
1/4 c  Tiger Sauce
2 ea Lrg cans Tomato sauce
1 cn Plum tomatoes, diced
1 lb Black beans
3 lb Ground beef,
1 lb Pork shoulder, cubed
3 ea Purple onions, chopped
6 ea Garlic cloves, minced
2 ea Green peppers, chopped
2 ea Celery ribs, minced
8 T  Chili powder
2 T  Spanish sweet paprika
Wash beans carefully and soak in enough salted water overnight to
cover them by 2 inches of water. Bring to a boil and simmer the next
day until tender (usually 2-3 hours). In the meantime, heat 2 tbs of
oil in a large, heavy skillet. Add garlic, onions, bell peppers, and
celery. Cook until the onions are clear. Remove and reserve. Mix
ground meats. Add 1 tbs oil to skillet and saute meat, cooking on
high heat until thoroughly browned. Drain fat. Remove ground meat and
reserve. Brown cubed meat, drain, and reserve.  Place reserved
vegetables and meats in chili pot along with linguica (or Andouille).
Add all remaining vegetables, spices and liquids (except the beer,
thoroughly between additions.  Carefully bring temperature up to a
simmer. Cook covered on very low heat approximately 5 hours.  Adjust
the consistency after 3 hours. If too thin, uncover and reduce by
turning up heat (carefully) slightly.  If it is still not the desired
consistency, add masa harina (or flour) to thicken, beer to thin, as
needed. Taste and adjust for spices carefully (the flavor will
develop as the chili cooks).  It should be hot enough to be
memorable, but not so hot it takes the skin off the roof of your
mouth. It's better to hotter, add just enough Louisiana hot sauce.
Finally, and only if you absolutely must, add the beans. A chili
purist would jettison them without a second thought. If you can't
bring yourself to do it, but want to serve the chili beanless as God
intended, serve the beans on the side and let people indulge their
own leguminous perversions. Serve topped with chopped Walla Walla
sweets, shredded Monterey Jack cheese, and a pinch of parsley.

Submitted By EARL SHELSBY   On   10-06-94

