Title: Kraut 'n' Frank Lasagna
Categories: Pasta, Main dish, Cheese/eggs, Meat
Yield: 1 servings
1/2 c  Parsley; finely chopped
16 oz Creamed cottage cheese;
-1 container
1    Egg;
1 ts Caraway seed;
6 tb Flour;
1 ts Salt;
1 ds Cayenne pepper;
2 3/4 c  Milk;
Parsley fro garnish;
-additional
4 c  Well-drained sauerkraut;
-about 32 oz
1 lb Frankfurters; thinly sliced
-hot dog, hotdog, wieners,*
1 pk (12oz)American cheese slices
;pasteurized
9    Lasagna noodles; (about 8oz)
8 tb Butter divided
-=OR=-
8 tb Margarine; divided
1/2 c  Onion; finely chopped
*hot dog, hotdog, frank, wieners as keywords or the grandsons can't
find the recipe. If garnish is desired, reserve 1/4 c kraut, 2
frankfurters (sliced) and 2 slices of cheese cut into triangles.

Cook lasagna noodles according to package directions.  Drain well and
set aside.

To prepare kraut 'n' frank filling, melt 2 tb butter in large
skillet. Add onion and chopped parsley.  Saute over medium heat,
stirring constantly, until onion is tender, about 3 minutes. Remove
from heat. Stir in drained kraut, franks, cottage cheese, egg, and
caraway seeds. Mix until ingredients are well combined.  Set aside.

To prepare cheese sauce, melt remaining 6 tb butter in medium
saucepan. Stir in flour, salt and cayenne pepper until smooth. Cook
over medium heat, stirring constantly, until mixture is smooth and
bubbly. Reduce heat to low.  Gradually add milk and cook, stirring
constantly, until mixture thickens and begins to bowl.

Remove from heat.  Add cheese strips to sauce.  Stir until cheese is
melted.

In ungreased 3-quart ovenproof baking dish layer 3 noodles, 1/3 kraut
'n' frank filling and 1/3 cheese sauce.  Repeat 2 times, ending with
cheese sauce.  Cover with foil.

Bake in 375 degree oven for 45 minutes or until center in hot and
bubbly, removing  foil for last 15 minutes of baking time. If garnish
is desired, arrange reserved kraut, frankfurters and cheese triangles
around edges and in center of baking dish when foil is removed. For
easier cutting, let stand 5 minutes after removing from oven.
Decorate with parsley springs

Source: 1001 Recipes From Your Favorite Hometown Newspaper Brought to
you and yours via Nancy O'Brion and her Meal-Master
Submitted By NANCY O'BRION   On   10-08-94

