Title: Lavender Pound Cake
Categories: Cake/cookie, Dessert
Yield: 1 10" cake
2 1/2 c  Sugar
2 tb Sweet sherry
1 tb Dried lavender flowers
2 c  Butter (4 sticks)
3 1/2 c  All-purpose flour
2 ts Baking powder
12 lg Eggs; separated
Preheat oven to 325 F.

In a large bowl, cream the butter until it is light and fluffy.
Combine flour and baking powder and gradually add to the butter,
beating until the mixture is a smooth paste.  In a separate bowl,
combine the egg yolks and sugar; beat until thick and light.  Add the
sherry and lavender, then gradually beat in the butter and flour
mixture.

In a separate bowl with clean beaters, beat egg whites until they form
stiff peaks but are not dry.  Quickly and gently fold the whites into
the flour mixture.  Turn the batter into a well-greased and floured
10" tube or bundt pan.  Bake for 1 hour and 15 minutes or until a
straw inserted in the center comes out clean.

The authors write: "Although Denise Adams has always grown a few
herbs, she didn't have a proper herb garden until she and her husband
moved into their present home.  'It was a natural addition to this
old house,' says Denise. The design for the garden evolved from
studying pictures and visiting as many gardens as possible; the
pattern for the small knot in its center was taken from an old carved
English chest in the living room. 'It helps to create the feeling
that house and garden flow together,' she says.

"'I cook with herbs every day,' notes Denise, 'but it's really pretty
traditional - tossing some herbs on the chicken or into the
vegetables. Lavender is one herb she delights in using.  Since her
husband adores this fragrant plant, the path to the front door is
bordered on both sides by bushy lavenders and seven or eight
different species grow in the garden. The fragrant blossoms flavor
cookies, cakes, jellies, and teas. And she recently added a separate
fragrance garden because there was no room in the original garden for
the old roses she wanted to grow.

"For the past nine years, Denise has been sharing her knowledge of
herbs, giving classes in wreathmaking and other herbal crafts in her
home, and serving herbal luncheons.  With a newly won degree in
landscape horticulture, she has now expanded her business to include
selling plants in the spring and is also researching and growing old
flowers, particularly those indigenous to Ohio.  But whether she's
lecturing at Ohio State or at home in her garden, Denise inspires her
students with her knowledge, enthusiasm, and a sampling of the herbal
specialties from her kitchen."

From Denise Adams of Ohio in "Cooking with Herbs" by Emelie Tolley and
Chris Mead.  New York: Clarkson N. Potter, Inc., 1989.  Pg. 133.
Posted by Cathy Harned.
Submitted By CATHY HARNED   On   10-04-94

