Title: Leanza Cornett's Classic Cornbread
Categories: Bread
Yield: 8 servings
1 1/4 c  Buttermilk
2 tb Vegetable oil
Bread-and-butter pickles
2 c  Self-rising cornmeal
1 c  Self-rising flour
1/4 c  Sugar
1    Egg, beaten
Fresh from her tour of duty as Miss America 1993, ENTERTAINMENT
TONIGHT reporter Leanza Cornett is happy to trade her tiara for a
chef's toque. I cook all the time now," says Cornett. "It's a major
joy for me, especially because I spent a whole year on the road
eating out and not having my own kitchen." The Virginia-born beauty's
specialty is Southern-style cuisine. "I know it's not the best thing
for you," she says, "but every now and then I regress into Southern
cooking. It's the kind of food I grew up eating - grits, fried okra,
and this recipe for cornbread, which is not like anything toy'll find
in a restaurant."

As Miss America, Cornett had as little time to spare for moview as
she did for cooking. Now she's making up for lost time and has seen
most of the films nominated for major Academy Awards. On Monday night
she'll be rooting for "Schindler's List" and Jonathan Demme's AIDS
drama "Philadelphia." "I have personal reasons for wanting to see
'Philadelphia' win an award," says Cornett, an AIDS activist. "I
loved the story, I loved the way Tom Hanks played it. One of my best
friends is living with AIDS. When I walked into that movie theater
and saw that it was filled not just with gay couples and homosexual
men, but with straight people, I thought, 'These are the people who
need to hear what Demme is trying to say.'"

In the category of her best assignment for ET, Cornett nominates
Mister Rogers. "I've interviewed everyone from Michael Bolton to
Sawuille O'Neal to Diana Ross," she says, "But Mister Rogers is my
favorite. I never missed his show when I was little, and walking onto
his set was like being 6 again. He probably the most peaceful, honest
man I've ever met."

Preheat oven to 425'F. Combine sornmeal, flour, sugar, egg, and
buttermilk in a large bowl and mix to consistency of pancake batter.
Heat oil in 10" skillet or 9" square pan until sizzling; pour into
batter. Bake 20-25 minutes or until an inserted toothpick comes out
clean. Serve with bread-and-butter pickles on the side.
Submitted By MICHAEL ORCHEKOWSKI   On   10-10-94

