Title: Leek Quiche and Yabby Quiche
Categories: Vegetable, Pie/tart, Snack, Down under
Yield: 8 servings
-Wine and Cookbook 1985
-Source:  Australian Vogue
pastry: 2 1/2 cups flour 250 g hard butter pinch of salt 3
tablespoons iced water yabby filling: 2 tablespoons chopped shallots
40 g butter 125 g cooked and shelled yabbies, sliced good pinch of
salt freshly ground pepper 2 tablespoons vermouth 3 eggs beaten 160
ml cream 1 tablespoon tomato paste salt and pepper to taste grated
Gruyere cheese leek filling: 750 g finely sliced leeks 60 g butter 1
tablespoon vegetable oil 1 tablespoon flour 2 eggs plus 1 yolk 160 ml
cream salt and pepper pinch of nutmeg 60 g grated gruyere cheese.

To make pastry: put flour, butter and salt in food processor and run
machine with an on/ off action until mixture is like breadcrumbs. Add
water all at once with motor running and process until dough forms a
mass. Form into a disc, wrap in plastic and refrigerate for 1 hour.

Roll out pastry on a floured board and line two 21 cm quiche tins.
Prick bottom of the pastry with a fork to keep it from rising and put
a piece of greaseproof paper in each pastry case.  Fill with beans or
rice and cook in the middle of a pre-heated 200'C oven for 8 to 10
minutes until pastry is starting to colour and just beginning to
shrink from sides of tins. Remove paper and beans or rice and prick
bottom with a fork. Return pastry to oven for 2 or 3 more minutes.

To make yabby filling: cook shallots in the butter for 2 or 3 minutes
until tender.  Add sliced yabbies, salt and pepper and vermouth and
cook for a second or two.  Cool slightly.  Beat eggs with cream,
tomato paste and seasoning to blend.  Add yabby mixture and taste for
salt and pepper. Pour into partly cooked pastry shell. Sprinkle with
cheese and cook on one shelf above the centre in a pre-heated 190'C
oven for 25 to 30 minutes or until filling is brown and has set. Cool
on a cake cooler.

To make leek filling: cook leeks in a frying pan with butter and oil
until tender.  Sprinkle with flour, mix well and cook for 2 or 3
minutes. Cool slightly.  Beat eggs with cream, salt, pepper and
nutmeg until blended. Mix in the leeks and half of the cheese. Test
for salt and pepper. Sprinkle on rest of the cheese.  Bake on one
shelf above the centre of a pre-heated 190'C oven for 25 to 30
minutes or until filling is brown and has set. Carolyn McKittrick.
Bon-Appetit, Exec.Chef. Magnus Johansson From: Sherree Johansson
Date: 09-24-94
:

