Title: Manzo in Umido
Categories: Italian, Beef
Yield: 6 servings
BATTUTO==
2    Slices lean salt pork
1 md Onion
1 md Carrot
1    Celery stalk, with leaves
4    Sprigs parsley
1/4    Garlic clove
4 lb Eye of round
4 T  Olive oil
2 t  Salt (to taste)
Freshly ground black pepper
-(to taste)
1/2 c  Dry white wine
4 c  Plum tomatoes
Though the eye of round is a fairly solid piece of meat, it's best to
tie it as you would a sausage, because in the long, slow cooking
process it becomes so tender it's inclined to fall apart a bit. After
it's tied, put it with the olive oil in a stewpot over medium heat,
and brown it slowly and thoroughly on all sides.  When the meat is a
rich, dark brown, remove it to a warm platter in a warm place. Make a
battuto by chopping the lean salt pork to bits, adding the onion,
carrot, celery, parsley and garlic, and continuing to chop until the
whole pile is well minced. Put the battuto in the stewpot, and cook
it gently until golden in color and limp. Put the beat back in the
pot, and keep on browning it for another 5 minutes or so. Add the
salt and 3 or 4 grinds of pepper, and turn the meat over. Add the
wine, and when it has evaporated, add the tomatoes cut into chunks
or, if you wish, mashed through a sieve or food mill.  If the liquids
don't cover the meat, add enough warm water or stock to do so.  Bring
to a boil, lower the heat, and cover the pot.  Simmer very gently for
2 to 3 hours, or until the meat is tender, and the sauce has
thickened. Throughout the simmering, stir the pot occasionally, and
turn the meat over to make sure it doesn't get stuck to the bottom of
the pot. Remove the meat to a hot platter in a warm place. Strain the
sauce through a sieve, and spoon off any excess fat that rises to the
top as it cools. Reheat the sauce, slice the meat and pour about half
the sauce over it, and serve. The other half of the sauce can be
passed around for those who wish more or used with a first course of
pasta or gnocchi.  From The Romagnolis' Table by Margaret & G. Franco
Romagnoli. Submitted By TERRI WOLTMON   On   10-01-94

