Title: Milk and Honey Soap
Categories: Homemade, Information
Yield: 24 servings
MMMMM----------------STEP 1: HEAT THE FOLLOWING T---------------------
12 oz Tallow (rendered beef fat)
2 T  Scented oil (no alcohol)
24 oz Coconut oil
Step 2: Heat the following to 100 deg F: 6 3/4 oz lye 20 oz milk
(goat - plain water can be used) Step 3: 1 T honey Add the lye to the
milk and allow to cool to 100 deg F. Melt the oils and fats to 115.
Combine the ingredients by pouring the lye-milk into the fat solution
while slowly stirring. The soap should "trace" (be ready to pour) in
about 5 minutes. Stir in the honey with an electric mixer. Don't
over-beat or the mixture will separate. Pour into molds. Allow to set
two or three hours. Place in a freezer two to three hours to harden.
Remove soap from mold and place on unprinted cardboard to age at
least two weeks. OATMEAL soap: Same recipe. Beat in one ounce of baby
oatmeal when the honey is added. GENERAL SOAP MAKING TIPS: Molds: Lye
reacts with most metals. Use ONLY heat-proof stone, glass, enamel,
stainless steel or plastic. Precautions with lye: Lye burns your
skin, removes paint and generates heat. Wear goggles and rubber
gloves when making soap. If lye gets on your skin, rinse it off with
vinegar. Add lye to the liquid while stirring to prevent the lye from
hardening in the bottom of the container. NEVER reheat lye-water in
the microwave. Set the container in a sink of hot water. Coconut oil
is sold in grocery stores with the cooking oils. I buy mine from
restaurants by the 5 gallon bucket. A mail order source in "Vinton
Popcorn Co.," phone # (319)-472-5235. Hardening and aging soap: The
soap is semi-liquid when poured. Time must be allowed for the soap to
harden and for the lye to react with the fats. Test soap by sticking
it to your tongue. If you feel a burning sensation, something went
wrong with the temperatures, measurements or the amount of stirring.
Further aging may allow the soap to become milder. Large bars of soap
can be mild on the outside while still being harsh inside. They
require longer aging than smaller bars. If a white coating forms on
your soap, wash it off before using or testing the soap. Freezing the
soap allows it to easily be removed from any mold - even glass. Soap
from lard smells like rancid bacon in a few months. Homemade soap
without coconut oil simply doesn't lather. SOURCES: "Soap: Making It,
Enjoying It" by Ann Bramson.  A $2.25 booklet of good recipes:
"Soapreme: Your Own Handmade Soap with Custom Molds," available from
Pourette Mfg. Co., PO Box 15220, Seattle, WA 98115. Request
Pourette's Soap Making Catalog of molds, scents, and coloring. From
Countryside & Small Stock Journal, Elaine White, Starkville, Miss.

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   10-07-94

