Title: Panzerotti Master Recipe
Categories: Pizza, Appetizer
Yield: 6 servings
40    To 45 3-inch panzerotti.
Yield: Roman Pepper Pastry will make approximately 30 to 35 3-inch
panzerotti.  Any of the other yeast doughs will yield approximately

Crust suggestions: Roman Pepper Pastry Crust, Basic Pizza Dough,
Sicilian- style, Semolina, Herb, or Pepper-Lard Dough

Six Fillings followed by General Instructions Filling #1 1/3 cup
tomato sauce 1/2 cup mozzarella or scamorza, coarsely shredded 1
garlic clove, peeled and minced 2 fresh basil leaves, finely minced,
or 1/4 tsp dried thyme, oregano, or marjoram Freshly ground black
pepper to taste

Filling #2 1/3 cup tomato sauce 1/2 cup mozzarella, coarsely shredded
1 -2 oz can anchovies, drained and finely chopped 1 tsp finely minced
fresh parsley leaves Freshly ground black pepper to taste

Filling #3 1/2 cup cooked spinach, squeezed dry and finely chopped
1/2 cup ricotta 2 Tbsp freshly grated Parmesan cheese 1/2 cup finely
minced prosciutto Freshly ground black pepper to taste

Filling #4 1/2 cup cooked spinach, squeezed dry and finely chopped 1
~2 oz can anchovies, drained and finely chopped 2 Tbsp drained capers
2 Tbsp ricotta Freshly ground black pepper to taste

Filling #5 1/2 cup shredded Fontina cheese 1/2 cup finely chopped
onion, sauteed in 2 tsp. olive oil until wilted 1 tsp dried herbes de
Provence or 1 Tbsp assorted fresh herbs 10 oil-cured black olives,
pitted and finely chopped Freshly ground black pepper to taste

Filling #6 1/2 cup ricotta 1/4 cup finely chopped salami 1/2 cup
smoked mozzarella, coarsely shredded

General Instructions for Panzerotti

1. Preheat the oven to 450 degrees for 30 minutes.

2. Roll the dough of your choice out to an even 1/8 inch thickness
with a rolling pin.  If necessary, use dustings of flour to prevent
the dough from sticking.

3. Cut out as many panzerotti as possible using a 3 inch glass as a
cutter.

4. Combine all of the ingredients together in a bowl for any of the 6
filling suggestions.

5. Put a scant teaspoon of filling on one half of each of the circles
of dough. (There will be leftover filling if using Roman Pepper
Pastry Dough; use it in an omelet.)

6. Fold the dough over into little crescent shapes, pressing down to
seal the edges with your fingers.  Place each one on an oiled baking
sheet.

7. Bake for 15 to 20 minutes, or until lightly colored.  Or deep-fry
in 2 inches of vegetable oil until golden.  Panzerotti are best
served piping hot.

Freezing Panzerotti

Freeze the raw panzerotti in one layer on a baking sheet.  Once they
are frozen solid, they can be transferred to plastic bags.  The can
be frozen up to 4 months.

Reheating Panzerotti

To reheat Panzerotti,simply put them on a baking sheet and warm them
up in a 350 degree oven for 10 to 15 minutes.

To bake frozen panzerotti, preheat the oven to 450 degrees.  Lay the
panzerotti on a baking sheet and cover them tightly with aluminum
foil. Bake for 15 minutes.  Then remove the foil and continue baking
until turnovers are golden brown.

Source: The Pizza Book by Evelyne Sloman Posted by Linda Davis

