Title: Pat's Famous Pasta Sauce
Categories: Salsa/sauce
Yield: 1 large pot!
MMMMM----------------------FROM: PAT FIELDS---------------------------
MMMMM-----------------CYBEREALM BBS 315-785-8098----------------------
2 ts Garlic powder or salt
1 tb Oregano
1 ts Parsley
2 tb Sugar
1/2 c  Romano cheese, grated
1/2 c  Parmesan cheese, grated
4 qt Tomatoes
1    30 oz jar Spaghetti Sauce
1 cn 20 oz tomato sauce
3 cn Tomato paste
4 tb Italian seasoning
1/2 ts Ground sage
NOTE: It is best to use fresh canned tomatos and when you use the
spaghetti sauce, the thicker the better (we use Prego).

In a very LARGE pot, using a vegetable mill, grind tomatos to remove
seeds and hard pulp. Pour the tomato sauce and spaghetti sauce in the
mill, and process it.If the tomatos you added were watery, you might
want to add a second jar/can of spaghetti sauce. Clean the jars out
with water. The point you are trying to do is to retain as much of
the essence of the ground whole tomatos as possible. Discard the
debris. Add the tomato paste directly to the tomato mixture. (Note,
clean the cans of paste as best as possible... you want them to be
very clean.)

Mix well. Salt and pepper to taste.

Add all spices and the cheeses and mix well. Cover and place on very
low heat. If you wish to add meatballs to the sauce while it is
cooking now is the time to make them. Once made, add them directly to
the sauce.

As it cooks you may want to adjust the spices and the cheeses
depending on your tastes. We add at least another tablespoon of
oregano, 2 table- spoons of parsley, a little more salt, and at least
another 1/2 cup each of romano and parmesan cheeses.

Stir every half hour or so to prevent scortching on the bottom of the
pot. When the sauce is cooked down to your taste (and the meatballs
are done to your liking), remove from heat and let sit for 1/2 hour.

Source: Pat Fields,Cyberealm BBS Watertown NY Typed for you in MM
format by Linda Fields, Cyberealm BBS Watertown NY 315-786-1120

Typist's note: This is the absolutely BEST sauce we have ever eaten,
and we have references for it from the users of the BBS!! Enjoy!

