Title: Pat Corley's German Mashed Potatoes
Categories: German, Potato, Fruit, Side dish
Yield: 6 servings
3 sl Bacon
1 md Onion, sliced thin
5 tb Butter
1 t  Cider vinegar
pn Sugar
4 md Russet potatoes, peeled and
-cut into 1" cubes
4 md Tart apples (Granny Smiths
-work well), peeled, cored,
-and quartered
Salt to taste
As Phil the bartender on MURPHY BROWN, Pat Corley sticks to serving
meat loaf and hamburgers, but in real life, his kitchen repertoir is
much larger. "I learned how to cook when I was young," explains the
actor, whose recipe here was passed on to him by a favorite German
relative. "I realized that if I wanted to eat well, I had to learn
how to cook and how to shop. And most important, I realized that to
be a really successful cook you have to be brave. When a recipe calls
for a quarter cup of wine, you don't measure it out. Just pour. Don't
measure ANYTHING out exactly. Go by taste, sight, and feel."

Oscar night always reminds Corley of an encounter he had with an Oscar
winner years ago. "I was appearing on Broadway in 'Sweet Bird of
Youth' and I got a call from Irene Worth in her dressing room. She
said, "There's someone here who wants to meet you.' So I knock on her
door and go in and Neil Simon was sitting there with some other
people, but I've never been impressed by stars. She gestured over to
one seat, and there was this elderly gentleman leaning on a cane who
said, 'I just wanted to tell you how much I've enjoyed your work.'
And I realized it was Laurence Olivier, and I literally ran from that
room, embarrased to tears.

Put potatoes and apples into a 4-quart saucepan with enough cold
water to cover them. Add 1/2 teaspoon salt. Bring to a boil, then
lower heat and simmer for 10-15 minutes or until tender. Meanwhile,
fry bacon until crisp. In a large skillet, saute onion in 1 teaspoon
butter until browned. Drain liquid from skillet. Drain and mash
potatoes and apples and add to skillet; place on low heat. Mix in
vinegar and remaining butter. Add a pinch of sugar and additional
salt to taste. Just before serving, top with onions and crumbled
bacon. Submitted By MICHAEL ORCHEKOWSKI   On   10-10-94

