Title: Pate En Croute
Categories: Down under, Appetizer
Yield: 8 servings
-Wine and Cookbook 1985
-Source:  Australian Vogue
pastry: 3 cups flour 1/2 teaspoon salt 250 g butter 2 egg yolks 4
tablespoons water marinade for veal and ham strips: 1/4 cup brandy
sprigs of fresh thyme and sage freshly ground pepper filling: 125 g
ham, cut in thin strips 200 g lean, thinly cut veal, cut in strips
250 g trimmed lean veal, cut in large dice 125 g lambs liver, cut in
large dice 250 g fat pork (pig's belly), cut in large dice 2/3 cup
white breadcrumbs 1 crushed garlic clove 1 teaspoon salt freshly
ground pepper 1/2 teaspoon dried thyme 1 tablespoon chopped parsley 2
eggs, beaten 125 g mushrooms, chopped finely little butter to saute
mushrooms To glaze finished pate en croute: 1 egg, beaten with 1
tablespoon water

To make pastry: put flour and salt into food processor, add butter,
cut in small pieces, and process with an on-off action until mix-
ture resembles coarse breadcrumbs.  Beat egg yolks with water, pour
into processor and process until dough forms a ball.  Wrap dough in
plastic wrap, form into an even flat cake and rest in the
refrigerator for 1 hour.

To make marinade: blend all ingredients together.

To make filling: marinate ham and veal strips in marinade for at
least 1 hour.  Process the diced veal, liver and fat pork in a food
processor until it resembles coarse mince.  Do this with an on-off
action so meat is not cut too finely.  Place in a bowl with
breadcrumbs, garlic, salt, pepper, dried thyme, parsley and beaten
eggs. Saute mushrooms a few minutes in a little butter.  Add to other
ingredients in bowl and mix well together.

To line tin with pastry: roll out pastry on a floured board. Butter a
27 cm oblong cake tin and line tin with pastry, leaving enough to
cover top and make a few leaves and flowers for decoration. It may be
difficult to lift pastry in one piece, so place manageable pieces of
pastry in the tin and press well with your fingers to ensure that tin
is evenly lined. Wet tin around top with a little water to make
pastry stick when it is cooking.

To fill tin with pate: put in a layer of 1/3 of filling, then half the
marinated strips arranged lengthwise, another layer of filling and
more strips, cover with last of filling and press well to even top.
Roll rest of pastry, drape over top and cut around with a knife to
even edges. Press edges together well with tines of a fork. Poke a
large skewer down centre of the pate en croute.  Cut a small strip of
pastry, wet pastry end, wrap around the skewer and wind strip around
to form a flower. Remove skewer and mould a tiny funnel of aluminium
foil to stick in centre of flower. This enables steam to escape while
it is baking in oven. Cut four leaves from pastry and stick around
flower with a little water.

To cook the pate en croute: bake in the centre of a pre-heated 180'C
oven for 1 hour and 10 minutes.  Remove from oven and paint top with
egg wash to glaze pastry as it cooks.  Cook for a further 20 minutes.
Leave to cool for 30 minutes before turning out on a cake cooler.
Slide out on its side and carefully turn right way up so top does not
break. Can be eaten warm or cold.  Serve with baby gherkins.
Bon-Appetit, Exec.Chef. Magnus Johansson From: Sherree Johansson
Date: 09-24-94
:

