Title: Pigeon in Red Wine Sauce
Categories: French, Game, Herbs/spice, Main dish
Yield: 4 servings
1 sm Sprig fresh rosemary
6    To 8 garlic cloves
1 ts Coriander seeds
3    Scallions; chopped
-- both white & green parts
Black pepper; to taste
6 tb Unsalted butter (3/4 stick)
4 c  Mixed greens and herbs
4    Pigeons (squab)
-- (about 1 lb. each)
4 c  Chicken stock
4 c  Red Burgundy wine
1    Onion; chopped
1    Bay leaf
1    Sprig fresh thyme
3    Sprigs fresh Italian parsley
1    Sprig fresh curly parsley
Wash and dry the pigeons; with a pair of kitchen shears, clip the
wing tips and the ends of the legs from each bird.  Cut the leg and
thigh joints, wings, and breast meat from the carcasses and set
aside. Reserve the carcasses for the sauce.

In a large nonaluminum saucepan, combine the carcasses, stock, wine,
onion, herbs, garlic and scallions over high heat.  Reduce heat and
simmer, uncovered, for 1 hour to allow the sauce to absorb all the
flavors. If it seems to be reducing too quickly, add a little water.
After 1 hour, increase heat and boil hard until the sauce is reduced
by half; strain, season with pepper and set aside.

In a large skillet, melt three tb. of the butter over medium-high
heat. Saute the legs and wings, turning until they are golden on all
sides, about 10 to 15 minutes.  Pour the strained sauce over the
pigeon, cover, and bring to a boil.  Reduce heat and simmer until the
pigeon pieces are tender when pricked with a fork, about 30 to 40
minutes. Remove the pigeon and stir 2 tb. of butter into the sauce.

A few minutes before serving, saute the boned breasts in the
remaining 3 tb. of butter for 2 minutes on each side; they will be
rare.

Mound the mixed greens and herbs on each plate and top with a pigeon
piece that has been cooked in the sauce.  Slice the breast and serve,
passing the sauce separately.

Note: To make this sauteed pigeon into a feast, Aude serves it with
peeled, roasted and sliced figs and slices of sauteed fresh foie gras.

From Aude Clement of Lac d'Enghien, France in "Cooking with Herbs" by
Emelie Tolley and Chris Mead.  New York: Clarkson N. Potter, Inc.,
1989. Pg. 233.  Posted by Cathy Harned.
Submitted By CATHY HARNED   On   10-08-94

