Title: Pita (Greens Pie) (Cfa)
Categories: Greek, Side dish, Vegetable, Cheese/eggs
Yield: 24 pieces
1 1/2 ts Rice; uncooked
3/4 lb Feta; crumbled or 1/2 pound
;Romano or Swiss cheese,
;grated
Cinnamon
FILA:
2 c  Flour; sifted
1/2 ts Salt
1/2 c  Water
3 tb Olive oil
1    Swiss Chard; bunch
1    Spinach; bunch
1    Curly endive; bunch
1    Parsley; bunch
1    Green onions; bunch
10    Mint leaves
1/2 lb Fila; 8 sheets
3/4 c  Olive oil
1 tb Salt
1 ts Pepper
You need tissue paper thin dough, called fila or leaves, for this
flaky, layered pie of mixed greens and cheese.  Fila sheets are
available, packaged in 1 pound box, at some greek shops, or follow
recipe above for scratch fila.

Wash greens and drain well.  Finely chop the Swiss chard, spinach,
endive, parsley, green onions, and mint.  Spread the greens out on an
old cloth and let stand at room temperature several hours to dry.
Unfold and spread out fila sheets separately to dry slightly.
Spread 2 tablespoons olive oil in the bottom of a 10 by 16 inch
baking pan. Place 1 sheet of fila in the pan.  Spread lightly with
olive oil. Arrange 3 more layers of fila on top (each spread with
oil) so that they hang over the top edges of the pan.  Toss together
the chopped greens, salt, pepper, rice , feta, and 1/4 cup of the
olive oil, and pile the greens mixture into the dough lined pan.
Sprinkle lightly with cinnamon.
Now fold over the edges of first sheet toward the center of pan,
spread lightly with olive oil, place another sheet of fila on top,
and spread it lightly with oil.  Continue to fold down the other 3
sheets of dough, oiling edges and inserting a sheet of fila between
each.
Cut only teh top layers of fila into squares.  Bake in a hot oven
(400 degrees (F)) for 1 1/4 hours, or until crust is golden brown and
the greens are tender.  Finish cutting into squares and serve hot or
cold.

If you cannot buy the fila, you may make it this way:

Sift 2 cups flour with 1/2 teaspoon salt and mix in enough water to
make a soft ball (approximately 1/2 cup water); knead in 3
tablespoons olive oil and knead until smooth.

Let sit 30 minutes.  Using an extra long rolling pin or broomstick,
roll out one eighth of dough on a floured board until it is paper
thin and approximately 16 by 24 inches.  Continute to roll out pieces
until you have 8 sheets of the thin fila dough

Source: "A Sunset Book": Cooking with a Foreign Accent  circa '58
MMed by: earl.cravens@salata.com
Submitted By EARL CRAVENS   On   10-04-94

