Title: Polenta with Pumpkin and Kale
Categories: Tex/mexican, Vegetable
Yield: 1 servings
Tomatoes, undrained and
Chopped
1/2 t  Salt
1/2 t  Pepper
1    16 oz can mashed cooked
Pumpkin
Basic polenta (see below)
Cooking spray
1 c  (4 oz) shredded no-fat swiss
Cheese (totally optional)
Water
4 c  Loosely packed chopped kale
(or spinach)
1 c  Chopped onion
1 T  Minced fresh jalapeno
3/4 t  Ground cumin
3/4 t  Ground cinnamon
6    Cloves garlic, minced
1 c  Sliced mushrooms
1    14 5 oz can (no salt added)
Heat a large Dutch oven, non-stick or sprayed with Pam.  Add onions
and push around to brown a little. Add a few Tbsp water and stir to
unstick from bottom. Add Chopped Kale or spinach and stir about 5
minutes until all is wilted and onions are translucent. Add more
water as needed to prevent burning.

Add jalapeno,  cumin, cinnamon and garlic, saute 3 minutes. Stir in
mushrooms, cover and cook 5 minutes, Stir in tomatoes, cover and cook
5 minutes, Add salt, pepper and mashed pumpkin and stir well. Cook
uncovered 3 minutes, stirring well. Remove from heat.

Prepare basic Polenta, spread half in 11x7x2 inch baking dish coated
with non-stick spray.  Spread pumpkin mixture evenly over polenta.
Sprinkle with Swiss cheese (optional)   Spread remaining polenta
evenly over. Bake at 375 F for 30 minutes or until lightly browned..
Let stand 5 minutes before serving. Yeild 6 servings.

Basic Polenta:

1 1/4 cups cornmeal 1/2 teaspoon salt 4 cups water

1. Place cornmeal and salt in large saucepan. Gradually add water,
stirring constantly with a wire wisk.  Bring to a boil, reduce heat
to medium, cook uncovered 15 minutes, stirring frequently. Yeild 4
cups.

2.  Microwave method: Place cornmeal and salt in a 3 quart microwave
cassarole.  Gradually add water, stirring until blended. Cover,
microwave on HIGH 12 minutes, stirring every 3 minutes. Let stand
covered 5 minutes.

I made this two times, the first time I couldn't find kale in the
particular grocery store that I went to so I used spinach. I used the
microwave method for polenta since I tend to scorch things and it
worked great.  The first 2 times I stirred I wasn't sure it was going
to thicken by the time it finished it was perfect and it sure is easy
to just set the timer for 3 minutes and stir when it beeps. The
non-fat cheese is totally optional, in fact I shredded it then forgot
to put it in the first time . In is fine without cheese, but the
cheese tasted good on the microwaved leftovers too.  (The only edible
non-fat cheese I've found is called Lifetime brand and they don't
sell it in every store here). The effect is rather like lasagna but
different.

From:    maoh@phyast.nhn.uoknor.edu (Maureen O'Halloran) Fatfree
Digest [Volume 1 Issue 1] June 22, 1994 Formatted by Sue Smith,
S.Smith34, TXFT40A@Prodigy.com using MMCONV

: From Cooking Light magazine (Jan/Feb 1994):

