Title: Pollo En Nogada (Chicken in Nut Sauce)
Categories: So. america, Main dish, Salsa/sauce, Tex/mexican
Yield: 4 servings
;Cruda), or substitute 1/3
;cup drained, canned,
;Italian plum tomatoes
1/2 c  Onions; coarsely chopped
1/4 ts Garlic; finely chopped
1    Slice white bread; broken
;into pieces
1/2 ts Dried oregano
1/8 ts Ground cinnamon
1/8 ts Ground cloves
4 tb Lard
1    Chicken (3 to 3 1/2 pounds);
;cut into 6 to 8 serving
;pieces
2 c  Cold water
SAUCE:
3    Dried ancho chilies
1/2 c  Boiling chicken stock; fresh
;or canned
1/2 c  Pecans; shelled
1/4 c  Almonds; blanched
1 lg Tomato; peeled, seeded and
;coarsely chopped (see salsa
Under cold running water, pull the stems off the chilies, break
them in half and brush out the seeds.  With a small, sharp knife, cut
away any large ribs.  Tear the chilies into smaller pieces and place
them in a bowl. Pour 1/2 cup of boiling stock over them and let them
soak for 30 minutes.
Place the pecans in the jar of a blender and blend at high speed
for 15 seconds or until they are finely ground.  With the back of a
spoon, force the ground pecans through a sieve set over a bowl. Grind
and sieve the blanched almonds in the same fashion.  Pour the chilies
and their soaking liquid into the jar of the blender and puree at
high speed for about 15 seconds.  Add the tomato, pecans, almonds,
onions, garlic, bread, oregano, cinnamon and cloves, and blend for 30
seconds, or until the mixture is reduced to a smooth puree.
(To make the sauce by hand, puree the chilies, tomato, onions,
garlic, and bread--a cup or so at a time--in a food mill set over a
bowl. With a mortar and pestle, pulverize the pecans and almonds and
then sieve them. Add the nuts to the chili mixture together with the
oregano, cinnamon and cloves.)
In an 8 to 10 inch skillet, melt 1 tablespoon of the lard over
moderate heat until a light haze forms above it.  Pour in the puree;
cook uncovered, stirring occasionally, for 5 minutes.  Remove the
skillet from the heat and set aside.
Pat the chicken pieces dry with paper towels; they won't brown well
if they are damp.  In a heavy 10 to 12 inch skillet melt the
remaining 3 tablespoons of lard over high heat until a light haze
forms above it. Brown the chicken a few pieces at a time, starting
them skin side down and turning them with tongs.  As the pieces turn
a rich golden brown, place them in a 3 quart flameproof casserole.
Add 2 cups of water and bring to a boil.  Reduce the heat, cover, and
simmer for 30 minutes, or until the chicken is tender but not falling
apart. Drain off the stock. Pour the waiting sauce into the casserole
and turn the chicken about in it until the pieces are thoroughly
coated with sauce. Cook, uncovered, over low heat for 10 minutes,
basting the chicken every now and then with its sauce. Either serve
directly from the casserole or arrange the chicken attractively on a
heated serving platter and pour the sauce over it.

31 of 108

Time/Life 'Foods of the World', Recipes: Latin American Cooking

Earl Cravens earl.cravens@mgmtsys.com
Date: 09-16-94
From: Earl Cravens

