Title: Pollo En Mole Verde (Chicken in Green Tomato and Nut Sauc
Categories: So. america, Main dish, Chicken, Tex/mexican
Yield: 4 servings
;drained
1/2 c  Onions; coarsely chopped
1/4 c  Fresh coriander; coarsely
;chopped (cilantro)
1    Canned serrano chili;
;drained and rinsed in cold
;water
1 c  Chicken stock; fresh or can
1/4 ts Garlic; finely chopped
1/2 ts Salt
1/8 ts White pepper; freshly ground
1 tb Lard
1    Chicken, 3 to 3 1/2 pounds;
;cut into 6 or 8 serving
;pieces
2 c  Cold water
SAUCE:
1/2 c  Pepitas (pumpkin seeds)
1/4 c  Walnuts; shelled
1/4 c  Blanched almonds
2    Fresh poblano chilies; or
;substitute 2 fresh green
;peppers, about 3 1/2 inches
;in diameter
10 oz Can Mexican green tomatoes;
In a heavy 4 to 5 quart flameproof casserole, combine the chicken
and 2 cups of cold water.  Bring to a boil over high heat, reduce the
heat to low, cover, and simmer for 30 minutes, or until the chicken
is tender but not falling apart.
Place the pepitas in the jar of a blender and blend at high speed
for 15 seconds, or until they are finely ground.  With the back of a
spoon, force the ground pepitas through ha sieve set over a bowl.
Grind and sieve the walnuts and the blanched almonds--separately--in
the same fashion. Return the pepitas, walnuts and almonds to the
blender. Pour in 1 cup of chicken stock and puree at high speed for
about 15 seconds.
Roast the poblano chilies or green peppers by impaling them, one at
a time, on the tines of a long handled fork and turning them over a
gas flame until the skin blisters and darkens on all sides.  Or place
the chilies or peppers on a baking sheet or broiler pan, and broil
them about 3 inches from the heat for about 5 minutes, turning them
so that they color on all sides.  Be careful not to let them burn.
Wrap the chilies in a damp towel until the skins slip off.  With a
small, sharp knife, cut out their stems and thick white membranes and
discard the seeds. cut the chilies into chunks and place them in the
jar of a blender. Blend at high speed for 10 seconds.  Add the green
tomatoes, onions, coriander, serrano chili, stock, garlic, salt and
pepper, and blend for 30 seconds, or until the mixture is reduced to
a smooth puree.
(To make the sauce by hand, puree the chilies or peppers, tomatoes,
onions, coriander, serrano chili and garlic--a cup or so at a
time--in a food mill set over a bowl.  With a mortar and pestle,
grind the pepitas, walnuts and almonds, one at a time, and sieve
them. Add the nuts to the chili mixture, together with the salt,
pepper and 1 cup of chicken stock.)
In an 8 to 10 inch heavy skillet, melt 1 tablespoon of lard over
moderate heat, pour in the nut chili puree, and cook for 5 minutes,
stirring frequently.  Remove the skillet from the heat.
When the chicken is done, drain off all its cooking liquid, and in
its place pour the sauce into the casserole.  Turn the chicken about
in the sauce to coat it thoroughly, and simmer it over low heat,
tightly covered, for about 10 minutes, or until the chicken is hot
and well flavored with the sauce.  Serve either directly from the
casserole or arrange the chicken attractively on a serving platter
and pour the sauce over it.

28 of 108

Time/Life 'Foods of the World', Recipes: Latin American Cooking

Earl Cravens earl.cravens@mgmtsys.com
Date: 09-16-94
From: Earl Cravens

