Title: Poularde a la Pattaya (Thailand Chicken in Curry Broth)
Categories: Chicken, Curries
Yield: 4 servings
1/8 t  Pepper
3 c  Chicken stock
1 1/2 t  Fresh basil leaves
Serves 4
1 c  Freshly grated coconut
1 c  Boiling water
2 lg Chicken breasts, skinned
(or 1 tsp. dried basil leaves)
boned, and cut into bite-sized
pieces 1/4 oz. or more Thai curry paste 1 Tbsp. soy sauce 1 tsp. salt
Several hours ahead, or the day before, prepare the coconut milk
necessary to the taste of this dish. Place grated coconut and hot
water in a blender. Blend on high speed about 2 minutes, scraping
down the sides of the container occasionally. Line a strainer with a
double thickness of cheesecloth and place it over a bowl. Pour
coconut mixture into the strainer, allowing the hot liquid to drain
through. When cheesecloth is cool enough to handle, pick it up,
twist, and squeeze out as much remaining liquid as possible. Discard
the chesecloth and the depleted coconut. Pour pressed coconut milk
into a slender container and refrigerate several hours or overnight
(but not much longer or coconut milk will spoil), until thick coconut
milk rises and forms a creamy white layer on top. When you are ready
to begin frying, skim off the thick white layer and place it in a
large pan over medium-high heat.  (Freeze the remaining coconut milk
for other uses.)  Stir for 1 to 2 minutes until hot, then add the
diced chicken, curry paste, soy sauce, salt and pepper.  Saute these
ingredients about 1 minute to blend flavors and partially cook the
chicken. Pour in the chicken stock; add the basil.  Bring to a gently
boil, then lower the heat and simmer gently 10 minutes longer, or
until chicken is cooked through. Serve in coconut shells or bowls,
accompanied by fried rice, peanuts, raisins, papaya balls, diced
fresh pineapple, chutneys, and the like. Dinner guests add the rice
and other accompaniments according to their taste. From:
Sheraton-Bangkok Hotel Bangkok, Thailand Shared By: Pat Stockett

Submitted By FRED TOWNER   On   10-16-94

