Title: Quince Information
Categories: Fruit, Information
Yield: 1 info below
1    Info below
Wittenberg wrote: "Here is some information on quince that I got from
Prodigy awhile back.  It was posted by Deborah Madison the cookbook
author of THE SAVORY WAY and restaurant chef."

Madison wrote: "Quinces are, for me, the queen of fall fruits.

"Quinces are intensely fragrant, with a perfume like a mingling of
pears and apples. Your farmers' market may be your best bet for
finding this golden fruit. It lasts for a long time and once you have
some quince compote on hand you will be happy to discover its many
uses.

"The quince is a marvelous, ancient fruit that is found in many parts
of the world, from the Mediterranean to Northern Europe, to South
America, the U.S., Mexico and onward. Closely related to apples and
pears, the quince looks something like a combination of the 2--like a
lumpy, pear-shaped apple with a golden skin, which is sometimes
covered with a soft down."

"The best thing about the quince, though, is its perfume, which is
rich and heady, suggestive of narcissus as well as pears and apples.
A single ripe quince placed on a bureau can do wonders for a room as
well.

"A properly matured quince will be a rich golden hue and very
perfumed. Unfortunately most commercial quinces are picked too green
so they never develop the color and perfume they should have. Look in
farmers' markets for the real thing. You can also find quince trees
in people's yards, for the fruit stays on in the fall, long after the
leaves have dropped, making them easy to spot.

"Most people don't know what to do with them and can be persuaded to
part with a few for the asking."

"Unlike apples and pears, quince must be cooked. Eat it raw, and your
mouth will pucker. But cooked, it is quite versatile and delicious.
Since it is full of pectin, it lends itself very well to the making
of preserves, but can also be cooked with meat and fish (as in
Moroccan recipes) and is wonderful poached in a syrup spiced with
cinnamon and clove. Once poached, it turns a luscious shade of pink
and can be served by itself, with cream cheeses, in a compote, or
with apples and pears in pies, tarts and other dishes.

"Quinces are usually peeled before cooking. The flesh is dense, but
breaks easily, so care must be taken in handling them if retaining
the shape is important.

"If fresh quinces are handled carefully and not bruised, they should
last for months. Poached in a heavy syrup, they will keep very well
for a month or 2 refrigerated."

From THE SAVORY WAY by Deborah Madison.  New York: Bantam Books, 1990.
From: howard_w@iat.holonet.net (Howard E. Wittenberg) in
rec.food.cooking. Formatted by Cathy Harned.
Submitted By CATHY HARNED   On   10-16-94

