Title: Raisin English Muffins
Categories: Bread, Breakfast, Fruit
Yield: 18 muffins
3 tb Butter (or marg.); softened
1 c  Raisins
5 1/2 c  All-purpose flour;(to 6cups)
Cornmeal
1 pk Dry yeast
1 c  Water; warm (105 to 115f)
1 c  Milk
2 tb Sugar
1 ts Salt
Dissolve yeast in water in a large mixing bowl; let stand 5 minutes.

Combine milk, sugar, salt, and butter in a small saucepan.  Cook over
medium-low heat, stirring until butter melts.  Cool to lukewarm (105
to 115 degrees).

Stir milk mixture, raisins, and 3 cups flour into yeast mixture; beat
until smooth.  Add 2-1/2 to 3 cups flour to form a stiff dough.

Turn dough out onto a floured surface, and knead 2 minutes or until
dough can be shaped into a ball (dough will be slightly sticky).
Place in a well-greased bowl, turning to grease top.  Cover and let
rise in a warm place (85 degrees) free of drafts, about 1 hour or
until doubled in bulk.

Punch dough down, and divide in half.  Turn each half out onto a
smooth surface heavily sprinkled with cornmeal.  Pat one half of
dough into a circle, 1/2 inch thick, using palms of hands; cut dough
into rounds with a 2-3/4inch cutter. (Cut carefully, as any leftover
dough should not be reused.)

Sprinkle 2 baking sheets with cornmeal.  Transfer cut dough rounds to
baking sheets, placing 2 inches apart with cornmeal side down (one
side of dough should remain free of cornmeal).  Repeat process with
remaining half of dough.  Cover and let rise in a warm place (85F),
free of drafts, for 30 minutes or until doubled in bulk.

Using a wide spatula, transfer rounds to a preheated 360 degree,
lightly greased electric skillet.  Place cornmeal side down; cook for
6 minutes. Turn and cook 6 additional minutes.  Cool on wire racks.

To serve, split muffins and toast until lightly browned.  Store
muffins in an airtight container.

Note: Muffins may be cooked over direct medium-high heat in a skillet.

To ease the morning breakfast rush, the muffins can be prepared ahead
of time and stored in an airtight container; just split and toast
before serving.

SOURCE: Southern Living Magazine, sometime in 1980. Typed for you by
Nancy Coleman From: Nancy Coleman Date: 29 Mar 94
Date: 09-17-94
From: Gail Shipp

