Title: Red Beans and Rice with Salsa
Categories: Rice, Beans, Salsa/sauce
Yield: 6 servings
2 tb Chili powder
1 ts Ground cumin
1 ts Dried coriander
1 ts Red pepper flakes, crushed
1 c  Tomato juice
1 c  Brown rice
2 c  Chicken stock, fat skimmed
- off
1/2 c  Dried red beans
1/2 c  Dried kidney beans
3 c  - Water
1 1/2 c  Onion, chopped (1-2 onions)
3    Garlic cloves, peeled and
- halved lengthwise
1 ts Dried oregano
1    Bay leaf
MMMMM-----------------------FOR THE SALSA----------------------------
- only (2 large scallions)
1/4 c  Lime juice, freshly squeezed
1/4 c  Fresh cilantro, chopped
1 1/2 c  Tomato, cubed (1 lg tomato)
2 tb Jalape*o pepper, (1 large)
1/4 c  Scallion, sliced, white part
Pick over and rinse beans.  Put them into a large bowl and cover
completely with cold water.  Let the beans soak overnight (or for at
least 8 hours). Or use the quicker method described in "Soaking Dried
Beans".

Drain the beans and transfer them to a large pot.  Add the 3 cups
water. Bring to a boil over medium heat and cook for 5 minutes.

Stir in the onion, garlic, oregano, and bay leaf.  Reduce the heat to
low and simmer, uncovered, for about 1 hour, until the beans are
tender.

Add the chili powder, cumin, coriander, red pepper flakes, and tomato
juice, stirring to mix.  Continue to cook while preparing the rice.

Put in the rice and chicken stock in a medium saucepan.  Bring to a
boil over medium-high heat.  Cover, reduce heat to low, and simmer
for 45 minutes, or until tender.

In the meantime, combine all the salsa ingredients in a small serving
bowl and set it aside for the flavors to meld.

When the rice is done, stir it into the bean mixture.  Ladle into
bowls and serve with the salsa on the side.

Fat per serving = 2.1 grams Calories per serving = 278

An abundance of dried herbs and spices, garlic, and onion tantalize
the tongue with every mouthful of this potent pairing of nutritious,
high-protein beans and rice.  I serve it with fish or poultry, or as a
wintertime one-dish meal.  For even more zest, garnish each serving
with a generous sprinkle of chopped fresh cilantro.

Source: "In the Kitchen With Rosie" by Rosie Daley, ISBN 0-679-43404-6
Typed by Debbie Antes
Submitted By JOELL ABBOTT   On   09-28-94

