Title: Red Berry Cream Cheese Pie
Categories: Pie/tart, Dessert, Fruit, Cheese/eggs
Yield: 10 servings
1 t  Pure vanilla extract
2 pt Strawberries, rinsed and
-hulled
1/2 pt Raspberries, picked over
3/4 c  Unsweetened apple juice
-concentrate, thawed
1 1/2 t  Cornstarch
1 1/2 c  Zwieback crumbs
4 tb Reduced-calorie butter
-substitute, melted
2 t  Finely grated lemon zest
12 oz Nonfat cream cheese
1/2 c  Nonfat plain yogurt
2    Eggs
2 tb Fresh lemon juice
When glazing the pie, use a pastry brush first to gently cover
berries. Drizzle as much remaining glaze as needed evenly over the
top to give it a great sheen.

1. Preheat the oven to 350'F.

2. Mix together the zwieback crumbs, melted butter substitute and 1
teaspoon lemon zest until well combined. Press the crumbs into the
bottom of a 9-1/2" springform pan, pushing the crumbs up to about 1"
around the sides. Bake for 5 minutes. Set aside.

3. Place the cream cheese, yogurt and eggs in a bowl and beat until
smooth with an electric mixer. Add the remaining teaspoon of lemon
zest, lemon juice and vanilla; mix well.

4. Pour the cream cheese mixture into the pan. Bake for 45 minutes or
until firm and just set in the center. Cool to room temperature.

5. Arrange 1 pint of the whole strawberries in a ring around the
outer edge on top of the cheesecake. Arrange the raspberries in the
center.

6. To make the glaze, mash remaining pint of strawberries with back
of a fork. Place 1/2 cup mashed berries (reserve remainder for
another use) in a small saucepan with the apple juice concentrate and
cornstarch. Bring the mixture to a boil and cook, stirring, for 2
minutes. Remove from heat and let cool slightly.

7. Using a pastry brush, dab the glaze gently over berries on the pie.
Drizzle as much as needed of the remaining glaze over pie so that the
entire surface is covered in a thin glaze.

8. Chill pie for 4 hours before serving.

Per serving: 138 calories, 4 grams fat, 42 milligrams cholesterol.
Date: 09-24-94
From: Michael Orchekowski

