Title: Risotto Con Frutti Di Mare
Categories: Italian, Crab/shrimp, Clam/oyster, Fish, Soup/stew
Yield: 6 servings
RISOTTO==
4 1/2 c  Water
4 T  Coarsely chopped fresh
-parsley
3 1/2 t  Salt
2 c  Long-grain rice
2 T  Unsalted butter
1/2 lb Small squid
4 T  Olive oil
1/2 c  Dry white wine
1 lb Mussels *OR*
3/4 lb Scallops
1 lb Small cherrystone clams
1/2 lb Medium shrimp
Clean and cut up squid and put them in a big frying pan with 2 T of
the olive oil.  Cook over medium heat, stirring constantly for 3 or 4
minutes, or until the color of the squid changes to pink and
lavendar. Add the wine, let it evaporate, and then reduce the heat to
a simmer and cook for 20 minutes.  In the meantime, scrub and clean
the mussels and wash the clams. Put the remaining 2 T of olive oil in
a good-sized pot and drop in the mussels and clams.  Cover and cook
on high heat, stirring a couple of times, about 10 minutes, or until
all the shells are opened. Turn off the heat, and let cool enough to
handle. Separate the mussels and clams from their shells. Let the
juices drip back into the pan they were cooked in, discard the
shells, and put the meat in with the squid. Peel and devein the
shrimp, and add them to the squid, mussels, and clams.  Put the
shrimp shells in the pan in which they mussels first cooked, add 1/2
c of the water, bring to a boil, and simmer about 15 minutes.  Then
strain this broth through a cheesecloth-lined sieve into the frying
pan with the squid and shellfish.  Add the parsley, with 1 1/2 t of
the salt and simmer about 5 minutes.  If you substitute fresh
scallops for the mussels, be sure you use small ones.  Add them to
the shrimp and squid when you put in the parsley, as they should cook
only a short time if they are to remain flavorful and tender.  Put 4
cups of the water, the rice, butter and the remaining 2 t of salt in
a big pot, and bring to a boil. Stir, cover, and reduce heat to
simmer. Cook about 8 minutes, stirring a couple of times. Uncover,
and add the squid and shellfish with their sauce. Keep on cooking and
stirring over low heat until the rice is tender and flavored with the
fish.  Serve immediately.  From The Romagnolis' Table by Margaret &
G. Franco Romagnoli. Submitted By TERRI WOLTMON   On   10-01-94

