Title: Roast Duckling
Categories: Poultry, Main dish
Yield: 3 frozen rea
-quartered
Duck Giblet Broth
Golden Gravy
Pumpernickel Stuffing
-duckling (about 4 1/2
-pounds each)
2 ts Salt
1/2 ts Pepper
3 sm Onions, peeled and
Description:

It's smart planning to buy an extra bird just to have on hand to
turn into a delectable second-day treat.

Roast at 325F about 3 hours. Makes enough for 2 meals. 6 servings
each.

Instructions:

1. Wash and dry ducklings.  Pierce skin all over with fork so fat
will cook out. (Set giblets aside to simmer for broth)

2.  Rub skin with mixture of salt and pepper: stuff 4 onion quarters
into cavity of each bird; place on a rack in a large roasting pan.
(Or use two small pans, if necessary)

3.  Roast, uncovered in a slow over 325F 3 hours, or until drumstick
joints move easily and ducklings are a rich golden-brown.  (During
roasting, pierce skin with fork several times.  Also to keep fat from
smoking, dip it from the roasting pan into a bowl several times
during cooking. There will be as much as 6 cupfuls.)

4.  Cut 2 ducklings into quarters. (Poultry sheers do a fast job.)
Arrange on a heated serving platter.  Serve with Golden Gravy and
Pumpernickel Stuffing ( Set other duckling aside to cool.)

5.  Wrap cooled duckling; chill with 4 cups of Duck Giblet Broth or
Duck Pilaf for another meal.

Duck Giblet Broth

Combine giblets (except liver) and necks with 1 medium-size onion,
chopped; handful of celery tops; 2 teaspooons of salt; and 6  cups
water in a large saucepan.  Simmer one hour.  Add livers for last 20
minutes cooking. Strain stock; measure; add water, if needed to make
6 cups. Save 4 cups for making Duck Pilaf,  Grind or chop giblets and
add to remaining 2 cups broth for Golden Gravy.  Makes 6 cups.

Golden Gravy

Remove rack from roasting pan.  Tip pan and our off all fat into a
bowl. Return 4 tablespoons to pan; blend with 4 tablespoons flour;
cook stirring all the time, just until mixture bubbles.  Stir in 2
cups of broth with ground giblets; continue cooking and stirring,
scraping baked-on juices from bottom and sides of pan, until gray
thickens and boils 1 minute. Season to taste with salt and pepper.
Makes about 2 1/2 cups.

Source/Author: Family Circle Illustrated Library of Cooking / typo Bob
Shiells
Date: 09-25-94
From: Bob Shiells

