Title: Smoked Sausages
Categories: Cajun/creol, Pork, Sausage
Yield: 15 servings
1/4 c  Dried red pepper
1 1/2 T  Garlic powder
1 t  Whie pepper
8 1/2 lb Pork - 25%-30% fat -
-coursely ground
1/4 c  Salt - plus 1-1/2 Tbsp
Serve these spicy deliciously smoky sausages at breakfast, or use in
jambalaya, gumbo, and in etouffees.  They can also be smothered with
tomatoes and onions as a main dish, or used to flavor vegetable
dishes or beans.

Makes 8-1/2 pounds smoked sausages or about 45 breakfast patties.

The pork must be coarsely ground (what we call "chili grind."
Preferably at room temperature.

Use 1/4 cup plus 1-1/2 tsp crushed dried red pepper for very spicy
Louisiana link-style sausage: use much less for mild sausage.

Use pork sausage casings OR, for sausage patties, 4-1/4 tsp powdered
sage (or to taste).

Combine all ingredients except casings in a large roasting pan and mix
well.  Knead 3-4 minutes; include sage if making uncased breakfast
sausage patties.  Let stand 20 minutes at room temperature to allow
flavor to develop.  Pinch off a small piece of the mixture, form into
a tiny patty, fry it to taste the seasonings, and correct seasoning
as needed.

Cut the sausage casings into 2-1/2 to 3-foot lengths.  Using a
sausage-stuffing attachment on the meat grinder or mixer, fill each
casing until it's firm but not packed.  It may be more convenient to
fill the casing to only 8 inches, tie it but not cut it, and
continue, so that you have strings of sausages instead of a single
giant.  Tie the ends. Either smoke the sausages the same day or
refrigerate them and smoke them the next day.

To smoke the sausages, use a smokehouse, if possible.  Using a
hardwood like oak, start a very low, smoky fire with no open flame.
(Do not use charcoal lighter or briquettes.) Drape sausages over a
wooden dowel (an iron rod is liable to get too hot and break the
sausages). Hang the sausages 4-5 feet above the fire.  Tend the coals
to keep the smoke going, rather than a real fire; if fire flares up,
slowly sprinkle water or dirt on the coals until flames die down.
Smoke the sausages at a temperature between 170 and 250 degrees
(measured by inserting an instant-reading thermometer in any air
vent) at least 8 hours. If you can, smoke them the next day as well.
Wrap all the sausages tightly. Reserve as many sausages as you will
use during the next week, and store the rest in the freezer.

To serve smoked sausages as a meat course, cook in a small amount of
water (about enough to come halfway up the sausage) until heated
through. Source: Cookin' with Queen Ida - ISBN 1-55958-050-X

per serving:
Approx. Cook Time: 16:00 Cholesterol
Calories
grams per serving:
per serving: Marks:

Submitted By FRED TOWNER   On   10-14-94

