Title: Stuffed Guinea Fowl with Bacon Rolls and Bread Sauce
Categories: Poultry, Main dish, Down under
Yield: 8 servings
MMMMM----------------SOURCE:  AUSTRALIAN VOGUE WI---------------------
Stuffed guinea fowl with bacon rolls and bread sauce 8 No 5 guinea
fowls 8 rashers rindless bacon softened butter to cook guinea fowls
stuffing: 225 g butter 2 onions, chopped finely 450 g fresh white
breadcrumbs 2/3 cup chopped parsley chopped mixture fresh herbs to
taste (or good pinch dried herbs) salt, freshly ground pepper bread
sauce: 1 onion, peeled 6 cloves 1 bay leaf 2 cups milk pinch nutmeg
salt, freshly ground pepper 100 g fresh white breadcrumbs 2
tablespoons butter Garnish: 16 rashers rindless bacon To cook guinea
fowl: remove necks and any remaining feathers from guinea fowl and
cut off wing tips.  (Reserve necks and wing tips for gravy and
stock.) Wash and dry fowls with paper towels. To make stuffing: melt
butter in fry pan, add chopped onions and cook gently until onions
have softened a little.  Remove pan from stove and add breadcrumbs,
parsley, herbs, salt and pepper.  Mix well. Use to stuff inside of
birds; secure openings with poultry pins. Butter each bird and
sprinkle with a little salt and plenty of freshly ground pepper.  Cut
each bacon rasher into 3 pieces and place over top of each bird.
Liberally butter a large baking tin. Put in birds and cook for 1 hour
on centre shelf of pre-heated 190'C oven. Baste several times while
roasting. To make bread sauce: stick cloves into onion and put in
heavy-bottomed saucepan with bay leaf, milk, nutmeg, salt, pepper,
breadcrumbs and butter.  Mix breadcrumbs into milk and butter.  Cook
over very low heat, stirring frequently until flavour is extracted
from onion and cloves, and sauce thickens.  Remove onion, cloves, bay
leaf before serving sauce hot, with guinea fowls. To make bacon
rolls: roll bacon up neatly and thread on skewer. When guinea fowls
are cooked, quickly cook rolls under griller, turning once. Serve one
or two rolls per person. Bon-Appetit, Exec.Chef. Magnus Johansson

Submitted By SHERREE JOHANSSON   On   09-26-94

