Title: Sun Dried Tomato Dip
Categories: Dip, Appetizer, Microwave
Yield: 1 servings
1 1/2 ts Oregano, Dried
1 1/2 ts Thyme, Dried
1 1/4 c  Olive Oil
1/4 c  Vegetable Oil
1/2 lb Sun-Dried Tomatoes, Dry
(Not In Oil)
2 c  Water
10 md Cloves Garlic, Peeled
MICROWAVE OVEN METHOD: Combine tomatoes, water, garlic, oregano and
thyme in a 13x9x2-inch oval glass or ceramic dish.  Cover tightly
with microwave plastic wrap. Cook at 100% in a high-wattage oven for
8 minutes. Prick plastic to release steam. Remove from oven and
uncover.  Stir well. Re-cover and cook for 8 minutes longer.  Prick
plastic to release steam. Remove from oven and uncover.  Stir well
and allow to stand, stirring occasionally, until cool and most of the
liquid has been absorbed. Transfer to a 1-1/2-quart souffle dish.
Pour 3/4 cup of the olive oil and the vegetable oil over the tomato
mixture. Cover tightly with microwave plastic wrap and cook for 5
minutes.  Prick plastic to release steam. Remove from oven and
uncover.  Stir and allow to stand until cool. Transfer to the work
bowl of a food processor and puree until smooth. Scrape into a large
bowl and stir in remaining olive oil if serving immediately.
Otherwise, pack in a refrigerator storage container with a tightly
fitting lid. The dip will keep as long as a month, so think about
making the whole quantity. STOVE-TOP METHOD: Cover sun-dried tomatoes
with water in nonreactive saucepan. Bring to a boil over med heat,
about 8 minutes. Reduce heat to a simmer and cook, covered, for 22
minutes. Allow to cool. Drain. Cook with oil, garlic, oregano and
thyme over low heat, covered, for 20 minutes. Puree. Above makes 3
cups. Author's note: The sun-dried tomato dip is a real breakthrough.
At a recent cocktail party, 7 guests demanded the recipe. Buying
sun-dried tomatoes dry in bulk instead of packed in oil makes them
less expensive. Reviving them in the microwave means that you can use
a minimum of liquid for optimum intensity of flavor. Then they be
packed up in good quality olive oil (much better than that which
comes with them in jars) to use as needed or to turn into this dip,
with its rich, mystifying flavor.  The dip keeps for weeks in the
refrigerator. You will want to have the ubiquitous sliced raw
vegetables; fennel does well with this dip. You don't have to use a
microwave oven; you can still make this dip even if it is slightly
less intense in flavor. The reward is the cooking water. Save it to
use for boiling pasta. Cooked either way, this dip makes a delicious
pasta sauce. Below are timings for other amounts of sun-dried
tomatoes so that you can multiply and divide the recipe as you want.
Almost every informal party requires at least one dip. Allow 1/4 cup
per guest.  At bigger parties, I often supply two or three, spacing
them around the room(s) with dippers at each location. MICROWAVE OVEN
METHOD: FOR 1/4 POUND DRIED TOMATOES: With 1 cup water in a 2-1/2
quart souffle dish, cook, covered, at 100% in a high-wattage oven 5
minutes; prick plastic to release steam; stir; cook, uncovered, 5
minutes. In a low-wattage oven, cook 9 minutes and 9 minutes. FOR 1/2
POUND DRIED TOMATOES: With 2 cups water in a 13x9x2-inch oval glass
or ceramic dish, cook in a high-wattage oven 8 minutes, then 8
minutes. In a low-wattage oven, cook 12 minutes and 14 minutes. FOR 1
POUND DRIED TOMATOES: With 4 cups water in a 5-quart casserole, cook
in a high-wattage oven 14 minutes, then 14 minutes.  In a low-wattage
oven, cook 20 minutes and 20 minutes. STOVE-TOP METHOD: Cover
sun-dried tomatoes with water in a nonreactive saucepan. Bring to a
boil over medium heat, about 8 minutes. Reduce heat to a simmer and
cook, covered, for 22 minutes. Allow to cool. Drain. Recipe from
"Party Food" by Barbara Kafka. Source: Party Food by Barbara Kafka

