Title: Sushi (Cfa)
Categories: Japanese, Side dish, Rice, Fish
Yield: 8 slices
6    String beans; cut in half
;lengthwise and crosswise
6    Mushrooms, dried; cut in
;thin slices
1/4 c  Binegar
1 ts Sugar
1/2 ts Salt
1/4 ts MSG
1 c  Rice, cooked
8 lg Spinach leaves
2    Eggs
3/4 ts Cornstarch
1 ts Sugar
1/8 ts Salt
1 tb Water
1 lg Carrot; cut in half length-
;wise and then cut in 8
;crosswise strips
You can include a slice of sushi, mild flavored egg and vegetable
roll, with either a sukiyaki or tempura dinner.  Spinach leaves are
used in place of nori (seaweed) here.

Cover spinach with 1/2 cup water and 1/4 teaspoon salt and bring
just to a boil.  Remove from heat and drain immediately.  Cool.  Cut
off thick stems.  Beat eggs with cornstarch, sugar, salt, and water
until blended. Pour egg mixture into a well greased 4 inch frying pan
and cook over a medium heat, stirring occasionally.  Cook until eggs
are thick but not dry; cool and cut into 1/2 inch wide strips.
Parboil carrot in 1/4 cup boiling salted water for 7 minutes, drain,
and cool. Parboil string beans in 1/4 cup boiling salted water for 5
minutes, drain, and cool. Soak mushrooms in 1 cup water for 10
minutes. Pour in 1 additional cup of water and simmer for 10 minutes,
drain, and cool. Combine vinegar, sugar, salt, and MSG and bring to a
boil.  Cool.  Mix half of liquid with rice. Dip fingers in remaining
liquid before spreading rice on spinach.

To assemble sushi, make 8 by 12 inch sheet of spinach, with ribs
parallel to ribbing of mat (bamboo mat used to assemble sushi on).
Top with the rice, strips of carrots, cooked egg, string beans, and
mushrooms. Leave 1/3 of the rice uncovered.  Roll up like a jelly
roll and squeeze mat around rolled spinach to shape.  Hold the mat
loosely, tap on table. Sushi works down inside mat tube and end seals
as it hits the table. Then tap the opposite end of the tube on the
table so the sushi seals completely. Let sushi stand in refrigerator
several hours before serving. Cut in 1 inch thick slices and serve
cold.

Cooked small shrimp, sliced in half, may be substituted for egg in
sushi filing.

Source: "A Sunset Book": Cooking with a Foreign Accent  circa '58
MMed by: earl.cravens@salata.com
Submitted By EARL CRAVENS   On   10-04-94

