Title: Zucchini Loaf with Garden Herbs
Categories: French, Herbs/spice, Main dish, Vegetarian
Yield: 6 servings
6    Chive stalks; chopped
1 tb Bread crumbs
1 pn Grated nutmeg
Salt and pepper; to taste
6    Eggs
1 c  Heavy cream
6    Zucchini
-- (abt. 1 1/4 lbs. total)
1 tb Olive oil
1 c  Chopped fresh basil
1    Sprig tarragon
-- leaves chopped
MMMMM------------------------TOMATO SAUCE-----------------------------
3    Garlic cloves
Handful of fresh thyme
1    Bay leaf
4    Fresh basil leaves
1    Sprig fresh parsley
Salt and pepper; to taste
1/4 c  Olive oil
2    To 2 1/2 lbs. tomatoes
-- peeled, seeded
-- cut in small dice
-or-
2 lb Can tomatoes
1    Onion; finely chopped
MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
Basil leaves
To make sauce, heat the oil in a heavy pan.  Add the tomatoes, onion,
garlic and herbs.  Season with salt and pepper.  Reduce heat to low,
cover and cook gently for about 50 minutes.

Preheat the oven to 475 F.

While the sauce is cooking, prepare the loaf.  Trim the ends from the
zucchini and cut them into large dice.  In a large pan, heat the oil,
add the zucchini, and cook for 10 minutes.  Stir in the basil,
tarragon and chives.  Simmer gently 10 minutes more; the zucchini
should be barely cooked.  Stir in the bread crumbs and season to
taste with nutmeg, salt and pepper.

In a bowl, beat the eggs and cream together until thoroughly blended.
Stir in the zucchini mixture.  Butter a 9x5x3" loaf pan and pour in
the zucchini mixture.  Set the pan in a larger pan and fill halfway
up the sides with hot water.  Bake for 30 to 35 minutes, or until the
loaf is set.

Carefully unmold the zucchini loaf onto a cutting board.  Spoon the
tomato sauce on a long platter.  Cut the loaf in thin slices and
arrange them on the warm tomato sauce.  Garnish with several fresh
basil leaves.

The authors write: "Stephanie Demery leads a double life.  By day she
is in charge of product design at Soleiado, the famous manufacturer
of classic Provencal fabrics founded by her husband, Charles.  At
night she watches over her restaurant, Le Cafe des Artistes, in
Avignon, where the menu offers a lightened version of traditional
Provencal cuisine. The same careful attention is lavished on meals
prepared at home.

"'I've always eaten well,' says Stephanie of her interest in food.
'I grew up in Provence and my mother was an excellent cook.  I like
to eat well, too, so I entertain often.  The meals are fetes.'  One
day to pass the time she decided to gather her recipes together for a
book, something friends had been suggesting she do for a long time.
When her recipe collection was mentioned in an "Elle" magazine
interview, an offer came from a publisher within days.

"The resulting book, _La Cuisine Provencale Traditionnelle_,
concentrates on the authentic cuisine Stephanie prefers.  'It's a
cuisine of olive oil and little or no butter,' she notes.  'Provence
is a magic region where you can find all the vegetables, fish, and
herbs you want. When you're Provencal, you know each herb has a
definite purpose - thyme, savory, and fennel are good for grilling,
for example - and that you can't mix strong herbs like rosemary and
sage.' Lavender, rarely used for cooking in other parts of France, is
popular in Provencal kitchens. Says Stephanie, 'Lavender with
chocolate is sublime.'"

From Stephanie Demery of Le Cafe des Artistes restaurant/Avignon,
France in "Cooking with Herbs" by Emelie Tolley and Chris Mead.  New
York: Clarkson N. Potter, Inc., 1989.  Pg. 214.  Posted by Cathy
Harned. Submitted By CATHY HARNED   On   10-08-94

