Title: CHEESE RAREBIT (USDA)
Categories: Freezes wel, Usda
Yield: 24 Servings
3/4 c  Butter or margarine
3/4 c  Flour -- unsifted
3/4 ts Salt
3/4 ts Dry mustard
1/8 ts Paprika
1 1/4 qt Hot milk
2 1/2 lb Processed cheddar cheese --
Shredded
Line four 8x8-inch baking pans with heat-resistant freezer wrap. Allow
enough extra wrap to fold over top. Use one pan for each six servings
or one-fourth of the recipe. Do not line pans for food to be served
without freezing.

Melt butter in a large sauce pan.  Stir in flour and seasonings. Add
hot milk slowly.  Cook until thickened, stirring constantly. Add
cheese; stir until cheese is melted.

TO SERVE WITHOUT FREEZING:  Serve over hot toast.

TO FREEZE:  Pour each part to be frozen into a baking pan. Cool for 30
minutes at room temperature. Complete wrapping by pulling paper up
over top of food. Put edges of wrap together and fold several times
so paper lies directly on top of food.  Fold ends of freezer wrap
over the top and seal with freezer tape. Label with name of food,
date of freezing, and last date the food should be used for best
eating quality (about 6 months). Freeze immediately for 10 to 12
hours before removing packages from the pans.

TO HEAT FROZEN SAUCE:  Preheat oven to 350B0 F. (moderate). Remove
freezer wrap.  Place food in baking pan. Heat 45 minutes or until
bubbly at edges. Stir occasionally during heating. After heating,
stir until rarebit is smooth.  If rarebit is too thick, thin with hot
milk. Serve over hot toast.

~ - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

Serving Ideas : Serve over hot toast.

NOTES : This recipe is for 24 servings (about 1/3 cup each).
Directions are given for dividing the prepared food into four parts
of six servings each. One part may be completely cooked and served at
the time of preparation. The remaining parts may be frozen.

"Freezing Combination Main Dishes"  by Meredith Robinson and Lois
Fulton (Consumer and Food Economics Institute, Agriculture Research
Service) USDA Home and Garden Bulletin No. 40, 1973 (Stock Number
0100-02712). MasterCook electronic format by Rosie Winters. Recipe By
: Freezing Combination Main Dishes (Robinson & Fulton, 1973)

