Title: CHEESE & POBLANO QUESADILLAS
Categories: Mexico, Main dish
Yield: 6 Servings
1 1/2 c  Grated manchego cheese
1 c  Grated panela cheese
1/2 c  Grated cotija cheese
6    Flour tortillas
1/2 c  Chipotle salsa (optional)
4    Poblano chiles, roasted,
-peeled, seeded & julienned
2 tb Unsalted butter, melted
In a bowl, mix together the cheeses.

Lay the tortillas on a counter. Divide the cheese mix into 6 portions
and spread over half of each tortilla. If desired, sprinkle about a
tablespoon of salsa over each. Arrange the chile strips evenly over
the cheese. Fold the tortillas over to enclose the filling and brush
the tops with butter.

Preheat the oven to 350øF.

Place a dry griddle or cast-iron skillet over medium-high heat. Place
the tortillas buttered side down in the pan. Cook until very light
golden,a bout 1 minute. Then brush the uncoated sides with butter and
flip over. Cook until golden, and transfer to a baking sheet. When
all the quesa- dillas are cooked, transfer the baking sheet to the
oven and bake 10 min- utes, until the cheese begins to ooze.

Serve hot, whole or cut into wedges.

NOTE: Manchego Cheese: There are two kinds of manchego used in mexican
cooking - and neither is the high-priced Spanish variety sold in
upscale cheese shops. There is a hard variety (called viejo) and a
soft, semifirm, golden one that is an excellent melter. The soft one
is used most often for cooking. Monterey Jack or muenster can be
substituted.

Anejo Cheese: Also known as Cotija, is a salty, crumbly white cheese,
similar to feta in appearance. Romano or washed and dried feta are
good substitutes.

Panela Cheese: is a mild, milky-tasting, fresh white cheese often
sold in rounds. A ricotta, farmer's or dry cottage cheese can be
substituted.

The reason Mary Sue and Susan like to use one part manchego, one part
panella and one-half part anejo is because they give a greater
texture and flavor than just one cheese, but is not a hard-and-fast
rule. They both say to go right ahead and use whatever you happen to
have in the kitchen, or experiment and come up with you own cheese
mix.

SOURCE: Mesa Mexican by Mary Sue Milliken and Susan Feniger with
Helena Siegel.

