Title: CHEESE-FRIED CHICKEN BREASTS
Categories: Poultry, Main dish
Yield: 4 Servings
1/2 c  Flour
Flour for dusting chicken
4 oz Dark beer or stout
2    Egg whites
1/2 ts Salt; or as desired
1/4 ts Ground black pepper
1 lg Onion; finely diced
1 tb Cooking oil
6    Plum tomatoes; -=OR=-
-Canned peeled tomatoes,
- drained
2    Dried poblano chili peppers
-=OR=-
1 tb -Chili powder
1 ts Ground cumin
1/4 c  Whipping cream
2 lg Boneless chicken breasts
- split
4 sl Sharp jack or Cheddar cheese
Salt and pepper
1/2 c  Frying oil
PLACE FLOUR IN A MIXING BOWL and slowly pour in the beer while
mixing. Add the egg white, pepper and desired salt and mix well.
Taste for salt and pepper and add if desired. Cover the bowl and set
aside for 30 minutes before using. Combine onions and oil in a small
Dutch oven or casserole, place in the oven and turn temperature to
375F. If using fresh plum tomatoes, bring a pot of water to the boil,
plunge in the plum tomatoes and cook a minute or so, until the skins
crack. Drain tomatoes and when they are cool enough to handle, peel
them. Discard peels, cut tomatoes in half crosswise and squeeze out
seeds. Add tomatoes to the Dutch oven. Remove stems from the dried
chili peppers and remove the seeds. Add peppers to the Dutch oven.
Add cumin, cream and salt as desired. Cook 30 minutes, remove from
the oven and scrape the contents into a blender or food processor.
Blend until smooth and set aside. Meanwhile, place a piece of cheese
under the skin of each breast, dredge each breast in flour and shake
off the excess. Heat the oil in a heavy skillet over medium heat on
the stove. When the oil is hot enough for frying (350F), dip each
breast in the beer batter and let the excess run off. Place skin-side
down in the oil and fry until golden. Turn and fry other side, about
1 minute per side. Remove breasts from the oil as they are done,
drain on paper towels and transfer to a baking dish. Place the
chicken breasts in a preheated 375F oven for 15 minutes. Place tomato
sauce in a saucepan and reheat. (If the mixture is too thin, place it
in a saucepan over high heat and boil down.) Pour the sauce onto a
platter and arrange the chicken breasts on top.

