Title: CHEESECAKE - PIKE
Categories: Cheesecakes
Yield: 1 Servings
500 g  Graham cracker crumbs
100 g  Melted butter
20 g  White sugar
2 1/2 ml Ground cinnamon
700 g  Cream cheese
150 g  Sugar
3    Eggs
60 ml Lemon juice
10 ml Grated lemon rind
10 ml Vanilla
500 ml Sour cream
30 g  Sugar
5 ml Vanilla
100 g  Sugar
25 ml Cornstarch
1 ml Salt
170 ml Water
75 ml Lemon juice
1    Egg yolk -- WELL BEATEN.
15 g  Butter
1.  Preheat oven to 175 øC . Combine crust ingredients. Press crust on
bottom and sides of buttered 25 cm springform pan. Bake 5 minutes, and
cool.

2.  Beat cheese until soft. Add sugar and blend well. Add eggs, one
at a time, beating well after each. Mix in the lemon rind and the
vanilla, and add to the mixture. Pour into the pre-baked crust, and
bake 35 minutes.

3.  Combine topping ingredients, spread on top of cheesecake, and
return to oven immediately. Bake 10-12 minutes and remove from oven.

4.  Combine dry glaze ingredients; add liquid glaze ingredients. Cook
over low heat until thick. Add 15 g of butter. Cool, and spread this
glaze on the cake before the glaze thickens too much.

Author's Notes: This is from a dessert-chef friend of a regular-chef
friend, and apparently won some award. I've had cheesecakes that I
think are more impressive (including one I can make), but I think I'm
something of a cheesecake connoisseur.  If I want to blow people's
socks off, this is the one I cook. I think that every time I've
served it to a new group, at least one person has said ``That was the
best cheesecake I've ever had.''

Some pointers: this is the traditional crust, but I often use a more
floury-baked-pie-crust-like one. It's not too critical. The magic to
getting the texture perfect is in howyou beat the cheese. I use a
kitchen aid, work slowly, scrape the bowl often, and ALWAYS USE ROOM
TEMPERATURE EVERYTHING. Using cold cream cheese guarantees lumps.
Don't beat too hard before putting in the sugar, but make sure it's
even and fluffy before the eggs go in. Then again, don't overbeat. It
takes practice. I've been known to make it with no sugar or vanilla
in the topping, and I think it's more interesting. but the contrast
between the layers may confuse those accustomed to restaurant
cheesecakes. The glaze is easy as glazes go, but treat it properly.
In particular, stir constantly until it's thick, but don't stir hard
or you'll break down the starch.

Difficulty    : rather difficult (timing is critical.) Precision
: measure carefully.

: Rob Pike, research!rob AT&T Bell Laboratories, Murray
Recipe By
Hill,

