Title: CHEESECAKE TO LIVE FOR   (2 OF 2)
Categories: Cheesecakes
Yield: 16 Servings
-Dottie Cross TMPJ72B
DIRECTIONS
To make crust: Position rack in the center of the oven and preheat
oven to 350 degrees. Coat a 9- or 10-inch springform pan with
nonstick cooking spray.
In a medium-sized bowl, stir together crumbs, cereal and oil. Press
into the bottom of the prepared pan and set aside.
To make filling: Place cottage cheese in a fine sieve and press down
on it with a wooden spoon to drain off liquid. Put the pressed
cottage cheese in a food processor and process until smooth. Add
yogurt cheese, cream cheese, sugar, eggs, egg whites, cornstarch,
vanilla, lemon zest and lemon juice and process until smooth. Spoon
the mixture over the crust. Set the pan on a baking sheet and bake
until just set, 40 to 45 minutes for a 10-inch cake or 50 to 55
minutes for a 9-inch cake. remove from the oven and let stand at room
temperature fo 15 minutes. Retain oven temperature at 350 degrees.
To make topping: In a small bowl, stir together yogurt cheese,
sugar, and vanilla. Spoon over the baked cheesecake, starting at the
center and extending to within 1/2 inch of the edge. Return the
cheesecake to the oven and bake for 5 minutes longer. Let cool on a
rack. Cover and refrigerate for at least 12 hours or for up to 3 days.
To glaze cheesecake: Using a sharp knife, remove skin and white pith
from oranges and discard. Cut segments away from their surrounding
membranes and reserve. In a small saucepan, melt apricot preserves
over low heat. Remove from the heat and stir in orange liqueur. With
a pastry brush, brush about half of the apricot preserves mixture
over top of the chilled cheesecake. Arrange kiwi fruit, orange
segments and strawberries decoratively over top. Brush the remaining
apricot preserves mixture over the fruit.
Serves 16. 322 calories, 6 grams fat, 271 mg sodium, 36 mg
cholesterol. Was: 413 calories, 32 grams fat,
248 mg sodium, 135 mg cholesterol.
Reformatted by: CLM, HCPM52C

