Title: CHEWY CHOCOLATE CHIP COOKIES
Categories: Cookies
Yield: 5 Dozen
2 c  Butter
2 c  Sugar (granulated,
-white)
2 c  Brown sugar
-(dark brown)
4 lg Eggs
2 ts Vanilla extract
4 c  Flour (sift
-before measuring)
5 c  Rolled oats (oatmeal),
-powdered finely
1 ts Salt
2 ts Baking soda
2 ts Baking powder
24 oz Chocolate chips
-(being a purist,
-I prefer Toll House
-morsels)
8 oz Chocolate bar,
-finely grated
3 c  Chopped nuts
-(I prefer walnuts,
-but use your favorite)
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F.  Cream together the butter and the
sugars.

Sift together flour, oatmeal, salt, baking soda, baking powder and
shredded chocolate bar.  Add eggs and vanilla to creamed sugar and
butter, then mix all ingredients together. Mix chocolate chips and
nuts into mixture.

Drop by onto ungreased cookie sheet in small drops. Bake 6 minutes or
until done.

NOTES:

*  Chocolate Chip Cookies like Mrs. Fields makes -- These cookies are
a combination of oatmeal and chocolate chip. They are very rich, but
very tasty. The recipe was obtained from a friend of a friend, who
supposedly paid a large amount of money for it. However, the cookies
do not taste exactly the same as the name brand. Yield: approximately
60.

*  A blender works very well to powder the oats and the chocolate
bar. The blender chops the oatmeal finer than a food processor. The
powdered chocolate bar should melt at the touch of your fingers.

*  I prefer my cookies just barely done, so that they remain chewy.
If you want to send your taste buds into heaven, butter the cookies
as they come out of the oven (still hot), and eat them still warm
with a glass of cold milk.

*  Note that cocoa is not the same thing as a shredded chocolate bar.
Note also that oatmeal is not the same thing as quick-cooking oats or
instant oatmeal. Oatmeal means "rolled oats," such as Quaker oats.

: Difficulty:  easy to moderate.
: Time:  30 minutes.
: Precision:  measure the ingredients.

: Sam Spitzner
: Illinois Bell, Chicago, Illinois
: Email address:  ihnp4!ilunix!sks
: Snail address:  225 W.  Randolph, HQ17B, Chicago, Il. 60606

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

