Title: CHICKEN & ANDOUILLE SMOKED SAUSAGE GUMBO
Categories: Cajun, Chicken, Sausage, Gumbo
Yield: 6 Servings
3 lb Chicken, cut up
Salt
Garlic powder
Ground red pepper (cayenne)
1 c  Onions, finely chopped
1 c  Green bell peppers, finechop
3/4 c  Celery, finely chopped
1 1/4 c  All purpose flour
1/2 ts Salt
1/2 ts Garlic powder
1/2 ts Ground Red pepper (cayenne)
Vegetable oil for deep fry
7 c  Chicken stock, more or less
1/2 lb Andouille smoked sausage-OR
- other good smoked pork
- sausage, e.g. Kielbasa.
- cut into 1/4 inch cubes.
1 ts Minced garlic
Serve over hot rice
Remove excess fat from the chicken pieces.  Rub a generous amount of
salt, garlic powder and red pepper on both sides of each piece,
making sure each is evenly covered. Let stand at room temperature for
30 minutes.

Meanwhile, in a medium size bowl combine the onions, bell peppers and
celery; set aside.

Combine the flour, 1/2 teaspoon salt, 1/2 teaspoon garlic powder and
1/2 teaspoon red pepper in a paper or plastic bag. Add the chicken
pieces and shake until chicken is well coated. Reserve 1/2 cup of the
flour.

In a large heavy skillet heat 1 1/2 inches of oil until very hot (375
to 400 degree).  Fry the chicken until crust is brown on both sides
and meat is cooked, about 5 to 8 minutes per side; drain on paper
towels. Carefully pour the hot oil into a glass measuring cup,
leaving as many of the browned particles in the pan as possible.
Scrape the pan bottom with a metal whisk to loosen any stuck
particles, then return 1/2 cup of the hot oil to the pan.

Place pan over high heat.  Using a long handled metal whisk,
gradually stir in the reserved 1/2 cup flour. Cook, whisking
constantly, until roux is dark red brown to black, about 3 1/2 to 4
minutes, being careful not to let it scorch or splash on your skin.
Remove from heat and immediately add the reserved vegetable mixture,
stirring constantly until the roux stops getting darker.  Return pan
to low heat and cook until vegetabvles are soft, about 5 minutes,
stirring constantly and scraping the pan bottom well.

Meanwhile, place the stock in a 5 1/2 quart saucepan or large Dutch
oven. Bring to a boil.  Add roux mixture by spoonfuls to the boiling
stock, stirring until dissolved between each addition. Return to a
boil, stirring and scraping pan bottom often.  Reduce heat to a
simmer and stir in the andouille and minced garlic. Simmer uncovered
for about 45 minutes, stirring often towards the end of cooking time.

While the gumbo is simmering, bone the cooked chicken and cut the
meat into 1/2 inch dice.  When the gumbo is cooked, stir in the
chicken and adjust seasoning with salt and pepper. Serve immediately.

To serve as a main course, mound 1/3 cup cooked rice in the center of
a soup bowl; ladle about 1 1/4 cups gumbo around the rice. For an
appetizer, place 1 heaping teaspoon cooked rice in a cup and ladle
3/4 cup gumbo on top.

Typed by Dale & Gail Shipp, Columbia Md.

