Title: CHICKEN & LINGUICA GUMBO
Categories: None
Yield: 8 Servings
1 lb Linguica sausage, cut in
-1/4-inch-thick rounds
Vegetable oil
1    (2 1/2- to 3 1/2-pound)
-chicken, cut in pieces
Salt and freshly ground
-black pepper to taste
1/2 c  Flour plus 6 tablespoons
-flour
1 1/2 c  (about 2 bunches) finely
-chopped green onions,
-green and
White parts
1 c  Finely chopped celery
1/2 c  Finely chopped green pepper
1/4 c  Finely chopped parsley
3    Garlic cloves, minced
9 c  Chicken stock
Cayenne pepper and/or
-Tabasco sauce to taste
2    To 6 teaspoons file powder,
-according to taste
4 c  Hot, freshly cooked rice
Finely chopped green onions
-for garnish
Cook the sausage in a large, heavy ungreased skillet over low heat,
turning the slices frequently with a spatula until there is a film of
fat over the bottom of the pan.

Increase the heat to medium and, turning the slices occasionally,
continue to fry the sausage until the slices are browned, about 6
minutes. Remove the sausage to paper towels to drain. Add vegetable
oil to the fat in the skillet to a depth of 1/2 inch.

Season the chicken pieces with salt and pepper.  Place 1/2 cup of the
flour on a plate.  Dredge the chicken pieces in the flour and shake
of the excess.

Heat the oil in the skillet over medium-high heat. fry the chicken
pieces in the hot fat until they are golden brown on both sides and
the eat is cooked through, about 12 to 15 minutes per side. Remove
the chicken from the skillet and drain on paper towels. Reserve 6
tablespoons of fat from the skillet an discard the rest. Whisk the
reserved 6 tablespoons fat with the remaining 6 tablespoons of flour
in a large, heavy pot until smooth. Cook, stirring frequently, over
medium heat until the fat-flour mixture (called a roux) is nut brown.
This will take several minutes. Do not allow the roux to burn.

Add the green onions, celery, green pepper, parsley and garlic to the
roux. Cook the mixture, stirring over medium-low heat until the
vegetables have softened.  Then, stirring constantly, slowly add the
chicken stock. Bring the mixture to a boil, then reduce the heat. Add
the sausage to the gumbo. Season to taste with salt, pepper, cayenne
and/or Tabasco sauce. Simmer, uncovered, for 30 minutes, stirring
occasionally.

While gumbo is simmering, bone the cooked chicken and, using your
fingers, shred the meat into pieces.  Add to the gumbo and simmer for
15 minutes longer, stirring occasionally.

NOTE:  The gumbo tastes best if prepared a day or two in advance and
refrigerated.  Let the gumbo cool completely at room temperature,
uncovered, before refrigerating. Reheat over medium-low heat, stirring
occasionally.

Just before serving, remove the gumbo from the heat. Taste for
seasoning++it should be spicy.  Stir in the file powder to taste.
(Note: File powder turns stringy as it cooks, so it should not be
added to the gumbo until the pot has been removed from the heat.)

Transfer the gumbo to a heated tureen and serve it immediately,
accompanied by a bowl of rice.  To serve, place about 1/2 cup rice to
one side of a heated soup plate.. Ladle the gumbo around the rice and
garnish each serving with a sprinkle of finely chopped green onions.

Serves 8.

San Francisco Chronicle, date unknown.

Posted by Stephen Ceideburg; February 27 1991.

