Title: BLUEBERRY LATTICE PIE
Categories:
Yield: 1 Servings
Sweet Dough for a 2 crust
Pie
Filling:
2 pt Blueberries -- rinsed,
Drained and
Picked over
3/4 c  Sugar
3 tb Cornstarch
3 tb Water
1 ts Finely grated lemon zest
1/2 ts Ground cinnamon
1/4 ts Freshly grated nutmeg
2 tb Unsalted butter
Egg Wash: 1 egg well beaten
With a pinch
Salt
1 ts Sugar for finishing the top
The pie -- optional
One 9 inch Pyrex pie pan
Prepare and chill the dough. To make the filling, combine 1 cup of the
blueberries with the sugar in a nonreactive saucepan. Bring to a
simmer over low heat, stirring occasionally, until the sugar is
melted and the mixture is very liquid about 5 minutes. Combine the
cornstarch and water in a small bowl and whisk the blueberry and
sugar mixture into it. Return everything to the pan and cook,
stirring constantly, over low heat, until the mixture comes to a
boil, thickens and becomes clear. If it does not become clear,
continue to cook over low heat for a few more minutes, until it does.
Pour into a large bowl and stir in the remaining filling ingredients,
except the blueberries, then add the remaining 3 cups blueberries.
Cool. Set a rack at the upper and lower thirds of the oven and
preheat to 400 degrees. Roll out the bottom crust and arrange in pan.
Pour the cooled filling into the bottom crust. Prepare a lattice top
crust. Flute the edge of the pie and carefully brush it with egg
wash. If you wish, sprinkle the top of the pie with sugar. Place the
pie in the oven on the lower rack and reduce the temperature to 375
degrees. Bake for about 40 minutes, until the crust is baked through
and a deep golden brown and the filling is gently bubbling. If the
top crust has not colored sufficiently after 30 minutes of baking,
move the pie to the upper rack of the oven for the last 10 minutes.
Cool the pie on a rack. Yield: one 9-inch pie

Variation:  top with Almond Crumble topping.

: BAKERS' DOZEN (NICK MALGIERI) SHOW #BD1A18
Recipe By

Date: Tue, 15 Oct 1996 20:20:24
~0500

