Title: BOW TIES WITH WHITE BEANS~ ARUGULA & SUN-DR
Categories: Italian/tus, Main dishes, Pasta
Yield: 4 Servings
1/4 lb Dried cannellini or Great
Northern beans  -- about 1/2
Cup
3    Cloves garlic, 1 left whole,
2    Minced
1 ts Dried thyme
2    Bay leaves
1 1/2 ts Salt
3 tb Olive oil
1    Onion -- chopped
2    Sun-dried tomatoes --
Chopped
1/4 ts Red pepper flakes
3/4 lb Bow ties
3/4 lb Arugula, stems removed --
Chopped
1/4 c  Grated Parmesan cheese
1 tb Red-wine vinegar
In a medium saucepan, soak the beans overnight in plenty of water. Or
cover the beans with water. Bring to a boil. Remove the pan from the
heat and let the beans soak for 1 hour.

Drain the beans.  Return them to the saucepan and add cold water to
cover by 2 inches. Add the whole garlic clove, the thyme and bay
leaves. Simmer the beans, partially covered, until almost tender,
about 1 hour. Add 1/2 teaspoon of the salt and cook the beans until
tender, about 15 minutes longer. Drain. Discard the garlic clove and
bay leaves.

In a large frying pan, heat the oil over moderately low heat. Add the
minced garlic and the onion and cook, stirring occasionally, until the
onion is translucent, about 5 minutes. Add the beans, sun-dried
tomatoes, red-pepper flakes and the remaining 1 teaspoon salt. Cook
until the beans and tomatoes are heated through, about 2 minutes.

In a large pot of boiling, salted water, cook the bow ties until just
done, about 15 minutes.  Reserve about 2 tablespoons of the pasta
water. Drain the bow ties and return them to the hot pot. Add the
bean mixture, pasta water, arugula, Parmesan and vinegar and toss.

Beans and Salt: Salt and acidic ingredients, such as tomatos and
vinegar, make it difficult for dried beans to absorb liquid. This
means that dried beans must always be cooked until soft in unseasoned
water. Otherwise, they remain tough.  But don't forget the salt
completely. When the beans are almost done, season them for optimum
flavor.

: Food & Wine
Recipe By

Date: Mon, 15 Jul 1996 14:00:51
From: Hp_walls@woco.Ohio.Gov
~0400 (

