Title: BRACIOLE IL+++FGGT98B
Categories: Meats, Beef, Italian
Yield: 4 Servings
1    (2 to 2-1/2 lb) round steak
Butterflied
1    Lemon's grated rind
Salt and pepper
2 1/2 ts Oregano
1/4 lb Prosciutto,thinly sliced
2 c  Bread crumbs
1/4 lb Parmigiano-reggiano
Cheese, grated
1/2 c  Chopped parsely
1/2 ts Rosemary
1/2 c  Flour
1/4 c  Olive oil
4    Cl Garlic,finely chopped
1    Sm Onion, diced
1/2 c  Dry red wine
2 c  Chopped, canned pear
Tomatoes with their juice
PIKE STREET, SEATTLE WINE: BAROLO, CAVALOTTO, 1971 1.Open the
butterflied steak and, with waxed paper covering it, pound evenly
with a meat mallet until approximately 1/4 inch thick. Rub the lemon
rind, salt, pepper, and 1-1/2 Tsp. oregano into the meat. 2.Lay the
prosciutto slices evenly on the steak. Sprinkle the bread crumbs,
grated Parmesan, & parsley evenly over the prosciutto slices. Roll
the braciole tightly, taking care while rolling to tuck in both ends
so as to hold in the filling while cooking. Tie the roll with strings
at 1-1/2 to 2 in. intervals. 3.Rub the rosemary between your palms to
break it up. Season the flour with the rosemary, remaining oregano,
and salt and pepper. Rub this mixture onto the surface of the beef
roll. 4.In a pan large enough to hold the roll, heat the olive oil
over moderately high heat. Add the beef roll, turning to brown the
entire sur- face. 5.Add the garlic and onion and cook until the
garlic begins to turn golden brown.

Add the wine and cook for one minute. 6.Add the tomatoes with their
juice and salt & pepper to taste. Cover the pan and simmer over low
heat for 1 to 1-1/2 hours or until very tender when pierced with a
fork. If liquid app- ears to be diminishing during the cooking,
splash a bit more wine into the pan. 7.Remove from pan & place on a
heated platter. Remove the strings, cut into 1/2 in. thick sli- ces,
pour the tomato mixture over the slices and serve. Note: If serving
cold, place the braciole on a platter, pour the sauce over it, cover
tightly with plastic wrap or foil, and refrigerate. Before serving,
bring to room temperature, remove the strings, and cut into slices as
mentioned previously. The slices can be served on a bed of lettuce,
accompanied by freshly baked bread.

