Title: BREAKFAST BISCUITS & GRAVY
Categories: Breads, Breakfast
Yield: 4 Servings
1 3/4 c  Unbleached all-purpose flour
2 ts Baking powder
1 ts Salt
4 tb (1/2 stick) unsalted butter,
-chilled
1/3 c  Plain yogurt
1/2 c  (+2 Tbsp) milk
-!!!-FOR THE SAUSAGES-!!!-
1 1/2 lb Pork sausage
1 1/2 tb Minced fresh sage leaves, or
-1 t. dried
1/4 ts Salt
Freshly ground black pepper
1/2 ts Paprika
1/4 ts Ground allspice
-!!!-FOR THE GRAVY-!!!-
3 ts 3 tsp
Unsalted butter, or as
-needed
3 tb All-purpose flour
2 1/4 c  Milk
Salt and freshly ground
-black pepper
-!!!-GARNISH WITH-!!!-
2 ts Fresh sage leaves
1.  Preheat the oven to 425F.  Cover a baking sheet with a piece of
parchment paper.

2.  Make the biscuits:  sift the flour, baking powder, and salt
together into a large bowl.  Using two knives or a pastry blender,
cut in the butter until the texture rangers from cornmeal to the size
of small peas. (These two steps can be done quickly in a food
processor.) Using a fork, gradually mix in the yogurt, then the milk,
until the dough is quite soft and somewhat sticky.  Work quickly
without overworking the dough. Turn it out onto a lightly floured
surface and knead it briefly, just long enough to get it to hold
together. Roll it out so it is about 1 1/4 inches thick, and cut it
into 2 inch rounds. (You will have 10 biscuits.) Arrange the rounds
on the prepared baking sheet, and bake in the center of the oven
until they are deep golden, puffed and cooked through, 18 to
20    minutes.

3.  While the biscuits are baking, prepare the sausages: place all the
sausage ingredients in a large bowl and mix thoroughly, using your
fingers. To test the seasoning, fry a tiny patty and taste; adjust if
necessary.

4.  Place the patties in a large heavy or nonstick skillet over
medium-high heat, and cook until they are crisp and brown on the
outside and cooked through inside, about 8 minutes per side. Transfer
the sausage patties to a warmed platter and keep warm.

5.  Make the gravy:  Add enough of the butter to the skillet so the
bottom is covered with 1/8 inch of fat. Stir, scraping up the browned
bits from the bottom of the skillet. Reduce the heat to medium and
add the flour slowly, stirring until it has absorbed the butter.
Cook, stirring constantly, until it turns golden brown, at least 2
minutes. Then slowly pour in the milk, stirring constantly, and cook
until the gravy thickens to the consistency of very heavy cream.
Season to taste with salt and a generous amount of black pepper.

6.  To serve, split two biscuits in half.  Place the bottom halves on
a warm plate, top them with sausage patties, and pour a generous
amount of gravy over the sausage. Mince the fresh sage and sprinkle
some over the sausage and gravy.  Set the biscuit tops at an angle,
partially covering the sausages and serve immediately.

4 servings (with extra biscuits).

