Title: BREAKFAST CLAFOUTIS
Categories: Breads, Breakfast
Yield: 1 Servings
Fruit (prepared weight) 4 to
-6 oz. blueberries,
-raspberries, or cranberries
-or 12 oz. (approx.)
-cherries, peaches, or plums
Zest from 1 small lemon,
-grated
2 tb Sugar, plus additional to
-sweeten fruit
1/2 c  Unbleached all-purpose flour
1/4 ts Salt
2    Eggs, any size
1 c  Milk (low-fat, if desired)
1 tb Unsalted butter
Confectioners' sugar
Sour cream (optional)
Preheat the oven to 425.  Wash and prepare the fruit. Cherries should
be stemmed and, if desired, pitted. Plums or peaches should be pitted
and cut into bite-sized pieces; commercial cranberries should be cut
in half; small wild cranberries, blueberries, or raspberries need
only be picked over to remove stem pieces and debris.

Make lemon sugar by mixing the lemon zest with the 2 tablespoons
sugar in a small dish.  In a large bowl, sift together the flour and
salt. In a small bowl, beat the eggs gently and whisk in the milk.
Add the wet to the dry ingredients a little at a time, whisking
smooth. Stir in the lemon sugar. Let the batter rest while the fruit
is being cooked.

In a 10-inch nonstick skillet, melt the butter over medium heat,
coating the bottom and the sides halfway to the rim. When the butter
is bubbling, add the fruit. Stir until each piece has softened and is
coated with butter, about 2-3 minutes.  Then sprinkle in sugar to
sweeten. We use about 2 T of granulated sugar for all fruit except
cranberries (which require about twice as much) and peaches (where we
prefer brown sugar). When this sugar has dissolved and turned into a
syrup--about 2 minutes--stir up the batter and scrape it carefully
into the pan over the fruit. Put the skillet into the oven to bake
for about 20 minutes. At this point the clafoutis will be set, golden
brown, and puffed up at the edges. Divide into warmed bowls, sift a
little confectioners' sugar over each, and top if you like with a
spoonful of sour cream.

from Outlaw Cook, by John Thorne with Matt Lewis Thorne

