Title: BISCOTTI DI PRATO (LITTLE ALMOND COOKIES)
Categories: Desserts, Cookies, Italian
Yield: 8 Servings
2 oz Almonds, blanched
6 oz Almonds, unblanched
4 c  Unbleached all-purpose flour
1 3/4 c  Granulated sugar
3    Extra-large eggs
1 pn Salt
1 pn Ground saffron
1 ts (scant) baking soda
1    Extra-large egg white
Preheat the oven to 375F.  Place both the blanched and unblanched
almonds on a cookie sheet and toast in the preheated oven for 15
minutes, until golden brown. Grind 4 ounces of mixed blanched and
unblanched almonds very fine, then cut the remaining toasted almonds
into two or three pieces each. Place the flour on a pasta board in a
mound and make a well in the center. Put the sugar and eggs in the
well. Mix the sugar and eggs together well, then add the salt,
saffron, and baking soda. Mix thoroughly and when all the ingredients
in the well are well integrated, incorporate the flour little by
little, until all but about 2 tablespoons is incorporated. Set the
leftover flour aside. Knead the dough for 10 to 15 minutes, then add
the very finely ground almonds and the almond pieces. Knead for 2 to
3 minutes more, incorporating the remaining flour. Divide the dough
into 8 pieces.  With your hands, shape each piece into a long, thin
roll about 3/4 inch in diameter, then place, widely apart on a
buttered and floured cookie sheet.  Beat the egg white slightly in a
small bowl and lightly coat the tops of the 8 rolls with it, using a
pastry brush, then put the baking sheet into the preheated oven for
18 to 20 minutes. Remove the rolls from the oven (they will expand in
size sideways) and cut them with a long slicing knife at a 45-degree
angle every 3/4 inch to get the shape required for this type of
little cookie, or biscotti. Place the biscotti back in the oven, this
time at 275F, for 35 to 45 minutes. They will be very dry. NOTE:
These cookies are much better eaten after 2 or 3 days, when they have
softened a little; keep them in a paper bag. If you wish to keep them
indefinitely, transfer after a week to a jar or can. Serves 8 to 10.

