Title: BLACK BEAN "CASSOULET" SOUP
Categories: Soups, Vegetables
Yield: 16 Servings
2 lb Dried black (turtle) beans
1 1/4 c  Best-quality olive oil
3 c  Diced yellow onions
12    Cloves garlic, crushed
1    Very meaty ham bone or 2
-smoked ham hocks
8 qt Water
3 1/2 tb Ground cumin
2 tb Dried oregano
3    Bay leaves
1 tb Coarse (kosher) salt
1 tb Freshly ground black pepper
1 pn Cayenne pepper
8 tb Chopped fresh Italian
-parsley
1 3/4    To 2 pounds fresh garlic
-sausage
6    Sweet Italian sausage links,
-cut into 1-inch pieces
6    Hot Italian sausage links,
-cut into 1-inch pieces
1 lb Bratwurst, cut into 1-inch
-pieces
3    Medium-size sweet red
-peppers, cored, seeded, and
-diced
1/4 c  Dry sherry
3 tb Dark brown sugar
2 tb Fresh lemon juice
From The Silver Palate Good Times Cookbook.

" Our black bean soup is a Silver Palate staple.  In this recipe we've
dressed it up with lots of hot and garlicky sausages, sweet red
peppers, a bit of brown sugar, and unusual spices. This makes a meal
when served with a crisp, tart green salad."

Sour cream

1.  Soak the black beans in water to cover overnight.

2.  Heat 1 cup of the oil in a large heavy stock pot over low heat.
Add the onions and garlic and saute until the onions are limp, about
10 minutes.

3.  Drain and rinse the beans and add to the stock pot. Add the ham
bone and 6 quarts of the water. Stir in the cumin, oregano, bay
leaves, salt, pepper, cayenne, and 3 tablespoons of the parsely. Heat
to boiling. Reduce heat to medium and cook uncovered at a slow
rolling boil for 2 hours, skimming foam from the top and stirring
occasionally to prevent sticking.

4.  Place the garlic sausage in a medium-size saucepan and add the
remaining 2 quarts water.  Heat to boiling. Reduce heat to low and
simmer for 40 minutes. Drain. Remove casings and cut into 1/2-inch
slices.

5.  Heat the remaining 1/4 cup oil in a large heavy skillet over
medium heat.  Add the Italian sausages and saute until browned.
Remove the sausages with a slotted spoon.

6.  In the same skillet, saute the bratwurst until browned. Remove
with a slotted spoon.

7.  After 2 hours of cooking, process 2 cups of the beans in a food
processor fitted with a steel blade until smooth and return to the
pot. Continue to cook for 30 minutes.

8.  Add all the sausages and the red peppers and cook for another 30
minutes.

9.  Remove the ham bone from the soup, shred the meat and return to
the pot.  Stir in the sherry, sugar, and lemon juice.

10.  Cook over medium heat until the beans are very soft and the soup
is thick, 30 to 45 minutes.  Stir in the remaining 5 tablespoons
chopped parsley.  Taste and adjust seasonings.

11.  Ladle the soup into soup bowls and dollop each serving with sour
cream.

Makes 16 portions.

Posted by Kyosho Connick. Courtesy of Fred Peters.

