Title: BLACK BEAN-GOAT CHEESE ENCHILADAS (WITH MANGO
Categories: Beans, Cheese, Luncheon, Main dishes, Southwester
Yield: 4 Servings
Sauce---
1 c  Chicken stock
10    Tomatillos (husked) --
Rinsed and chopped
4    Cloves garlic
1 c  Onions -- chopped
2    Serrano chiles -- seeded and
Chopped
2 tb Fresh cilantro -- chopped
Salt -- to taste
Filling---
1/4 c  Chicken stock
2 c  Black beans -- cooked
1    Clove garlic -- minced
2    Serrano chiles -- seeded and
Minced
1/2 c  Mango or papaya -- diced
4    Scallions (white part only)
Thinly sliced
1/2 c  Corn kernels -- roasted
8 oz Fresh goat cheese --
Crumbled
Salt -- to taste
Vegetable oil -- to soften
Tortillas
8    Corn tortillas
1 c  Mango Relish (separate
Recipe)
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F.

To make the sauce, in a saucepan, cook the chicken stock, tomatillos,
garlic cloves, onions, and serranos over medium-high heat for 10
minutes, stirring frequently. Transfer the mixture to a blender, add
the cilantro, and puree until smooth. Season with salt and set aside.

To make the filling, in another saucepan, bring all the filling
ingredients except the cheese and salt to a boil. Remove from the
heat, whisk in 4 ounces of the goat cheese, and season with salt.
Deep warm.

Pour enough of the oil in a skillet to come 1/2 inch up the sides.
Over medium heat, bring the oil to 350 degrees F. or just smoking.
(CAUTION: Do This Very Carefully--This is VERY, VERY HOT--) Submerge
the tortillas in the oil one by one for 5 seconds each to soften.
Drain the tortillas on paper towels and keep warm: do not stack the
tortillas.

To assemble the enchiladas, divide the black bean-goat cheese mixture
evenly among the tortillas, spreading evenly down the middle. Roll up
the tortillas and place seam side down on a baking sheet or in an
ovenproof baking dish, placing them snugly together. Pour the
reserved tomatillo sauce over the enchiladas, and top with the
remaining 4 ounces of the goat cheese.  Cover with foil and bake in
the oven for 10 minutes. Serve 2 enchiladas per plate, together with
Mango Relish (separate recipe).

Chef's Notes:  This recipe is included by chef Stephan Pyles in his
cookbook __The New Texas Cuisine__, Doubleday, 1993, ($35.00).

The chef states:  "This recipe was published in _Parade_ magazine in
1987 in an article commissioned by my friend Sheila Lukins...
Although at first glance this combination may not seem very Texan,
one only has to realize that the Gulf Coast is subtropical and that
some of the best goat cheese in the country is made here in Dallas by
the Mozzarella Company." (He's right!)

: Stephan Pyles in __The New Texas Cuisine__
Recipe By

