Title: BLUEBERRY & LEMON CRUMB BARS
Categories: Blueberry, Desserts
Yield: 24 Servings
CRUST--
1 1/2 c  All-purpose flour --
Unbleached
2 tb Sugar
2 ts Grated lemon rind
1/4 ts Salt
1/2 c  Cold butter -- cut in 1/4"
Slices
1 lg Egg yolk
1 ts Vanilla extract
1 tb Cold water -- optional
FILLING--
1/2 c  Sugar
2 tb All-purpose flour --
Unbleached
1/4 ts Freshly ground nutmeg
2 c  Blueberries -- rinsed and
Sorted
TOPPING--
5 tb Soft butter
1/2 c  Packed light brown sugar
3/4 c  All-purpose flour --
Unbleached
Confectioner's sugar
Oven 400F / 200C. Butter is unsalted unless otherwise stated. Lightly
butter a 13- x 9-inch baking pan. TO MAKE THE CRUST: Combine flour,
sugar, lemon zest and salt in the bowl of a food processor. With the
motor running, add pads of cold butter, a few at a time. In a small
cup, stir together the egg yolk and vanilla. With the motor running,
gradually add the yolk mixture; process until the mixture pulls
together. If the mixture seems dry, add some to all of the cold
water. Turn dough out (it will be crumbly) into the prepared pan;
with floured fingertips, carefully press the dough into an even layer
over the bottom of the pan. TO MAKE THE FILLING: In a large bowl,
stir together the sugar, flour and nutmet until blended. Add the
blueberries; stir to coat. Spread the blueberry-sugar mixture into an
even layer over the crust. TO MAKE TOPPING: Work the butter and sugar
together with a wooden spool until blending. Using a fork, gradually
add the flour, stirring until the mixture resembles coarse crumbs.
Sprinkle the mixture evenly over the blueberries. BAKE for 15
minutes. Reduce the oven temperature to 350 degrees, and back for 25
to 30 minutes longer, or until the edges and topping are browned and
the blueberries are cooked. Cool on a wire rack before cutting into
bars. Lightly sprinkle with powdered sugar before serving.

~ - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

NOTES : Marie likes to make these bars in midsummer when the
blueberry crop is at its peak, but frozen berries may be used; the
bars will be a little more moist. As the bars bake, the butter crust,
sugared blueberries and brown-sugar crumb topping melt together. The
result is a just-sweet-enough fruit bar that is perfect with a tall
glass of lemonade or ice tea (or so says Marie, who is a Bon Appetit
columnist and author/editor of several cookbooks.)

: Marie Simmons, Bar Cookies A to Z (1994)
Recipe By

