Title: 4 Way Bars
Categories: Chocolate, Dessert, Fruit, Nuts/grains
Yield: 48 servings
1/4 c  Chopped walnuts or pecans
1/3 c  Creamy peanut butter
1/3 c  Milk chocolate pieces**
1/4 c  Seedless raspberry preserves
1/4 c  Coarsely chopped almonds
1/4 c  Milk chocolate pieces
1/4 c  Coconut
1/4 c  Caramel ice cream topping
1 c  Butter
1 c  Packed brown sugar
1 ea Egg
2 t  Vanilla
2 c  All-purpose flour
3 t  Semisweet chocolate pieces*
1/4 c  Semisweet chocolate pieces
1/4 c  Tiny marshmallows
*Chocolate pieces, melted and cooled. **Coarsely chopped candy-coated
milk chocolate pieces. In a large mixing bowl beat butter with an
electric mixer on medium to high speed for 30 seconds.   Add brown
sugar; beat till fluffy.  Add egg and vanilla.  Beat well.  Stir in
flour. Transfer half of the mixture (about 1-1/4 cups) to
15x10x1-inch baking pan. Pat dough evenly into half the pan
crosswise. Stir melted chocolate into the remaining batter.  Pat
chocolate dough into the remaining half of the pan. Bake in a 350
oven for 15 minutes. Remove from oven. Sprinkle half of the chocolate
crust with 1/4 cup semisweet chocolate pieces; let stand 1 to 2
minutes. When softened, spread chocolate pieces evenly over half
chocolate crust. Sprinkle marshmallows and walnuts or pecans over
melted chocolate; press lightly. Carefully spread peanut butter over
the remaining chocolate crust. Sprinkle with chopped candy-coat
chocolate pieces. Press candy into peanut butter. Spread the
raspberry preserves over half of the plain dough crust. Sprinkle
preserves with almonds. Sprinkle milk chocolate pieces and coconut on
remaining plain crust. Drizzle caramel ice cream topping over
chocolate pieces and coconut. Bake in a 350 oven for 5 minutes more.
Cool in the pan on a wire rack for 10 minutes.  Cut into small
squares. Leave in pan and cool completely on the wire rack.

per serving:
Approx. Cook Time: Cholesterol per
Calories
grams per serving:
serving: Marks:

Submitted By MARY SMITH   On   12-03-94

