Title: Alcohol Substitutes
Categories: Diabetic, Alcohol, Information
Yield: 1 info/help
1    Info/help
KIRSCH:  Syrup or juice from black cherries, raspberries,
boysenberries,
currants, grapes or cherry cider.

COGNAC:  Juice from peaches, apricots or pears.

COINTREAU:  Orange juice, or frozen orange juice concentrate.

CREME DE MENTHE:  Spearmint extract or oil of spearmint diluted with a
little water or grapefruit juice.

RED BURGUNDY: Grape juice

WHITE BURGUNDY:  White grape juice

CHAMPAGNE: Ginger Ale

CLARET: Grape or currant juice, or syrup from cherry cider.

FLAMBE'S OR FLAMING DESSERTS: The only substitute that might be used
is a sugar cube soaded in lemon extract, then set atop a dessert and
burned.

BEER OR ALE:  Chicken broth, white grape juice, or gingerale

BRANDY:   Apple cider, peach or apricot syrup.

RUM:  Pineapple juice or syrup flavored with almond extract.

SHERRY: Orange or pineapple juice.

RED WINE: (unsweet)  water, beef broth, boullion or consome, tomatoe
juice (plain or diluted), diluted cider vinegar, or red wine vinegar,
liquid drained from mushrooms.

WHITE WINE: (unsweet) water, chicken broth, boullion or consome,
ginger ale, white grape juice, diluted cider vinegar or white wine
vinegar, liquid from canned mushrooms.

NOTE***  To cut sweetness of the syrups, dilute with water.  Also use
flavor extracts for interesting flavors.

When alcohol is used in a recipe, it is generally used for one of two
reasons; as a flavor enhancer in cooking, or as a meat tenderizer in
marinades.  A variety of other foods do have the same properties as
alcohol in cooking and marinating and can be easily substituted in
any recipe. Here are a few suggestions:

MARINADES:

Substitute for 1 cup of alcohol with:

1 cup of citrus juice, Lemonade, Pineapple or Orange  Juice.

1/2 cup of fresh lemon juice or orange juice.

1 cup of tomato juice diluted by 1/4 with water or vinegar.

1/2 cup of light soy sauce and 1/2 cup of citrus juice.

1/2 cup of light soy sauce and 2 TBLS of oil.

1 cup of teriyaki sauce

1/3 cup of balsamic vinegar

FOR COOKING:

Non-alcoholic cooking sherry

Non-alcoholic cooking wine

Raspberry extract (instead of Brandy)

Or you can burn the alcohol out of the liquor by heating the liquor
in a pan and carefully lighting a match
Submitted By JANE KNOX   On   10-19-94

