Title: American Cookery, Part 1 of 5
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 servings
No Ingredients Found
These are the little blurbs that were in front of each section in the
Women's Day encyclopedia of Cookery.  I didn't want to put it in
front of each recipe from that section, but also didn't want to leave
out the descriptions of each State either.. 8-}  Hope you enjoy the
thumbnail tours of each State.

ALABAMA: Scents of amellia and mimosa cling to the plateau of the
Piedmont. Here Cotton is King and ships of Seven Seas yaw and splash
in Mobile Bay. Sweet potatoes ripen in the sun of Coosa Valley, the
Azalea Trail exudes heady perfume, and yellowhammers brighten the
Cumberland. The twang of banjo and whir of cotton gin, familiar
sounds of the Deep South. ALASKA: The Klondike is cold and Stika
spruce shiver in emptry loneliness. Otter, seal, caribou, grizzly and
reindeer are ready for it. So ate the native Aleut and the advenurous
sourdough.  The treeless tundra, glassy glacier and frozen fiord call
ever to the wild.  There is majesty in Mount McKinley and gold in
them thar hills.  But north of the untamed Yukon Territory, it's
cold. ARIZONA: Sirocco winds scud through Canyon Diablo, bending the
ginat cactus and paloverde tree, seding the tumbleweed scurrying
across the desert floor.  Cactus wrens soar oer the red veined copper
lodes. Painted Desert, Petrified Forest - where Hopi, Yaqui and
Navajo dwell. Place of the canyons.  Grand, Black, Glen - where
prehisotric heavings have rent the land. ARKANSAS: Hot springs bubble
in the Ozarks, where an Arkansas Traveler hears a canvasback or
mallard honking for passage along the Mississippi flyway. Gum
cypress, hickory and pine stretch out their leafy arms in the forest
of the Ouachita, and a prospector digging mid Murfreesboro's
sandstone highlands can keep any diamonds he finds - but only up to 5
carats. CALIFORNIA: Redwood, orange blossom, gree Yosemite, Rose
Bowl, white Whitney, silver screen, Golden Gate - colors by the
Pacific.  City of Angels, Valley of Deth, saintly towns of Diego,
Barbara, Clara and Francisco. Astroners observe skiers slalom,
swallows return, abalone simmers, Mojave shimmers, trolleys clang,
windes glow, and motorists drive through a giant sequoia. COLORADO:
Big Horn sheep gambol where the columbine grows, and the deer and the
antelope play in the Black Canyon of the Gunnison, Exhausted, dusty
mining hamlets maintain their ghosts, and the caves of ancient cliff
dwellers yawn and gape on the Mesa Verde.  Great Sand Dunes and
Garden of the Gods, abouve, Pike's Peak looms and cadets fly 'into
the wild blue yonder.' CONNECTICUT: Gateway to New England, whose
salt-boxes and church spires on village greens tell of colonial
sralwarst who settled the lovely postcard town; Litchfield, Guilford,
Old Lyme, Mystic, where ancient mariners went down to the sea, New
London, where submarines sink silently into the sound. Yale fence,
Housatonic's covered spans, and mellowing tobacco leaves. DELAWARE:
Corridor to Chesapeake Bay, capital of colonial New Sweden, first to
ratify the Constitution, birthplace of nylon stockings. Delaware Bay
gives it coast line, du Ponts give it economic and cultural
transfusions. Proud of its fighting Blue Hen symbol, pleased with the
old aura of New Castle and clovered fields near Dover.  Called by
Thomas Jefferson, "a jewel among States." FLORIDA: Gleaming,
whitewashed hotels crouch shadowless on the beaches of Miami, and
alligators slither through the swamps of the EverGlades. Natives
wrench sponges from the ocean floor, and visitors peer through glass
bottomed boats to see inky denizens of the deep. Venerable St.
Augustine, lyrical Suwannee and Okeechobee: siren calls to the
Sunshine State. GEORGIA: Brown thrashers singing in the pines, ping
of marble hammers at Talking Rock, sweet scent o Cherokee rose,
tropical flowers floating in Okefenokee Swamp, Scarlett O'Hara
pirouetting on Peachtree Street.  The Old Confederacy: where history
comes alive at Chickamauga, Ft. Pulaski, Brunswick, Atlanta, and
along Sherman's searing "March to the Sea." Origin: Women's Day
Encyclopedia of Cookery, Volume 1. Shared by: Sharon Stevens, Oct/94.

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   10-31-94

