Title: Andouille Sausage, Homemade
Categories: Sausage, Pork, Homemade, Cajun/creol
Yield: 1 servings
No Ingredients Found
Andouille was a great favorite in nineteenth-century New Orleans. This
thick Cajun sausage is made with lean pork and pork fat and lots of
garlic. Sliced about 1/2 inch thick and greilled, it makes a
delightful appetizer. It is also used in a superb oyster and
andouille gumbo poplular in Laplace, a Cajun town about 30 miles from
New Orleans that calls itself the Andouille Capital of the World.

(about 6 pounds of 20 inch sausage, 3 to 3 1/2 inches thick) 1 1/2
yards large sausage casing, approximately  (about 2-3 inches wide) 4
lb lean fresh pork 2 lb pork fat 3 1/3 tbsp finely minced garlic 2
tbsp salt 1/2 tsp freshly ground black pepper 1/8 tsp cayenne 1/8 tsp
chili powder 1/8 tsp mace 1/8 tsp allspice 1/2 tsp dried thyme 1 tbsp
paprika 1/4 tsp ground bay leaf 1/4 tsp sage 5 tsp Colgin's liquid
hickory smoke Soak the casing about an hour in cold water to soften
it and to loosen the salt in which it is packed.  Cut into 3 yard
lengths, then place the narrow end of the sausage stuffer in one end
of the casing.  Place the wide end of the stuffer up against the sink
faucet and run cold water through the inside of the casing to remove
any salt.  (Roll up the casing you do not intend to use; put about 2
inches of coarse salt in a large jar, place the rolled up casing on
it, then fill the rest of the jar with salt.  Close tightly and
refrigerate for later use.) Cut the meat and fat into chunks about
1/2 inch across and pass once through the coarse blade of the meat
grinder. Combine the pork with the remaining ingredients in a large
bowl and mix well with a wooden spoon.  Cut the casings into 26 inch
lengths and stuff as follows: Tie a knot in each piece of casing
about 2 inches from one end. Fit the open end over the tip of the
sausage stuffer and slide it to about 1 inch from the wide end.  Push
the rest of the casing onto the stuffer until the top touches the
knot.   (The casing will look like accordian folds on the stuffer.)
Fit the stuffer onto the meat grinder as directed on the instructions
that come with the machine, or hold the wide end of the stuffer
against or over the opeoning by  hand. Fill the hopper with stuffing.
Turn the machine on if it is electric  and feed the stuffing
gradually into the hopper; for a manual machine, push the stuffing
through with a wooden pestle.  The sausage casing will fill and
inflate gradually. Stop filling about 1 1/4 inches from the funnel
end and slip the casing off the funnel, smoothing out any bumps
carefully with your fingers and being careful not to push the
stuffing out of the casing.  Tie off the open end of the sausage
tightly with a piece of string or make a knot in the casing itself.
Repeat until all the stuffing is used up. To cook, slice the
andouille 1/2 inch thick and grill in a hot skillet with no water for
about 12 minutes on each side, until brown and crisp at the edges.

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   11-12-94

