Title: Basic Omelet for Two
Categories: Cheese/eggs, Breakfast, Holiday
Yield: 2 servings
1/8 t  Pepper
1 T  Butter OR margarine
Filling (see below)
4 ea Eggs
1/4 c  Milk OR water
1/2 t  Salt
Beat eggs until light and frothy.  Add milk, salt and pepper, and beat
again.  Heat butter in an 8-inch saute pan over medium heat. Tilt pan
so butter covers bottom surface.  Pour in egg mixture and cook without
stirring until eggs begin to set around edges. Draw set portions of
the egg toward center of pan with a fork, allowing uncooked egg to
flow to the bottom of the pan. Tilt pan, if necessary, to disperse
liquid part of eggs. When eggs have set and top is creamy, add
filling of your choice to one half of the omelet and fold the other
half over it.  Slide onto heated serving dish. Makes 2 servings.
Cheddar Cheese Filling: For each omelet allow 1/2 cup shredded
Cheddar cheese, Ham and Cheese Filling: Allow 1/4 cup each finely
diced cooked ham and shredded Cheddar cheese for each omelet.
Mushroom Filling: Allow 1/2 cup sliced mushrooms sauteed in 1
teaspoon butter for each omelet. Cottage Cheese Filling: Allow 1/4
cup cottage cheese mixed with 1 tablespoon chopped chives for each
omelet. Shrimp Filling: Allow 1/4 cup tiny cooked shrimp for each
omelet. Saute briefly in 1 tablespoon garlic butter.  To make garlic
butter, saute 4 mashed cloves garlic in 1 cup butter for 2 to 3
minutes. Discard garlic cloves and use butter to saute shrimp.
Chicken Liver filling: Dice chicken livers.  Allow about 1/4 cup
livers per omelet. Saute briefly in 1 tablespoon butter and 1
tablespoon cream sherry. Add 1 tablespoon chopped green onions, if
desired. Mixed Vegetable Filling: Cook frozen mixed vegetables
according to package directions. Drain well. For each omelet, combine
1/2 cup cooked vegetables with 2 tablespoons canned tomato sauce.
Bacon and Tomato filling: Crumble cooked bacon with seeded and finely
chopped tomatoes. Allow 1/2 cup mixture per omelet. Fruit Filling:
Spread almost-set omelet with thawed frozen raspberries,
strawberries, or other fruits.  Allow about 1/2 cup fruit per omelet.
Fold, top with a dollop of sour cream, and sprinkle slightly with
powdered sugar. Jelly or Jam Filling: Hot pepper jelly, marmalades,
or any type of jams or jellies may be used.  Spread desired amount on
omelet before folding. From: THE LOS ANGELES TIMES BOOK OF CHRISTMAS
ENTERTAINING by Dawn Navarro, Harry N. Abrams, Inc., New York. 1985
ISBN 0-8109-1290-2 From the files of Karin Brewer

Submitted By KARIN BREWER   On   12-02-94

