Title: Bien Me Sabe De Coco(Spongecake W/ Coconut Cream)(Venezue
Categories: So. america, Dessert, Cake/cookie
Yield: 8 servings
2 c  Coconut milk; made with 1
;coconut and 2 cups cold
;water as in Lechi de Coco
1 c  Sugar
5    Egg yolks
1/4 ts Ground cinnamon
1 c  Muscatel
1 tb Butter; soft
5    Egg whites
1/2 c  Sugar
5    Egg yolks
1/3 c  Sweet white wine
10 tb All purpose flour
COCONUT CREAM:
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees (F).  With a pastry brush, coat the
bottom and sides of a shallow 8 by 12 inch baking dish or cake pan
with 1 tablespoon soft butter.  Set aside.

THE CAKE:
In a large mixing bowl, beat the egg whites with a wire whisk or a
rotary or electric beater until they form soft peaks, then add 1/2
cup of sugar, 1 or 2 tablespoons at a time, beating continuously
until the meringue is stiff and glossy.  In a separate bowl, beat 5
egg yolks and the wine with a whisk until the mixture is light and
thick. Then pour the yolks over the meringue and, with a rubber
spatula, fold together lightly but thoroughly, using an over under
cutting motion rather than a stirring motion. Sprinkle the flour on
top and continue to fold until no trace of flour shows. (Do not over
mix or the cake will be heavy instead of light.) Gently pour the
batter into the prepared baking dish, smooth the top with the
spatula, and bake in the middle of the oven for 30 minutes, or until
a cake tester inserted in the center of the cake comes out clean.
Remove the cake from the oven, and turn it out on a cake rack to cool.

COCONUT CREAM:
In a heavy 3 to 4 quart saucepan, combine 1 1/4 cups of the coconut
milk and 1 cup of sugar, and cook over moderate heat, stirring
constantly, until the syrup reaches a temperature of 320 degrees on a
candy thermometer, or a small amount dropped into ice water hardens
immediately into a thread. Remove the pan from the heat.
In a large bowl, beat the 5 remaining egg yolks with a whisk or a
rotary or electric beater until they are thick and lemon colored.
Beat in the remaining 3/4 cup of coconut milk and then 2 tablespoons
of the hot coconut milk syrup.  Gradually stir the egg yolk mixture
into the pan of syrup, and cook over low heat, stirring constantly,
for 15 minutes, or until the sauce is thick enough to coat a spoon
lightly. Under no circumstance allow the mixture to boil or the eggs
will curdle.

TO ASSEMBLE:
Cut the cooled cake into 2 inch squares and arrange them on a large
serving platter.  Sprinkle the cake evenly with the cinnamon and wine
mixture and, when the cake has absorbed the wine, pour the coconut
cream over it.  Refrigerate for at least 2 hours and serve chilled.

92 of 108

Source: Time Life Series: Latin American Cooking

MMed by: earl.cravens@salata.com
Submitted By EARL CRAVENS   On   12-19-94

