Title: Black-Eyed Pea Soup with Arkansalsa and Creme Fraiche
Categories: Soup/stew, Vegetable, Salsa/sauce, Tex/mexican
Yield: 8 entrees
3    Cloves of garlic, peeled
& put through a press
1 1/2 T  Mild vegetable oil, such as
Corn or peanut
1 lg Onion, chopped
2 md Carrots, scrubbed or peeled,
And finely diced
1 lg Green pepper, steemed,
Seeded, and diced
2    Ribs celery with leaves,
Finely diced
Salt and fresh pepper /taste
Garlic oil *
Arkansalsa (see recipe)
Creme Fraiche, sour cream,
Kefir cheese, or plain
Yogurt for garnish
1 x  Pam cooking spray
1 lb Black-eyed peas
2 qt Vegetable stock or water
2    Bay leaves
1/2 t  Oregano, dried
1/2 t  Basil, dried
1 T  Cumin seeds
1 t  Summer savory, dried
1 t  Cracked coriander seeds
Fresh black pepper to taste
2 T  Tomato paste
1 c  Additional vegetable stock
1 c  Spicy Hot V8
1 T  Pickapeppa or Worcestershire
1 t  Tamari/shoyu soy sauce
1 t  Tabasco sauce
2    Salt-free Morga vegetarian
Bouillon cubes *
1. Spray a large heavy pot with the Pam,  and in it soak the beans in
the stock or water to cover overnight.

2. The next day, add enough of the remaining stock or water to cover
the beans by 2 inches.  Bring to a boil, then turn down the heat to
very low, and add the bay leaves, oregano, basil, cumin seeds,
savory, coriander seeds, and several generous grinds of black pepper.
Cover the beans and let them simmer, stirring occasionally, until
thoroughly soft and cooked -- until you can easily squash a bean
against the side of the pot with a wooden spoon.  Taste one -- it
will be extremely, creamily soft, though very  bland at this point.
Don't worry, things are about to get much more interesting in
Black-Eyed Pea land. Keep the soup over low heat.

3. Dissolve the tomato paste in the additional cup of stock or water,
and add it to the simmering black-eyes with the V8, Pick apeppa or
Worcestershire sauce, soy sauce, Tabasco sauce, Morga cubes, and
garlic. Give the mixture a good stir to combine.

4.  Spray a 10-inch skillet with Pam, and in it heat the oil over
medium heat.  Add the onion and saute until transparent, about 4
minutes. Add the carrots, green pepper, and celery, and continue
sauteing until they soften a bit, another 2 minutes.  Stir these
vegetables into the simmering soup, scraping the skillet to get out
any little flavorful bits. At this point the soup will be on the
thick and stewlike side; if you want it soupier, add addiitional
stock. Now taste. Turn up the volume by adding salt and pepper and
maybe a little good old garlic oil. Its flavor will really come alive
at this point, but only begin to dance truly after another 15 minutes
or so of uncovered simmering.

5. Ladle the hot soup into bowls, and top each serving with
Arkansalsa, a dab of creme fraiche or any of the other dairy choices,
and a sprig of cilantro.  pass additional salsa and creme fraiche, or
other dairy dabs, at the table.

* MORGA: This is my one major concession to convenience foods -- Morga
Vegetable Bouillon Cubes, the salt-free variety.  Purchase them at a
natural foods store.  They are Swiss-made, and good.  Always keep
some on hand, but dont rely on them too often, or your soups will
become monotonous.

* Araknsalsa: See recipe

* GARLIC OIL: If you make one garlic preparation, it should be this.
We always have a couple of cups of this in the fridge at the
reastaurant, and during busy times of the year go through several
quarts a week. It is so handy, and vvirtually a secret weapon in
seasoning. We brush fish with Garlic Oil before baking them; we stir
it into soups at the last minute; we add it to meat and chicken
marinades; to sauces and vinaigrettes; to everthing you might imagine
and more. Once you get the garlic cloves peeled, this is a breeze to
prepare, provided you have a food processor. See recipe for Garlic Oil
Submitted By BRENT WILLIAMS   On   11-19-94

