Title: Blue Corn Dumplings in Potato Nests with Red Chile Sauce
Categories: Native amer, Vegetable, Pasta, Potato, Main dish
Yield: 18 pieces
MMMMM-----------------------POTATO BASKET----------------------------
4 c  Vegetable oil
1/2 ts Salt
3 lg Russet potatoes, peeled and
-julienned
MMMMM--------------------BLUE CORN DUMPLINGS-------------------------
3/4 c  Milk
2 c  Chicken stock
1 c  Water
3 c  Red Chile Sauce
1 c  Blue cornmeal
2 ts Baking powder
1/2 ts Salt
2 tb Sugar
1 ts Unsalted butter, melted
Line the larger basket in a set of long handled potato nest baskets
with potato strips and then place the smaller basket inside, on top
of the potatoes.

Heat the oil in a large pot over high heat and sumberge the baskets
in oil. Fry about 1 minute, or until the potatoes turn golden brown.
Remove the top basket and carefully remove the potato nest.  Drain on
paper towels. Repeat the process until you have 6 potato baskets, or
until all the potato strips have been used.  Sprinkle with salt and
set aside.

To make the dumplings, sift the blue cornmeal, baking powder, salt and
sugar together in a bowl.  Add the butter and milk and mix well,
making a stiff but moist batter.  Let rest 10 minutes.

Meanwhile, in a saucepan, boil together the chicken stock and water
over high heat, then reduce the heat to a low simmer.  After the
batter has rested, make almond shaped dumplings with 2 tablespoons,
evening off each side of the dumpling with one of the spoons. Dropthe
dumplings into the simmering stock, cover the pot, and cook 3 to 4
minutes, until tender and thoroughly cooked.  Drain.

Heat the Red Chile Sauce over moderate heat.  Spoon about 1/2 cup
onto each place, place a potato basket on top, and 2 to 3 dumplings
inside. ***********

Based on traditional ingredients, this recipe combines the mild
flavors of potatoes and blue corn with the spiciness of Red Chile
Sauce, resluting in a simple yet elegant appetizer..

Much of the recipe can be made ahead of time.  The potato nests,
which are made in a special pair of long-handled wire baskets, mut be
stored in a dry place to retain their crispiness and can be served at
room temperature. The chile sauce can also be made in advance, since
it keeps well in the refrigerator and can easily be reheated.

From "Native American Cooking," by Lois Ellen Frank
Submitted By HILDE MOTT   On   10-31-94

