Title: Braised Chicken with Ramps
Categories: Chicken, Main dish, Poultry, Misc/food
Yield: 4 servings
-- reserving green tops
-- from 2 ramps for garnish
1 c  Chicken stock or
1 c  Canned chicken broth
1/2    Bay leaf
1/4 ts Crumbled dried thyme
1/3 c  Heavy cream
1    3 lb. chicken
-- cut into serving pieces
2 tb Unsalted butter
2 tb Vegetable oil
Salt and pepper; to taste
1 sm Onion; minced
1/2 c  Dry vermouth
2 oz White part of ramps; trimmed
In a stainless steel or enameled skillet or shallow casserole large
enough to hold the chicken in one layer, heat butter and oil over
moderately high heat until the fat is hot.  In the fat brown the
chicken, rinsed, patted dry, and seasoned with salt and pepper, and
transfer it with tongs to a plate.

Pour off all but 2 tb. of the fat from the skillet and in the
remaining fat, cook the onion over moderate heat, stirring, until it
is softened. Add vermouth, deglaze the skillet, scraping up the brown
bits clinging to the bottom and sides, and reduce the liquid over
moderately high heat by half. Add the ramps, stock, bay leaf, thyme
and salt and pepper. Arrange chicken skin side up in the skillet, and
bring the liquid to a simmer. Cook chicken at a bare simmer, covered,
for 15 minutes or until the breasts are just tender. Transfer the
breasts with a slotted spoon to a platter and keep them warm, covered
loosely.

Discard the bay leaf.  In a food processor fitted with the steel
blade or in a blender, puree cooking liquid.  Strain the puree
through a fine sieve into the skillet, pressing hard on the solids.
Bring the liquid to a boil over moderately high heat, add cream and
salt and pepper, and cook the sauce, stirring, for 1 to 2 minutes or
until it is thickened slightly. Nap the chicken with the sauce;
garnish the dish with reserved minced ramp tops.

Yield: 4 to 6 servings.

Reprinted from "Gourmet" magazine, April 1983 in _Mom & Ramps
Forever!_ by Barbara Beury McCallum.  Charleston, WV: Mountain State
Press, 1983. ISBN 0-941092-09-7.  Pg. 28.  Typed for you by Cathy
Harned. Submitted By CATHY HARNED   On   12-03-94

