Title: Carrot Cake (Microwave)
Categories: Microwave, Cake/cookie, Vegetable
Yield: 16 servings
2 c  Granulated sugar
1 1/2 c  Vegetable oil
3 lg Eggs
5 c  Shredded carrots (1-1/4
-lbs.)
1/4 c  Graham-cracker crumbs
2 1/4 c  Flour
1 tb Ground cinnamon
2 ts Baking soda
1 ts Ground nutmeg
3/4 ts Salt
Shelley Rodgers (Jolly Rodgers:the Portuguese Pirate!
FROM:
(1:161/202))

The conventional version of this recipe came from Mary Dorcas Walker
of Phoenix, AZ.  The microwave version is moister, lighter and rises
higher because the air inside a microwave oven rremains at room
temperature. The hot, dry air of a conventional oven bakes a crust
around the outside of a cake that holds in its volume.  As Jill Crum,
director of the Microwave Cooking Library's test kitchen, says, "To
convert for microwaving, you usually need todecrease liquid and
increase fat, but this cake is rich in eggs and oil and has no
additional liquid, so the proportions don't have to be changed." This
holds true for pudding cakes in the microwave, too.

confectioners' sugar, for topping

Lightly spray a 12-cup plastic fluted tube pan with vegetable cooking
spray. Add crumbs; tilt and rotate pan to cover bottom and sides;
shake out excess crumbs.  Mix flour, cinnamon, baking soda, nutmeg
and salt.

In a large bowl beat sugar, oil and eggs with wooden spoonuntil
blended. Stir in caarrots and nuts, then flour mixture until well
blended. Pour into prepared pan.

Place pan on an inverted glass plate or plastic trivet in microwave
oven. Rotating pan a quarter turn twice, microwave on medium-high
18-22 minutes, until a pick inserted in cente rof cake comes out
clean. (If using transparent pan, lift and check bottom,; cake should
look dry.) Moist spots on surface will dry while cake is standing.

Cool in pan directly on flat heatproof surface 10 minutes.  Cake
should pull away from sides and tube of pan.  run a thin-bladed
spatula around sides and tube to loosen cake.  Invert onto a rack;
remove pan and cool completely. Dust top with confectioners' sugar.

Makes 16 servngs.

[ Woman's Day magazine, 3/24/87. ]

** -=> this comes from the bottom of the files of Shelley Rodgers <=-
Submitted By BOBBI ZEE   On   11-27-94

