Title: Cheese Info
Categories: Information, Cheese/eggs
Yield: 1 info
No Ingredients
MMMMM----------------CHEESE TO PLEASE ALL TASTES---------------------
Arranging a tray of cheese and crackers is just about the easiest
way to entertain. It's also fun for guests to sample new cheeses.
These terms will help you purchase cheeses that satisfy a broad range
of tastes.

AGED: Cheeses that have been cured six months or more. The aging
process develops a fuller, sharper flavor.

BLUE-VEINED: Cheeses that develop blue or green streaks of harmless,
flavor producing mold throughout the interior. Generally, veining
gives cheese an assertive and piquant flavor.

CHEVRES: Originally, this term referred to cheese made from French
goat's milk, but it now includes all goat cheeses.

CREAMS, Single, Double and Triple: Rich cheese that is high in
butterfat. Single creams contain at least 50 percent butterfat,
double creams contain at least 60 percent; and triple creams contain
at least 70 percent.

FRESH: Uncured cheeses, such as mascarpone, cottage cheese, cream
cheese or ricotta. Some cheeses that have been cured for a short
time, such as feta, may also be considered fresh.

HARD: Cheeses that hold their shape, like Parmesan.

PART-SKIM: Part-skim milk is used to make cheese, such as
mozzarella. Skim milk yields lower fat cheeses than those made with
whole milk.

PICKLED CHEESE: Cheese that is stored and packed in a pickling
brine. Feta is a pickled cheese.

SEMI-FIRM: Cheeses that hold their shape, yet yield to gentle
pressure, like Edam and Gouda.

SHARP: A fully developed, aged cheese. Sharp cheese should have a
biting, but not too sour, taste. Cheddar, provolone and some blue
varieties may have a sharp flavor.

SMOKED CHEESE: Cheese that is treated with liquid smoke, or smoked
over wood chips. Cheddar, mozzarella, Swiss and provolone are
available smoked.

SOFT-RIPENED: Cheeses that soften as they ripen inside a rind, Like
Brie and Camembert.

Source: Sacramento Bee, 10/12/94 Shared by: David Knight
Submitted By DAVID KNIGHT   On   10-18-94

