Title: Chicken Ala Creole
Categories: Poultry, Cajun/creol, Chicken, Main dish
Yield: 8 servings
2 lb Tomatoes, fresh, chopped
-- (@ 4 cups)
2 tb Soy sauce
1 ts Salt
1 tb Sauce, cayenne,
-- Louisianna Hot Sauce
1 ea Chicken, fryer, cooked,
-- deboned
Rice, cooked
2 tb Oil, olive
2 lg Onions, diced
2 md Pepper, bell, diced
1/2 c  Parsley, finely chopped
1/2 c  Onion, green, diced
1 ts Mint, dried, crushed
1 tb Garlic, minced
1 c  Wine, white, dry
2 c  Stock, chicken
Cook the chicken by boiling it in water and vegetables as you
would to make a good chicken stock.  When the chicken is cooked,
remove the chicken from the broth, cool, and debone.  Set aside the
warm pieces of chicken for later in the recipe.

Strain the chicken stock and reserve.

In a large pot or Dutch oven, put the olive oil in over moderate
heat, swirling to coat the bottom of the pot.  Add the onions,
pepper, parsley and saute for a minute with stirring.

Add diced green onion and saute for another minute.

Add mint, garlic, and white wine (the wine tends to take the
bitterness out of onions, garlic, and other ingredients and takes the
place of sugar for making these ingredients milder) and continue to
simmer for two minutes.

Add the chicken stock, tomatoes and soy sauce and simmer for
another 2 minutes.

Add a teaspoon of salt, and the Louisianna Hot Sauce (made from
cayenne pepper) to taste and stir.  Obviously Justin Wilson LOVES hot
sauce ...  and you may not.  Use it as sparingly or as generously as
you like.

To the hot simmering mixture, add the cooked chicken to the pot
and stir occasionally while simmering ten to fifteen minutes over low
heat. The chicken is already cooked, the simmering is to let the
flavors merge and meld together before serving.

Serve the Chicken ala Creole over cooked rice with a glass of
red wine and pieces of Burgundy Bread ** on the side.

** See recipe for Burgundy Bread elsewhere.

Source: Justin Wilson's Louisianna Coooking Show - PBS
: - "Louisianna Cooking at Home" from the book "At Home"
: P.O. Box 1430, Lacombe, LA 70445
Submitted By ROB STEWART   On   11-08-94

