Title: Choosing and Cooking with Chiles
Categories: Native amer, Information
Yield: 1 servings  There are many types of chiles, ranging from mild to fiery hot.  The
degree of heat depends on the time of harvest - red chiles are riper,
of course, and taste sweeter and somewhat hotter than green - and
also on the variety and handling techniques used.

The most commonly used chile is the ANAHEIM.  It is fairly large - 6
to 7 inches long - with mild heat.  Harvested green, it is a favorite
for stuffing or for roasting and using in sauces and stews.  When
harvested red, the anaheim is strung in ristras, large strands of
chiles that are hung outside in the sun to dry.  It can then be
ground into chile powder.

The NEW MEXICO GREEN chile is similar to the anaheim, and the two are
interchangeable in my recipes.  The New Mexico green is slightly
smaller than the anaheim, and varies in strength from medium to very
hot, depending on the region it was grown in.  The New Mexico Red is
a ripened New Mexico Green.  It can be used fresh or frozen, but it
is more commonly dried and powdered.

The JALAPENO, about 3 inches long, has a fiery hot taste and, although
usually eaten green, can also be matured on the vine and ripened to
red. It is  added raw to salsas and salads or cooked in sauces, soups
and stews. Jalapenos are roasted, then dried.

The SERRANO, a smaller chile, can be substituted for the jalapeno. It
has a hot but fruity flavor when eaten green; the red pods can be
dried, but taste best eaten fresh.

The fresh CAYENNE pepper is about 4 to 7 inches in length, and 1/4 to
3/4 inch wide.  It is a hot, sweet chile with thin flesh that tends
to twist as it grows; it has the best flavor when it is red and
mature, but is also eaten green.

The HOLLAND  chile is a hybrid that is available all year and tastes
very similar to a fresh cayenne pepper.

The GUAJILLO is a tough-skinned dried brownish-red chile about 4
inches in length.  It has a rich, earthy flavor that is fruity with a
medium hotness.

Other extrememly hot chiles that are eaten dried include the CHILE DE
ARBOL and the CHILE PEQUIN.  Both should be used sparingly.

HANDLING CHILES Always wash fresh and dried chiles to remove dirt.
Whenever handling chiles, always take precautions to avoid skin
irritation: wear rubber gloves and DO NOT rub your eyes.

ROASTING CHILES There are various techniques for roasting chiles, each
resulting in a slightly different flavor. Red and yellow bell peppers
can be roasted by the same methods.

The Oven Method:  Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F., place the
chiles on a baking sheet, and bake for 20 to 30 minutes.  Turn the
chiles frequently as they begin to brown until all sides are evenly
blistered and browned. Remove from the oven.

"Sweat" the chiles in a closed paper or plastic bag 5 to 10 minutes,
until they are cook enough to handle.  Peel each chile from the tip
to the stem and discard the skins.  If you are drying the chiles
leave them whole at this point and continue with the drying process.
Otherwise, pull off the stems, remove the seeds and veins, and rinse
in water to remove stray seeds.

The Open Flame Method:  Roast the whole fresh chiles over a barbecue
grill or a gas stove with the flame set at medium high. Turn the
chiles with tongs every couple of minutes until all parts are
thoroughly charred.

Remove the chiles from the flame and soak them in ice water.  Under
cold running water, rub the charred skins off and discard.

This method is a better one to use than the oven method when you are
making stuffed chiles, because the meat remains firm inside.  If
using a chile for stuffing or for cooking whole, leave on the stem
and make only one slit to remove the veins and seeds, stuff the chile
and reseal it.

The Frying Method:  Put 1 inch vegetable oil in a saucepan with sides
high enough to protect you from splatters.  Heat until hot byt not
quite smoking, then gently drop in enough chiles to cover the bottom
of the pan. Turn with tongs as they begin to blister.  The skins will
loosen as the chiles turn golden brown.  Remove from oil and drain on
paper towels. When the chiles are cool enough to handle, peel the
skins from the stem to the tip and discard.  Slice the chiles
lengthwise, remove the seeds, devein, remove stems and rinse. ***
NOTE *** Whichever method you use, the chiles, once prepared, can be
stored in plastic bags in the refrigerator for 3 days, or frozen abd
kept for up to 6 months.

Green chiles can also be dried for future use.  Roast and peel the
green chiles using theOven Method.  Hang the chiles on a long string
or lay them flat on a screen and place outdoors for about 4 days (the
weather must be warm and dry).  Turn the chiles each day to make sure
each side dries equally.  Once the chiles are fully dried, they can
be bagged and stored in a cool, dry place.

To reconstitute the dried chiles soak them in warm water for 1/2
hour, then remove the stems and seeds.  The chiles will expand to
their original size and can be used as you would use fresh chiles.
Submitted By HILDE MOTT   On   11-19-94

