Title: Chupe De Marisco (Chile)(Baked Scallops/cream/cheese Sauc
Categories: So. america, Cheese/eggs, Main dish, Seafood, Clam/oyster
Yield: 6 servings
1/4 ts Ground nutmeg
1/4 ts Cayenne pepper
1 1/2 ts Salt
1/4 ts White pepper; ground
1/2 c  Munster cheese; fresh grated
2 tb Munster cheese; fresh grated
2    Egg; hardcooked, quartered
;lengthwise
3 c  Hot cooked rice; made from
1 cup raw long grain rice
1/2 c  White wine, dry
2 ts Shallots; finely chopped or
;onions finely chopped
2 lb Sea scallops; cut in half
;crosswise
2 tb Bread crumbs; fresh
1 1/2 c  Light cream
6 tb Butter
6 tb Flour
1 tb Yellow chili paste (optional
1/4 ts Paprika
In a large enameled saucepan or skillet, combine the wine and
shallots or onions, and bring to a boil over high heat.  Then reduce
the heat to low and simmer for 3 minutes.  Add the scallops, cover,
and cook over low heat for about 5 minutes, or until the scallops
become firm and opaque. Drain the scallops and save 1/2 cup of the
cooking liquid. Set the scallops and liquid aside.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F.  In a small cup or bowl, soak the
bread crumbs in 2 tablespoons of the cream.  Melt the butter over
moderate heat in a 2 to 3 quart saucepan.  When the foam subsides,
reduce the heat to low and stir in the flour, stirring constantly for
a minute or two. Then slowly stir in the 1/2 cup of reserved cooking
liquid and the remaining cream.  Cook over high heat, stirring
constantly with a whisk until the sauce thickens and comes to a boil.
Add the soaked bread crumbs, chili paste, paprika, nutmeg, Cayenne,
salt and white pepper, and stir until all the ingredients are well
blended. Stir in 1/2 cup of the grated cheese and cook for a minute
or two, then add the scallops, omitting any liquid they may have
given off. Lightly butter the bottom and side of a 2 quart baking
dish or souffle dish, and arrange the hard cooked egg quarters on the
bottom.  Spoon in the scallop mixture and smooth the surface with a
rubber spatula.  Sprinkle the top with the remaining 2 tablespoons of
grated cheese.  Bake in the middle of the oven for 20 minutes, or
until the mixture bubbles and lightly browns on top. Serve at once
from the baking dish accompanied by the hot cooked rice.
NOTE:  this recipe is an adaptation of the classic Chilean "chupe de
locos" and substitutes scallops for the original fresh abalone--a
kind of seafood available in the U.S. only in California.  If you are
able to get fresh abalone and want to make the more authentic version
of this dish, remember that abalone must be tenderized.  It is
usually sold ready to use; if not, soften the meat by pounding the
slices thoroughly with a kitchen mallet.

67 of 108

Source: Time Life Series: Latin American Cooking.

MMed by: earl.cravens@salata.com
Submitted By EARL CRAVENS   On   11-17-94

