Title: Culinary Starches
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 info  Culinary starches are used to thicken purees, broths, and sauces. The
most common culinary starches are extracted from potatoes, cassava
(the tuber that tapioca comes from), arrowroot, wheat, rice, and
corn. All of them can be used as thickeners, although they vary in
their ability to thicken as well as in other ways.

Like cornstarch, potato starch, which is sometimes known by its French
name, fecula, makes translucent sauces. flour, the most common
thickener in American kitchens, makes opaque sauces. both potato
starch and cornstarch are twice as powerful as flour.

You can substitute cornstarch in recipes that call for potato starch
and vice versa, but you should be aware of differences and make
appropriate adjustments in your cooking technique.

For instance, potato starch gelatinizes at a lower temperature than
either cornstarch or flour and also tends to break  down at a lower
temperature. Therefore, sauces thickened with potato starch should be
watched carefully and removed from the heat as soon as they reach the
proper consistency. In addition, potato starch does not have as much
holding power as cornstarch, so sauces thickened with potato starch
should be served promptly.

On the positive side, potato starch is flavorless, making it the
choice of many chefs for delicate sauces. Also, since potato starch
is tasteless, there is no need to "cook out: the raw flavor of the
thickener, as you have to do with flour and even cornstarch. This
means that potato starch can be added much later in the cooking
process. If you substitute cornstarch for potato starch, you should
allow more time for the sauce to thicken and for the raw flavor of
the starch to fade.

Arrowroot, a root starch that comes from a West Indian plant, is more
similar to potato starch and is probably a better substitute for it
than cornstarch. Unfortunately, arrowroot is not as easily available
as cornstarch. You might find it health food stores since it is a
gluten-free product.

Cook's Illustrated January/February 1995
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   12-21-94

