Title: Easy Unyeasted Bread
Categories: Bread
Yield: 2 loaves
1 c  Soy flour
12 c  To 15 cups whole wheat
Flour
4 c  Spring or deep well water
2 ts Sea salt
2 tb Corn oil
In a large bowl or pot, mix the water, salt and oil; add the soy
flour then add approximately 8 cups of the whole wheat.  Mix and beat
with a wooden spoon for 5 minutes.

Add the rest of the flour cup by cup, mixing after each addition
until it becomes too thick to stir

Add some more flour; scrape and dough from the spoon and turn the
mixture onto a board or kneading surface, scooping everything out of
the bowl. Gently work all the dough pieces toward the center, up from
the periphery and down into the middle, together with the flour.  If
the dough gets sticky, flour the kneading surface lightly and knead
the dough over it; the flour will be incorporated without lumps.
Continue kneading until the dough is not sticky any more, but feels
cool and smooth, about the consistency of your earlobe.

Now the real kneading begins.  Lean into the dough with both hands and
straight elbows; sliding your left hand under the dough; flip it a
quarter turn towards you; clockwise, then fold the dough over and
lean into it again, thus squeeze rolling the dough between the heels
of your hands and the table.  In four kneads, then, the ball of dough
has had a complete turnaround.

Keep in mind that 1) all parts of the dough should eventually come to
the top; 2) it's easiest to work from the waist, not the wrists; 3)
the ball of dough always should stay in roughly the same place
through the kneading process; 4) it helps to develop a rhythm.  Try
kneading to music for instance.

Continue kneading for approximately 300 strokes, or for 15 to 20
minutes. With practice, you will soon think nothing of it.

Form the dough into a ball, then oil your hands lightly, and run them
over the ball.  Now place the ball in a large bowl or pot.  Cover
with a cloth and a cover (to avoid formation of a dry crust) and
allow to rest.

Plan on a fermentation or rising time of 30 to 36 hours. Every 6 to 8
hours punch the dough around and turn it over.  The first two or
three times it will look as though very little is happening; but
after 28 to 32 hours, when you go to punch down the dough you will
find it has risen and has a totally different texture and aroma.

When the dough has risen take it out of the bowl, knead a few times
on the table, and form it into two loaves.  Place in two lightly
oiled bread pans or side by side in one shallow baking pan, turning
over once so the tops get oiled.  Cut two or three deep slits into
the top surfaces, cover with a wet cloth and place in a warm area for
3 to 6 hours until the loaves rise half again their height.

Place the loaves in a cold oven, the turn the heat to 300 degrees F.
and bake for 1 1/2 hours.  Cool before slicing.

Store the loaf you're using in a paper bag or breadbox at room
temperature; store the loaves you're not using in a plastic bag in
the refrigerator.

The breads in this section do not mold or spoil unless they are kept
in a plastic bag at room temperature for at least two days.

Personal Note:  I have no idea if one really needs to use "spring or
deep well" water or "sea salt" in this recipe.  The recipe did not
state what size bread pan.  That is a lot of flour, but I have no
idea what size bread loaf this will yield.

From the Book of Whole Meals

== Courtesy of Dale & Gail Shipp, Columbia Md. ==
Submitted By GAIL SHIPP   On   11-04-94

