Title: Edible Flowers Information Page 2.
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 servings
No Ingredients Found
Source: The National Culinary Review, June'94 Edible flowers: a
history It is commonly thought that the pop- ularity of edible
flowers is an outgrowth of California nouvelle cuisine. Wolfgang
Puck, chef-owner of Spago in Los Angeles, and other trend-setting
chefs have gained national attention by doing things in a new and
different may But edible flowers are not new. People have been eating
flowers and using them in presentations since ancient times,
according to Susan Belsinger, author of Flozvers in the Kitchen.
Flowers have been used for culinary purposes since the earliest
times.  Many recipes, dating back to the Romans, have been recorded
using flowers to prepare everything from meads to meats. The Roman
Cook Book mentions violets and roses as recipe ingredients. Gladioli
bulbs were baked in the ashes and eaten with salt and oil, or pounded
with figs. Lavender was used in sauces and to flavor honey. Wine was
sometimes scented with rose petals. In the 17th century, edible
flowers began to play a more important part in food preparation.
During the time of Shakespeare, whose plays are full of references to
flowers, every English household was hung with huge bunches of
flowers drying for winter use.  Wealthier homes had impressive
gardens where flowers ere grown for medicinal and culinary uses.
Preserved flowers were found in cakes, tarts, custards, puddings,
creams, as decorations for fish and meat dishes, and in excellent
liqueurs. Historically, flowers have been used in countless ways -
crystallized for decoration; ground into sugar for flavoring; made
into syrups; preserved in jams and jellies; and used in sauces.  As
far back as the 1600s, fresh flowers were used in salads and
scattered through stews and soups. For centuries, great quantities of
flowers have been grown in China and Japan for cooking and for making
teas - hibiscus, jasmine, lily buds, lotus, orange blossoms and rose
petals. Chrysanthemums, prominent in several Oriental dishes, are
sold in the markets, washed and ready for cooking. Chrysanthemum hot
pot, for example, combines fish, poultry and vegetables with the
petals of dark yellow chrysanthemums.  The Chinese believe that
eating chrysanthemums will result in a longer life. The Japanese also
use the petals of various chrysanthemums, sometimes boiling the roots
to eat with soy sauce and sugar.  Roses have played an important role
in the spicy cuisine of the Middle East. Many dishes call for orange
flowers and rose water, which has been used since 140 BE. Harvesting
edible flowers Edible flowers are used in modern- day France and
Germany, where flower teas, or tisanes, are used in place of sleeping
pills. In England, adventuresome cooks and chefs usually use flowers
grown in their backyard gardens to prepare extraordinary dishes.
Flowers should be picked at mid-morning on a warm, dry day after the
dew has evaporated and before the day's heat starts to build.  If you
grow your own flowers, you may want to rinse them in a tub of cool
water to flush out any insects.  Pat the flowers dry. After you
harvest your crop of edible flowers, place the petals on trays lined
with a damp cloth and wrap each tray in plastic wrap, or wrap the
petals in a plastic bag containing a damp napkin. Refrigerate the
flowers to keep them fresh until meal time. Properly packaged flowers
will last up to a week, if kept cold.  If you are unable to tend an
entire flower garden, try a simpler window box filled with edible
flowers: lavender, nasturtiums and herbs that flowers such as, chive,
basil and marjoram; or violets, pansies and sweet woodruff; or
bergamot, anchusa, cornflowers and mint. Even amateur gardeners can
coordinate the planting of several kinds of seasonal flowers to
provide an almost continuous supply of culinary blossoms. If you do
grow your own flowers, make certain not to use pesticides. Two of the
most rewarding edible flowers to grow on your own are nasturtiums and
day lilies.  Nasturtiums are almost indestructible, and you can eat
both the leaf and the blossom.  They produce blossoms all summer and
seem to thrive on poor soil.  Day lilies have the flavor of chestnuts
and can be added to soups, stuffings and stir-fry dishes. They are
excellent dipped in batter and deep fried. Other easily grown edible
flowers are marigolds and dandelions. Marigold petals enhance
everything from cottage cheese to wine. Dandelions, commonly used in
Italy, can be steamed or used in salads and omelets.  They are best
known as the main ingredient in dandelion wine, which tastes like a
light sherry.

Using flowers in the kitchen can be very creative.  The blossoms from
dill and chive plants can be combined to make an unusual vinegar or
savory butter.  Refrain from combining more than two kinds of flowers
in any one recipe.  You do not want to confuse or shock your taste
buds. The end result should be a harmonious blend of flavors and
colors, with a surprise taste or two.  For best results, always use
flowers at their peak. Avoid unopened buds, faded or wilted flowers,
unless you're fond of bitter flavors.

Submitted By SHERREE JOHANSSON   On   10-23-94

