Title: Eileen Fulton's Buckwheat Pasta W/ Smooth-As-Velvet Tomat
Categories: Pasta, Vegetable, Main dish
Yield: 4 servings
-1/3s
1 lb Buckwheat or whole-wheat
-pasta
2 t  Fresh lemon juice
1 T  Sugar
1/4 c  Red wine or sherry
Salt to taste
Parmesan cheese
2 t  Olive oil
6    Garlic clove, crushed
1 cn Crushed Italian tomatoes
-(28 oz)
1 cn Tomato sauce (8.5 oz)
1 cn Tomato paste (8 oz)
1 sm Onion, minced
1 sm Jalapeno pepper, cut into
Before she played meddlesome restauranteur Lisa Mitchell on CBS's AS
THE WORLD TURNS, Eileen Fulton thought cooking was for the dogs. Or
at least one dog. Years ago, Fulton cooked full-course meals for her
Pekingese, Sarah Bernhardt.

"I simply didn't trust what was in the dog-food can," explains
Fulton, who has since acquired two Shih Tzus: Simone Signoret and Sir
Laurence Olivier. "I'd cook Sarah boiled chicken and rice and
asparagus and steamed string beans, but she had the most terrible
gastrointestinal problems. When I told the vet what I was feeding
her, he said, 'Put her back on dog food right now.'"

Although her dog food days in the kitchen are over, Fulton still
enjoys cooking for herself and for her two-legged friends. She's
especially nuts about noodles. "I eat pasta five nights a week. I
learned how to cook it when I was married to husband number two,
Danny Fortunata," says the thrice-divorced actress. "His mother,
Hilda, taught me how to make what the Italians call gravy, or what we
call sauce."

Sauce is exactly what Fulton was full of when she made her acting and
singing debut at the age of 2: "Daddy was a Methodist preacher. It
was Good Friday, and everyone in church was singing this awful hymn
called 'There Is a Fountain Filled with Blood.' I heard that, and I
ran down the aisle, jumped on the altar, and sang 'Put on the
skillet, put on the bread, Mammy's gonna make a little shortening
bread.' I was ushered out of the church in a hurry."

In a large, heavy pot, heat olive oil until sizzling. Add garlic and
cook until lightly browned. Add tomatoes, sauce, paste, onion, and
jalapeno. Simmer for 30 minutes; cook pasta. Add lemon juice, sugar,
wine, and salt to sauce. Remove jalapeno and serve over pasta. Top
with cheese. Submitted By MICHAEL ORCHEKOWSKI   On   10-31-94

