Title: Flaming Fajitas
Categories: Tex/mexican, Alcohol, Main dish, Beef
Yield: 4 servings
No Ingredients Found
Keywords: salsa, tomato, cilantro, cream, sour, brandy

Cookbook author Jane Butel specializes in Southwestern inspired foods
that are hot and spicy.  In fact, the cookbook she was promoting on
"LIVE" is called "Hotter Than Hell", which is exactly what happened
on the show. The fajitas flamed superbly during the promo, but that
made the skillet so hot that the Teflon surface came off and the
mixture couldn't sustain a flame! Janes' recipe for fajitas is ideal
for entertaining. After flaming the steak (carefully!), keep the meat
and tortillas warm and serve them with salsa, chopped onions, sour
cream, and guacamole. Let your guests 'build' their own creations.
1-1/2 lbs very lean skirt or bottom round steak, cut 1/4 inch thick
and trimmed of visible fat 1 lime 4 large garlic cloves, pressed
through a garlic press 1-2 tsp crushed red pepper flakes (or pequin
quebrado) 2 tsp vegetable oil 1/4 cup brandy 4-6 12 inch tortillas
4-6 romaine lettuc leaves, cut crosswise into 1 inch strips, salsa,
chopped onions, chopped tomatoes, chopped fresh cilantro, sour cream
and guacamole, for serving with the fajitas, if desired Cut the steak
into 4-6 equal size rectangles.  Pound the steak pieces to flatten
them as this as possible. Cut the lime in half and squeeze the juice
over both sides of each piece of steak.  Sprinkle the garlic evenly
over the steak and then press in the pequin or pepper flakes. Stack
the steaks on a plate and let stand for about 30 minutes.  Preheat
the oven to 250F. Place a large well seasoned cast iron skillet over
high heat for about 20 minutes, or until very hot. At the same time,
stack the tortillas, wrap in foil, and place in the oven along with
4-6 dinner plates. Add the oil to the skillet and quickly sear the
meat on both sides. Add the brandy to the hot skillet. Flame the meat
by touching the brandy with a lighted match and let the flames burn
down. Keep a large piece of foil or skillet lid nearby in case the
flames rise too high.  Just cover them until they subside.  Top the
warm tortillas with lettuce and pieces of steak.  Garnish with salsa,
onion, tomatoes, cilantro, sour cream, and guacamole, if desired.  To
serve, roll each tortilla around the mixture.  Makes 4-6 fajitas.
Origin: Cooking with Regis and Kathie Lee. Shared by: Sharon Stevens,
Nov/94.

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   11-20-94

