Title: Fried Squash Blossoms with Celery Sauce
Categories: Native amer, Vegetable
Yield: 6 servings
MMMMM-------------------FRIED SQUASH BLOSSOMS------------------------
-coarsely chopped
1    Garlic clove, finely chopped
1/2 ts Salt
1/4 ts White pepper
30    Squash blossoms, preferably
-male
2 c  To 3 cups vegetable oil
1    Green anaheim chile
1/2 c  Water
1    Egg, beaten
1 c  All purpose flour
1/2 c  Heavy cream
1 tb Unsalted butter
1    Onion, finely chopped
2    Tomatoes, peeled, seeded and
MMMMM------------------------CELERY SAUCE-----------------------------
1/2 ts Salt
1 lb Celery, leaves and stalks
3 tb Unsalted butter
Roast, peel, seed and dice the anaheim chile.

In a bowl, mix together the water, egg, vlour, and cream to make the
batter and set aside 1 hour.

Melt the butter in a sauce pan over medium-low heat and saute the
onion until it is translucent.  Add the tomatoes, chile, garlic, salt
and pepper, reduce heat to low and simmer 15 minutes.  Stir
occasionally to prevent burning.  Remove from the heat and let cool.

To make the sauce, cut the celery into large chunks and place in a
pot with enough salted water to cover.  Bring to a boil over high
heat and cook about 20 minutes until celery is tender.

Drain the water, place the celery in a food processor and puree.
Strain through a fine sieve into a saucepan.

Heat the celery puree over medium low heat 8 to 10 minutes, until
reduced by half.  Add the butter and salt and stir together until the
sauce is smooth and shiny.  Keep warm until the squash blossoms are
fried.

Remove stamens from male squash blossoms.  Fill each blossom with
about 1 tablespoon of the sauteed vegetables and spices, pull
together the tip of the blossom to seal in the filling, and gently
dip it into the batter, covering the entire blossom.

Heat the oil in a large saucepan or fryier untilo it is very hot but
not smoking.  Gently drop each blossom into the oil.  Fry 3 to 5
minutes, turning once, until the blossoms are golden brown.  Remove
the blossoms with a slotted spoon and drain on paper towels.

Using a sharp knife, slice each blossom twice diagonally.  Spoon
about 1/4 cup sauce onto each of 6 plates, top with the fried squash
blossoms and serve hot. *****************

Squash blossoms, considered by the Zuni tribe in western New Mexico
to be great delicacies, are eaten and enjoyed in many of the pueblos
along the Rio Grande.  The flowers are carefully gathered in the
early morning before the blossoms open up to the sun.  Male blossoms
are gathered because they do not bear fruit and are larger than the
female blossoms - and better able to hold their form when used in
cooking. There are several commercial growers willing to ship the
male blossoms to the consumer, but the female blossoms that are
attached to the baby squash found in specialty markets can also be
used.

From "Native American Cooking," by Lois Ellen Frank
Submitted By HILDE MOTT   On   11-19-94

