Title: Fruit Sweet and Sugar Free - Carob-Almond Pinwheel Cookie
Categories: Diabetic, Cake/cookie, Nuts/grains, Chocolate
Yield: 50 cookies
MMMMM--------------------ALMOND COOKIE LAYER-------------------------
1/4 t  Vanilla extract
1    Egg
2 c  White flour
2/3 c  Butter
1/2 c  Fruit sweetener
3/4 t  Almond extract
MMMMM---------------------CAROB COOKIE LAYER--------------------------
1    Egg
1 1/2 c  White flour
1/4 c  Carob powder
2/3 c  Butter
1/2 c  Fruit sweetener
1 t  Vanilla extract
Prepare the almond cookie layer first by creaming the butter and
sweetener. When light and fluffy, add the extracts and the egg and
beat until smooth. Fold in the flour. Roll the dough out between 2
sheets of baking paper or waxed paper to form a 12 inch by 16 inch
rectangle. Transfer the dough to a baking pan and refrigerate while
preparing the carob cookie layer. Prepare the carob cookier layer by
creaming the butter and sweetener. When light and fluffly, add the
extracts and the egg and beat until smooth. Sift together the flour
and carob powder. Then fold them into the cookie mixture. Roll the
dough out between two sheets of baking paper or waxed paper to form a
12 inch by 16 inch rectangle. Remove the top sheet of paper from both
the carob and the almond cookie layers, and invert the whole carob
layer onto the chilled almond cookie layer. Refrigerate both layers
for 10 minutes. To prepare the pinwheels, remove the top sheet of
paper. Starting on the long side of the dough, roll it up tightly,
jelly-roll fashion. If the layers are too cold to roll easily, let
them sit at room temperature for a few minutes, until they will roll
without breaking. Wrapt the wroll in the bottom sheet of paper, and
refrigerate for one hour before slicing into cookies. Preheat the
oven to 375 degrees. Line baking sheets with baking paper. Cut the
chilled roll into 1/4 inch thick slices. Place the cookies 1/2 inch
apart on baking sheets. Bake until a pale golden brown, for about 12
minutes. Let the cookies cool on the pans before removing them.
Submitted By JANE KNOX   On   11-10-94

