Title: Gaastesteg Med Aebler Og Svedsker (Roast Goose W/apples)
Categories: European, Apples, Poultry, Main dish, Fruit
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM------------------------INGREDIENTS-----------------------------
-coarsely chopped
2 c  Dried prunes; presoaked,
-pitted and coarsely chopped
1 lg Onion; peeled & quartered
8 lb Young goose (to 10 lb)
1/2 ea Lemon
Salt & fresh ground pepper
2 c  Apples; peeled, cored and
MMMMM-------------------------DIRECTIONS------------------------------
Preheat oven to 325oF. To prepare this classic Danish Christmas dish,
first wash the goose under cold running water. Pat it thoroughly dry
with paper towels and rub inside and out with lemon. Lightly salt and
pepper the inside and stuff the cavity with the coarsely chopped
apples, prunes and onion quarters. Close by lacing skewers or by
sewing with heavy white thread. Fasten the neck skin to the back of
the goose with a skewer and truss the bird securely so that it will
keep it's shape while cooking. Roast goose on a rack set in a shallow
open pan for 3 to 3 1/2 hours (about 20 to 25 minutes per pound). As
the goose fat accumulates in the pan, draw it off with a bulb baster
or large kitchen spoon. Basting the goose itself is unnecessary. To
test whether the bird is done, pierce the thigh with the tip of a
small sharp knife. If the juice that runs out is still somewhat pink,
roast another 5 to 10 minutes or until juices run clear or pale
yellow. When done, turn off oven leaving the finished bird to set
with the door ajar for 15 minutes to make it easier to carve.
Transfer the goose to a large heated platter and remove the string
and skewers. Scoop out the stuffing and discard it. The fruits and
onion will have imparted their flavor to the goose but will be far
too fatty to serve. Traditionally, poached apples stuffed with prunes
(see recipe) are served with the Christmas goose. Red cabbage and
carmelized potatoes (see recipes) complete the Christmas menu in
Denmark.

Submitted By EARL SHELSBY   On   11-09-94

