Title: Halloween Chocolate Spiders and Webs
Categories: Snack, Holiday, Chocolate
Yield: 1 servings
Spider web pattern (follows)
1 sm Package (6 oz or 1 cup)
-semisweet chocolate chips
In the top of a double boiler over barely simmering water, stir the
chocolate until melted; remove from heat.  Let stand over water until
chocolate is cool but still fluid, about 10 minutes.  Or melt
chocolate in microwave.  lay pattern on a 12x15-inch baking sheet and
cover with waxed paper. Put chocolate into a pastry bag fitted with
1/4-inch diameter tip or a paper cone; fold top edge down to seal.
Squeeze chocolate out of pastry bag onto waxed paper, tracing spider
or web designs that show through from the pattern underneath.  If
chocolate is too runny to hold lines, let cool a little more.  As pan
is filled, transfer pattern to another 12x15-inch, cover with waxed
paper and continue. Chill spiders or webs on pan until firm, about 10
minutes. Gently peel paper away from chocolate. Spiders and webs are
delicate and melt fast, so handle gently and quickly. If made ahead,
arrange in single layers, separated by waxed paper; store airtight in
the refrigerator up to 2 weeks. Serve as candy or to top desserts.
Makes about 2 dozen spiders or 1 dozen webs. Spider and Web Pattern.
On a 12x15-inch sheet of light-colored paper, boldly draw at least 1
pattern for spider and web.  You can either repeat the pattern as you
pipe the chocolate onto the waxed paper, or you can draw a pattern
that includes designs for multiple items. Start with spider legs:
draw a half circle that is 1-1/2 inches across. Inside and about 1/4
inch parallel to it, draw another half circle. Back to back to the
big half circle, repeat the 2 curved lines; you now have 8 legs.
Where the lines curve together, draw a small circle to intersect all
4 lines to make the body. Draw a small circle for the head on top the
first circle. For the web, draw a 4-inch long cross.  Draw diagonal
lines to bisect the quadrants. Connect these spokes with concentric
loops.

Submitted By PAT STOCKETT   On   10-22-94

