Title: Halloween Cat Poop Cookies
Categories: Cake/cookie, Holiday
Yield: 1 servings
-poops(rolled in
-grape-nuts, which
Makes lovely fake kitty
-litter.
Here, by popular
-request(believe it or not)
-is the recipe for my famous
Disgusting cookies that
-look like cats
last warning-many of you may not want to read this! this is the
recipe for little gator's famous "deep sh*t cookies" there are two
flavors-chocolate (dark brown), and gingerbread (light brown) I
seldom measure carefully so amounts may need adjustment, especially
on flavoring. the cookies are dense and not very sweet, this is
necesssary so that they will keep their shape during baking.  If you
use white flour or sugar they may be tastier but they won't look like
sh++. chocolate ingredients: 1/2 cup honey 2/3 cup (1 and 1/3 stick)
butter, margarine, or lard 1 egg 1 tsp vanilla or peppermint extract
2 cups whole wheat flour 1/3 cup cocoa powder grape-nuts(tm) cereal
gingerbread ingredients: 1/4 cup honey 1/4 cup molasses 2/3 cup(1 and
1/3 stick) butter or margarine, or lard 1 egg 2 and 1/3 cups whole
wheat flour spices-ginger, cinnamon, cloves to taste(maybe 1/2 tsp
each) grape-nuts(tm) cereal mix-ins: coconut(tapeworms) chocolate
chips butterscotch chips peanut butter chips cooked spagetti or ramen
noodles(roundworms) corn peanuts "those puffy pastel things you find
at chinese restaurants (to look like the cat ate styrofoam packing
pellets-i haven't tried this) to make: microwave the honey till it
bubbles(about 1 minute). add the butter,(i've bee n told using lard
makes for a more realistic texture and softer cookie) and the
molasses, if any. add the egg, mix well, then mix in all the other
stuff. add mix-ins of your choice to some or all of the batter. chill
1 hour in the freezer or several hours in the fridge. roll dough logs
of random length and the diameter of cat poops. roll logs in
grape-nuts and bake at 350 degrees till done(maybe 10 to 15 minutes
but with my flaky oven you never know). serve in a disposable cat
litter box on a bed of grapenuts, with a cat litter scoop. i hear you
get lovely effects by decorating the box and scoop with melted
chocolate or pudding. i imagine brown sugar might work as a
substitute for the new clumping litters, but i havent tried it. this
recipe worked especially well at the halloween party where the table
was already decorated with plastic flies.

Submitted By RICH HARPER   On   10-21-94

