Title: Hard Cooking Egg Tips
Categories: Cheese/eggs, Information
Yield: 1 servings
-of the year.  Here are
-some tips for best
qt Hard cooked eggs.
Hard cooking eggs sounds
-like a simple task, but it
-is one that brings
Us lots of calls this time
Place the eggs, one layer deep, in a large pan and add cold water to
reach 1 inch above the eggs.  Cover the pan and bring the water to a
boil quickly over medium high heat.  As soon as the boiling point is
reached, turn the heat source to low and let the pan stand, covered,
on the heat source for 20 minutes. Once the eggs are cooked, they
should be cooled down quickly under cold running water, then put in
ice water for 10 minutes. After that, place them in an uncovered bowl
in the fridge for short term storage, not more than 5 days for
optimum quality. Be sure to refrigerate the eggs as much as possible
between cooking, decorationg, hunting, or displaying. If some eggs
crack during the cooking process, they should be used the same day.
Bacteria could enter the eggs through the cracked shells, causing
spoilage. Do not try to hard cook already cracked eggs. Cracked eggs
should be thrown out. If the hard cooked eggs are to be eaten, they
should not be left at room temperature more than two hours. This
timing hold true as well for eggs that go into Easter baskets or are
part of an egg hunt. If you attend an egg hunt where you don't know
how the eggs have been cooked, it is better to throw them away rather
than risk getting sick. Eggs can be dyed with food coloring or a
commercial egg dying kit. To dye with food coloring, add 1 tsp
vinegar and 20 drops of coloring to a half cup of hot water.  Dip
hard cooked eggs until desired shade is reached. To achieve different
shades, the food coloring can be mixed. Eggs dyed with food coloring
will be more intense in color than those dipped in the commercial
dye. While uncooked eggs will keep up to three weeks in their carton
under refrigeration, hard cooked eggs will keep only a short time
because the egg's protective coating has been removed during cooking.
To remove shell froma hard cooked egg, crackle it by tapping gently
all over. Roll egg between hands to loosen shell, then peel, starting
at the large end. Hold egg under running cold water or dip in bowl of
water to help ease off shell. Shelled hard cooked eggs may be
marinated in pickled beet juice to produce a red purple color.  Store
in refrigerator until serving time, then cut into wedges. Origin:
Journal American, March 24, 1993 Shared by: Sharon Stevens

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   10-18-94

