Title: Home-Style Inner Beauty Hot Sauce (Jamaica)
Categories: Caribbean, Condiment, Salsa/sauce
Yield: 1 batch
1/4 c  White vinegar
1 tb Curry powder
1 tb Ground cumin
1 tb Chili powder
1/2 ts Salt; or to taste
1 ts Black pepper; or to taste
12    To 15 habanero (Scotch
-- Bonnet) chile peppers
-- roughly chopped
1    Ripe mango; peeled
-- pitted and mashed
1 c  Cheap yellow mustard
1/4 c  Packed brown sugar
WARNING: Hottest sauce in North America. Use this to enhance dull and
boring food. Keep away from pets, open flames, unsupervised children,
and bad advice. This is not a toy. This is serious. Stand up
straight, sit right, and stop mumbling. Be careful not to rub your
nose, eyes, or mouth while working with habaneros. You may actually
want to wear rubber gloves while chopping and mixing -- these babies
are powerful.

Curtis sez: "Wear the rubber gloves. Trust me on this."

Mix all the ingredients together and stand back. This will keep,
covered and refrigerated, until the year 2018. Be careful though: If
it spills, it will eat a hole in your refrigerator. If you ever want
to dispose of it, call the local toxic waste specialists.

Curtis adds: "I pull the stems off the peppers and discard them. Then
I cut off the tops of the peppers (including the hard stem root
button), toss the tops in a food processor with all the other
ingredients, and puree thoroughly. Then I coarsely chop the bodies of
the peppers (including seeds and placenta; otherwise what is the
point?), add them to the food processor, and pulse a few times just
to mix, but not enough to further chop the peppers."

NOTES : This style of hot sauce, widely used in the West Indies, is
basically habanero peppers (also known as Scotch Bonnets), fruit, and
yellow mustard, with a few other ingredients thrown in. Use this
recipe as a guideline. Habaneros are at the top of the chile pepper
heat scale, so feel free to substitute other peppers of your choice.

Funnel the sauce into an old pint liquor bottle, then let your
imagination run free as to what whopper you can lay on your guests
regarding its origins. If you're having trouble, here's a start: "One
day in Jamaica I was in this dingy bar and met this old guy who..."
and you take it from there.

From "Big Flavors of the Hot Sun" by Chris Schlesinger.  Posted in
rec. food.recipes by cjackson@mv.us.adobe.com (Curtis Jackson).
Formatted by Cathy Harned. From: Cathy Harned Date: 10-16-94
Submitted By DALE SHIPP   On   11-25-94

