Title: Indian Tacos
Categories: Native amer, Beans, Main dish
Yield: 6 servings
1    Red onion, thinly sliced
1    Bunch red radishes, sliced
24    Golden yellow plum tomatoes,
-cut in half
6    Green anaheim chiles
1 lg Red bell pepper, or red
-anaheim chile
1 1/2 c  Dried anasazi beans
6    Pieces Indian Frybread,
-about 6 inches in diameter
1 1/2 c  Mache or arugula, washed &
-stemmed
1 lg Red ripe tomato, sliced
2    Ripe avocados, halved and
-sliced
To prepare the anasazi beans, soak overnight in twater to cover.  The
next day, drain the beans and place them in a saucepan with fresh
water to cover.  Bring to a boil, reduce the heat, and let the beans
simmer until the skins break, about 3 hours.  It may be necessary to
add water as the beans cook to prevent them from burning and
sticking. After the beans are cooked, remove from the heat and set
aside. You should have about 3 cups cooked beans.

While the beans are cooking, roast, seed, and devein the chiles and
the pepper.  Leave chiles whole; slice pepper lengthwise into six
strips.

To start building the tacos, place 1/2 cup cooked beans on each piece
of frybread.  Add 1/4 cup greens per taco, followed by a red tomato
slice. Add 4 slices avocado and 1 slice red onion, separated into
rings. Follow with radishes and 4 golden yellow plum tomatoes per
taco, and top with 1 roasted green chile and 2 slices roasted red
pepper or chile. You can vary the toppings and the order in which the
taco is built. *****

The Indian taco has become on of today's best-known Native American
dishes. It is served at national fairs, intertribal powwows, and
community events, both on the reservations and in urban areas.

Its base, unlike the more familiar Mexican-style tacos, is frybread,
amde from a light dough and considered to be of Navajo origin.
Traditionally, it was prepared with lard, but now more and more
people are using vegetable oil for frying.

The anasazi bean is a medium-size bean spotted reddish brown and
white. It was originally cultivated by the Anasazi people, the now
extinct cliff dwellers of the ancient Southwest.  For many years this
bean was seldom used and hard to find, but it is slowly gaining in
popularity in the commercial market.  It can be found in health food
markets and can also be ordered by mail.  If you wish to substitute,
I suggest using pink beans.

From "Native American Cooking," by Lois Ellen Frank
Submitted By HILDE MOTT   On   10-29-94

