Title: Jerry Orbach's Guiltless Yuletide French Fries
Categories: Side dish, Potato, Holiday
Yield: 4 servings
-1/2" discs
Salt to taste
Pepper to taste
Garlic powder to taste
1 tb Paprika
Whole red and green chili
-peppers for garnish
1/3 c  Extra-virgin olive oil or
-vegetable oil
1    Red chili pepper, seeded
-and halved
1    Green chili pepper, seeded
-and halved
1    Bay leaf
5 lg Idaho potatoes, sliced into
"One of my favorite food memories," reminisces Jerry Orbach, who plays
Detective Lennie Briscoe on NBC's critically acclaimed LAW & ORDER,
"is of my grandmother picking the cherries off our cherry trees and
preserving them to make cherry pies. At least two of the pies would
have my initials on top. Those were the ones that were reserved
especially for me."

Orbach no longer allows himself to eat two pies - "because I watch my
weight for the camera," - or anther of the his favorite foods, "the
fattening French dish POMMES SOUFFLEES, or twice-fried potatoes." But
this recipe for Yuletide French Fries lets the veteran stage actor
have a treat. "I eat these 'guiltless' french fries instead, and they
satisfy me almost as much," says Orbach.

The talented Tony-winning actor also relishes his role as the acerbic
Briscoe. "It's a rush to play the authority figure," he says. "It's
just like when you were a kid and you always wanted to play the cop
or the principal."

OIL (PREPARE THE NIGHT BEFORE SERVING): Pour olive or vegetable oil
into a measuring cup. Add red and green chili peppers and bay leaf.
Cover cup and refrigerate overnight to flavor oil.

FRENCH FRIES: Preheat oven to 350'F. Place potatoes in large mixing
bowl. Season with salt, pepper, garlic powder, and paprika. Remove
peppers and bay leaf from oil. Toss potatoes with oil. Place in
shallow baking pan. Bake for 35-40 minutes or until golden-brown,
turning several times to allow to brown evenly and to keep from
sticking. Transfer to serving platter and garnish with whole chilies.
Submitted By MICHAEL ORCHEKOWSKI   On   11-26-94

