Title: Jewish Style Greek Salad
Categories: Salad, Greek, Jewish, Vegetable
Yield: 1 servings
*seeded, and sliced into
*1/2-inch pieces
1 ea Green bell pepper, cored
*seeded, and sliced into
*1/2-inch pieces
Black and green olives
2 ea Fillets pickled herring,
*cut into small pieces
2 c  Salad dressing
4    Stalks celery, sliced into
1/2-inch pieces
2 ea Cucumbers, peeled & sliced
*into 1/2-inch pieces
2 ea Red onions, quartered &
*sliced
4 ea Tomatoes, cut into eighths
2 ea Carrots, thinly sliced
1 ea Red bell pepper, cored,
In a large bowl, combine all the vegetables and herring pieces.  Mix
well. Add the salad dressing and mix. Let the salad stand for several
hours in the refrigerator. Serve with lots of good, hearty bread.
Makes 4 to 6 servings.

NOTE: When I was a child you could go into one of those marvelous
old-fashioned Jewish appetizing stores and indulge your senses in
a millions ways.  You were simply surrounded by wonderful things
to eat: hard candies, the kind that has soft jam filling inside,
all wrapped in beautiful multicolored papers; barrels of pickles
to make your mouth water and pucker; an array of smoked fish that
was mind-boggling; and, among the fishes and herring, potato
salads and coleslaw, there was always a beautiful tray of what
was called Greek salad.

When I grew up I learned that it wasn't really a Greek salad, for
obviously herring was substituted for anchovies (a fish not
familiar to Eastern European Jews), and there wasn't a trace of
feta cheese, so as to keep it parve and kosher, but it was then
and still remains one of my all time favorite salads.  I've tried
to reproduce it to the best of my memory.  I hope you like it as
much as I do.

Greek salad makes a wonderful summer lunch when served with a
hearty black bread and butter and a bowl of cold ruby-red
borscht.

Recipe: Mama Leah's Jewish Kitchen, A Compendium Of More Than 225
Tasty Recipes -- Kugel To Kasha -- Blintzes To Borscht -- by Leah Loeb
Fischer with Maria Poluskin Robbins. Copyrighted 1990  Published by
MacMillan Publishing Company. Shared by: David Pileggi

Date: 06-23-94
From: Sharon Stevens
Submitted By JR BYERS   On   12-03-94

