Title: Legumes #13 Mung Beans
Categories: Beans, Information, Asian
Yield: 1 informed
MMMMM--------------------------LEGUMES-------------------------------
---------> sources <--------
See "Legumes #01 ", for list
Researched, and shared by
Dorothy Hair   06/94
Mung Beans
(Phaselous aureus)
Bean Thread Vermicelli
Mung Bean Flour
:
:
:
:
:
:
:
:

The Mung bean (Vigna radiata) is a hairy, erect, bushy plant that
grows to 3 feet with small, round, green beans (Phaselous aureus)
that are extensively used in Asian cooking.

The young leaves and green pods of the mung bean can be used as a
vegetable. The pods can be dried, boiled whole, or split; or else
parched and ground into flour. Although usually we may be more
familiar with the mung bean in sprouted form, the legumes are also
dried and boiled as lentils; cracked to use in patties and fritters;
and ground into flour, used mainly for desserts. Mung beans, cooked
into a porridge with ginger, were once widely acclaimed in Asia as a
remedy for beriberi.

The green lentil is in fact a mung bean, which is used in India in its
dried state to make dal. Red Mung beans are more popular than their
green cousin in the Indian states of Gujarat and Rajasthan. Here they
are cooked ripe as a vegetable, are dried to use as a dal or are
sprouted. The fresh sprouts are very crunchy and are available in
most Asian markets, where the mung beans sprouts are also sold
canned. The Cantonese remove the roots and seed pods of the mung bean
sprouts and stir-fry them with wide rice ribbon noodles.

In the Sichuan province of China, a mung bean jelly is made that is
similar to the soybean curd. It can be candied as snacks and it is
also added to desserts. Bite sized cubes of the bean jelly, dipped in
spicy condiments, are sold by street vendors and in restaurants. One
specialty of the province is crucian carp steamed in a sauce of
chilies, fermented black beans, and garlic, with cubed mung bean
jelly added at the last moment. The texture is slightly rubbery; the
flavor neutral, and it nicely absorbs the accompanying seasonings.

The clear jelly-like "cellophane" vermicelli used in China, Vietnam
and many other parts of Asia is made from mung flour. It is made by
extruding a paste of mung bean flour and water, which is then dried.
Bean thread vermicelli is cooked as noodles and is used in soups,
braised dishes and hot pots. In Sichuan and neighboring Tibet, it is
softened in water, then stir-fried with shredded black wood fungus,
chili and bean pastes to make a delicious vegetarian dish. In
Indonesia, Malaysia and Singapore, and to a lesser extent, in other
parts of Southeast Asia, the boiled noodles are added to sweet drinks
and desserts, usually in combination with palm sugar syrup, coconut
milk, and diced vegetables such as yam or sweet potato, or sweet corn
kernels. When dry they are so tough that they become slippery, soft
and gelatinous. In appearance and characteristics they are similar to
the Japanese shirataki noodles, for which, being more readily
available, they can be substituted.

Mung Bean Flour resembles arrowroot in appearance and cooking
properties. It is sold in three forms; in its natural color, or dyed
pink or green, for use in making a variety of popular South Asian
sweets. Arrowroot or tapioca flour, tinted with food coloring, or
pandanus essence can be substituted

*
*

These little beans are the easiest of all to sprout. Soak a handful
overnight in a glass container. Next day, strain them, and cover the
container with cheese-cloth. Put them in a dark place and keep them
slightly moist- not dry or they will shrivel, and not wet or they will
mold. When sprouts are 1 inch to 2 inches long, usually within 3
days, they are ready. They are long, silvery in color, with a small
yellow-green pod on top. Before they are eaten they should be exposed
to the sun to manufacture chlorophyll. Seeds double their nutritive
value when sprouted; and the amount of folic acid, which prevents
pernicious anemia quadruples. Use sprouts in salads, sandwiches, or
in soup. They can also be sauteed very lightly in oil so they will
retain their juicy, crunchy texture. They have a delicate taste and
are crisp but perishable.

Date:  06-03-94
From: Dorothy Hair
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   11-07-94

