Title: Mom's German Meatballs ?
Categories: Main dish, German, Ground beef, Meatballs
Yield: 12 servings
4 c  Garlic
1/2    Med Onion; small dice
Boiling water
Flour;  for dredging
Fat; for cooking
I use Crisco
2 lb Ground beef
2    Egg
2 ts Salt
1 tb Mustard seed
1 ts Celery seed; whole
1/2 ts Pepper
3 tb Catsup
MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
1 tb Sugar
1 ts Salt
Pepper;  taste
Water
1 qt Water
1 c  Catsup
1 tb Flour
4 tb Cornstartch
1 tb Vinegar
This is the recipe I promised to send. It is a bit of a task to
prepare, but well worth the effort. The recipe was passed down for
many generations in my husbands family who immigrated here from
Russia (being Russian Jews) so, I have no idea why they called it "
German" meatballs, but a meatball by any other name...I guess! Slice
the garlic into a water glass and pour 2 T boiling water over it.
Mash the garlic well, then add 2 T. more boiling water. Strain
through a kitchen towel, saving the liquid only. Mix together all the
ingredients, including garlic liquid then shape into balls about the
size of a large egg. Roll the balls in the flour until well coated.
Melt enough fat to make about 1/2" in a heavy skillet or cast iron
cooking pot. Brown the meat balls in the fat. Remove the meatballs
and pour off all but 4 T. of the fat. Sauce and balance of cooking
instructions follow next page: Ingredients: SAUCE: Add 1 qt. water to
the reserved fat along with the catsup. Make a paste of the next six
ingredients, then mix in enough water to get a consistency of a thin
cream. After the water-catsup mixture is warm, slowly add this
mixture, stirring constantly to avoid lumping, until the mixture has
been well absorbed into the liquid. Cook gently until the sauce is
slightly thickened. Place meatball in the pan, or in an oven-proof
roaster and make sure they are covered with the sauce. Cover pan and
bake in hot oven for 1 hour. Serve with mashed potatoes. (My friends
also love it with pasta or rice!) Enjoy! Barbara Manhattan Beach, Ca
FROM: BARBARA DAY   (GWHP32A)

