Title: Mrs. D's Chocolate Peanut Fudge
Categories: Chocolate, Candy, Holiday
Yield: 18 servings
pn Salt
1 t  Pure vanilla extract
Unsalted butter
1 1/2 c  Unsalted peanuts, shelled
2 c  Granulated sugar
1 c  Whole milk
1/2 c  Hershey's unsweetened cocoa
"The explosion of flavor that takes place when you put a piece of
chocolate in your mouth is phenomenal," says Marcel Desaulniers, host
of The Learning Channel's DEATH BY CHOCOLATE. "I don't think there is
any other flavor you can put into your mouth that so instantly
pleases the palate. Scientists say that it's the melting of the
chocolate and the absorption of the heat on your tongue that cause
this sensation that's not unlike a ... you-know-what."

Historically, however, chocolate has sometimes been used for purposes
more sordid than sweet. "Centuries ago in Mexico," Desaulniers points
out, "before the Aztecs sacrificed their victims, they'd sanctify
them by having them drink several cups of cocoa, which was, in those
times, served cold. The victim was then sacrificed to the gods, but
before the victim's heart stopped beating, it was held up as an
offering to Quetzalcoatl, the Diety of Chocolate."

Chocolate has held a similarly strange power over Desaulniers, who
operates the award-winning Trellis Restautant in Williamsburg, Va.
"When I was a marine stationed in Vietnam," he recalls, "ninety-nine
percent of the time we were eating cold, canned turkey loaf or canned
ham and lima beans. This stuff was pretty grim eating, so the thing
you fantasized and talked about most was food. My reminiscences were
all inclined to be about chocolate and confections. I would fantasize
about Rabelaisian romps through pools of warm chocolate sauce."

You may wind up fantasizing about this recipe for Mrs. D.'s Chocolate
Peanut Fudge, too. Mrs. D., of course, is Marcel's mother, who first
fed this fudge to her son when he was 2.

Preheat oven to 325'F. Toast peanuts on a baking sheet for 6-7
minutes, until golden brown. Remove from oven and set aside. Heat
sugar, milk, cocoa, and salt in a 2 1/2 quart saucepan over medium
heat. Stir until mixture is smooth and sugar dissolves. Bring to a
boil. Adjust heat to medium-low. Insert candy thermometer, and allow
mixture to cook until it reaches a temperature of 245'F., about 20-25
minutes. Using a rubber spatula, scrape down the sides of the
saucepan every 5 minutes or so. Remove saucepan from heat. Vigorously
stir in vanilla and 3 tablespoons of butter. Fold in peanuts and pour
mixture into lightly buttered 9x9x2" square cake pan. Cool to room
temperature, about 45 minutes, before cutting and serving. Makes
about 1 1/2 pounds. Submitted By MICHAEL ORCHEKOWSKI   On   11-21-94

