Title: Nautical Nuggets
Categories: Chicken, Fruit, Main dish, Appetizer
Yield: 4 servings
No Ingredients Found
Jennifer Trainer and Elizabeth Wheeler, the co-authors of "The
Yachting Cookbook," both have had a lot of experience cooking on the
high seas. They developed this recipe on a 40 foot boat during a 10
day sail, from Maine to the British Virgin Islands.  They say their
challenge at sea is to creat recipes that use the freshest
ingredients with a minimum of fuss. This one would be wonderful for
parties - expecially kids' birthdays. Jennifer appeared as the book's
representative on "Live". Because a completed recipe must be ready
for Regis to taste at the end of a cooking segment, Jennifer found
herself (in curlers) at 5:30 am in the basement kitchen of the
appropriately named St Regis Hotel, cooking up a hero batch of
Nautical Nuggets alongside chefs who were preparing breakfast for
room service patrons. 6 boneless, skinless chicken breast halves salt
and freshly ground pepper to taste 1 tsp dried oregano leaves 1/2 cup
sour cream or plain yogurt 2 tbsp freshly squeezed lemon juice 1 tsp
tabasco 1 garlic clove, finely chopped 2 cups finely crushed
saltines, or Ritz crackers (about 40 crackers) 1/2 cup sesame seeds
1/4 cup unsalted butter, melted

Remove the tender fillet part of each breast and place it in a bowl.
Then cut each chicken breast diagonally into 3 strips and add these
to the bowl. Season with salt, pepper, and oregaon, rubbing the
seasoning into the chicken.  Add the sour cream, lemon juice,
tabasco, and garlic to this chicken in the bowl and turn the pieces
until they are thoroughly coated. Cover the chicken and marinate for
at least 1 hour, or refrigerate overnight. Preheat the oven to 400F.
Lightly oil a baking sheet. Spread the cracker crumbs and sesame
seeds in a shallow dish. One at a time, roll each piece of chicken in
the cracker crumb mixture untilevenly coated. Arrange the pieces on
the prepared baking sheet so that they are barely touching.  Drizzle
the melted butter evenly over the chicken. Bake the chicken for about
20 minutes, or until golden brown. Serve hot or at room temperature.
Makes 4-6 servings. Variation: Substitute pieces of firm fish such as
cod, monkfish, or halibut for the chicken. Origin: Cooking with Regis
& Kathie Lee Shared by: Sharon Stevens, Nov/94.

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   11-20-94

