Title: No More Tears About Onions
Categories: Information, Vegetable
Yield: 1 servings
No Ingredients Found
To avoid a tearful scene while chopping onions, hold a slice of bread
lightly between your front teeth.  You will look silly, and you will
also be forced to breat through your mouth, thus avoiding the
inhalation of onion fumes through your nose.  It is here that these
fumes trigger the reaction that starts the flow of tears.  Some old
cookbooks suggest holding a matchstick or a toothpick between your
front teeth for the same reason, but it's easier to forget and close
your mouth over one of these than over a slice of bread.  Of course,
you could just remember to breather through your mouth.

According to a newer theory, tears over onions are cause by vapors
that turn to acid on contact with the eye's surface.  Only one
protection works - a diver's mask, which, unlike other goggles, has
no ventilation holes. I fyou think you look silly with bread clenched
in your teeth, try cooking in a snorkel mask.  The good news is that
after multiple exposures you build up a tolerance, which suggests
that real cooks don't cry (except over spilled milk) Another method
useful if you are simply peeling the onion is to work under cool
running waer, which washes the juice and the fumes away before they
can rise to meet your nose or eyes.  This also helps keep the juice
form soaking into your hands and causing them to smell like onion for
hours afterward. A third method of preventing tears while preparing
onions requires a little prior planning. Keep a few onions in the
refrigerator, replacing them as used. A well chilled onion does not
emit fumes into the air while it is being chopped. If you do get
weepy and have lots more chopping to do, try this trick. Quikcly walk
to another part of the kitchen and sniff something strong - brandy,
mustard, perfume, laundry soap etc... If you give your nose a new job
~ smelling a completely different thing and telling your brain about
it - it will immediately forget about the onion fumes. Origin: Old
Farmer's Almanac, Hearth and Home Companion for 1995. Shared by:
Sharon Stevens, Nov/94.

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   11-02-94

