Title: Peach Dumplings
Categories: Dessert, Fruit
Yield: 1 servings
No Ingredients Found
From the August 1986 Bon Appetit "Cooking Class" with Cindy Pawlycn.
This recipe is pictured on page 47, and explained on pages 56, 57,
and 92.  This is a delightful turnover style desert, not at all what
one expects when one hears the word "Dumpling".  There are three
parts to this dumpling, a crust, a delightful filling and syrup, and
an orange custard that the dumpling floats in. All in all, this is a
bit of a bother, but all in all, it is more than worth it. 1 1/2 cups
water, 1/2 tsp Cinnamon, 3 TBSP unsalted butter, 3/4 cup unsalted
butter, 6 medium peaches (unpeeled), cut into 3/8 inch slices, 2 cups
all purpose flour, 1/4 tsp salt, 4 egg yolks at room temperature,  1
cup whipping cream, 1/4 cup fresh orange juice, and 1 TBSP grated
orange peel. INGREDIENT LIST 2 1/3 cups sugar, 1/4 tsp freshly ground
nutmeg, 2/3 cup unsalted butter, 2 tsp baking powder, 5/6 cup milk,
INSTRUCTIONS

Let's start with the orange custard sauce.  This can be made a day
ahead and refrigerated. Whisk together: 4 egg yolks at room
temperature, and 1/2 cup sugar in a medium bowl. In a heavy skillet,
scald: 1/3 cup milk, and 1 cup whipping cream stirring frequently.
Gradually stir in the yolk/sugar mixture.  Mix in: 1/4 cup fresh
orange juice, and 1 TBSP grated orange peel. Transfer the mixture to
the top of a double boiler set over simmering water. Whisk until the
custard is well thickened and leaves path on back of spoon when
finger is drawn across, about 15 minutes. Cool. Refrigerate until
well chilled. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead.) Now that the custard is
made, we can start on the rest of the dumpling. Preheat the oven to
375 degrees.  Now let's make the syrup. Mix together : 1 1/2 cups
water, 1 1/2 cups sugar, 1/4 tsp Cinnamon, and 1/4 tsp freshly ground
nutmeg in a medium heavy saucepan over low heat.  Swirl the pan
occasionally until the sugar disolves.  Increase the heat and boil
until the liquid is reduced to 1 1/2 cups.  Remove from heat and add:
3 TBSP unsalted butter. Let's do the dumplings filling.  Combine: 6
medium peaches (unpeeled), cut into 3/8 inch slices, 1/3 cup sugar,
and a pinch of cinnamon in a large bowl and set aside.  You may want
to stir this from time to time. And now for the dumplings themselves.
Mix together: 2 cups all purpose flour, 2 tsp baking powder, and 1/4
tsp salt in a large bowl. Then cut in: 2/3 cup well chilled unsalted
butter until the mixture resembles coarse meal. Then mix in: 1/2 cup
milk until the mixture just holds together. Gently roll out the dough
on a lightly floured surface until it is a 12 x 18 inch rectangle.
Cut this into six 6 inch squares. Place 2/3 cup of the peach filling
in the middle of each square of dough, and then fold the corners to
the center, mostly covering the filling. Pinch the center where the
folds of dough meet to seal the dumpling together. Place the
dumplings on a 11 x 17 inch baking pan, about 1 inch apart.  Pour the
syrup around the sides of the dumplings. Dot each dumpling with: 1
TBSP unsalted butter. Sprinkle lightly with sugar.  Bake until the
dumplings are golden brown, about 35 minutes. Allow them to cool
slightly.  Spoon the sauce (or custard) onto plates. Top with
dumplings and serve warm.

