Title: Peking Style Noodles with Bean Sauce and Mixed Garnish
Categories: Main dish, Chinese, Vegetarian, Pasta
Yield: 2 servings
4 tb Dark miso
3 tb Vegetable oil
1 1/2 c  Water
1 1/2 tb Soy sauce
1/2 ts Sugar
2 1/2 tb Cornstarch, dissolved in
3 tb Water
1/2 ts Sesame oil
8 oz Noodles
6 oz Plain pressed tofu
1/2 c  Green soybeans -=OR=-
2 oz Baby corn spears
1/2 c  Bamboo shoot, diced finely
2 oz Cucumber
1 ts Garlic, minced
3 tb Chinese bean sauce, -=OR=-
If you are cooking the noodles first, drain them, remove to a bowl or
serving platter, and toss with 1/2 tablespoon sesame oil to prevent
sticking (do not rinse in cold water as this reduces flavor).

Crumble the pressed tofu coarsely to yield 1-1/2 cups.

Parboil green soybeans till almost tender yet still firm (10 minutes
for frozen).  If using fresh baby corn spears, steam or parboil till
tender; if canned, rinse with boiling water.  Rinse green soybeans or
corn in cold water and chop finely.  You should have about 1/2 cup
baby corn.

It is not necessary to peel or seed the hothouse (English) or Oriental
cucumber.  Regular cucumber should be pared and seeded, but leave a
few narrow strips of skin for color and texture.  Julienne finely to
yield 1/2 cup.

If you are using miso, dissolve it in 1/4 cup warm water.

Put 3 tablespoons oil into a preheated pan over high.  When the oil
is hot, reduce heat to medium-high.  Add garlic and stir-fry a few
seconds to release aroma.  Add pressed tofu and bean sauce or miso.
Stir-fry briefly to mix.  Add 1-1/2 cups water, 1 tablepsoon soy
sauce, and 1/2 teaspoon sugar.  Cook, stirring occasionally, until
the boil is reached. Gradually stir in cornstarch mixture and cook,
stirring, another minute or so until the consistency is like a light
gravy, not too thick. Test for salt, and add an extra tablespoon soy
sauce if needed. (at this point, if you like, you can heat noodles
and/or green soybeans, baby corn, and bamboo shoot by combining with
the sauce until just mixed.) Add 1/2 teaspoon sesame oil. Remove from
the stove. Pour sauce over noodles, and top with garnish in separate
arrangement (garnish with just the cucumber if you have added
soybeans or baby corn and bamboo shoot to the sauce).  Toss before
serving.

Martin Sidham, "The Fragrant Vegetable", Typed by Karen Mintzias
Submitted By MARK SATTERLY   On   11-18-94

