Title: Potato Pizzazz Party
Categories: Side dish, Potato
Yield: 8 servings
1 1/2 tb Chopped fresh dill or mint
10 oz White mushrooms, stems
-trimmed
1 tb Fresh lemon juice
1 tb Extra-virgin olive oil
4    Ripe plum tomatoes, seeded
10    Russet potatoes, cleaned
1 c  Frozen peas
1 1/4 c  Nonfat plain yogurt
1/4 c  Reduced-calorie mayonnaise
Coarse salt to taste
Freshly ground black pepper,
-to taste
The Potato Pizzazz Party is perhaps the greatest surprise of my trio
of September recipes. Baked potatoes, hot from the oven, are
delicious and healthful with my choice of six garnishes - a tiny
salad of peas and potatoes, fresh mushrooms, tomatoes, red peppers,
parsley, and yogurt - arranged artfully around the spuds.

This dish also makes a wonderful autumn lunch or sunday supper. The
garnishes can be prepared ahead of time and refrigerated. - Shiela
Lukins

1. Preheat the oven to 375'F.

2. Peel 2 potatoes and cut into 1/4" dice. Place in a small saucepan,
cover with water and add a pinch of salt. Bring to a boil, reduce
heat and simmer for 4-5 minutes or until just tender. Drain and place
in a bowl.

3. Cook the peas in boiling water for 2-3 minutes, until tender.
Drain and add to the potatoes.

4. Combine 1/4 cup yogurt with mayonnaise and gently toss over the
cooked potatoes and peas. Season with salt and pepper. With a rubber
spatula, gently fold in the dill. Place in a pretty bowl and
refrigerate, covered, until time to serve.

5. Wipe the mushroom caps with a damp paper towel and slice thinly.
Toss with lemon juice and olive oil. Season with salt and pepper.
Place in a pretty bowl and refrigerate, covered, until time to serve.

6. Cut the tomatoes and bell pepper into 1/4" dice. Place the diced
tomatoes, diced bell pepper, parsley and remaining yogurt in four
individual pretty bowls. Refrigerate, covered, until time to serve.

7. Prick the remaining 8 potatoes with the tines of a fork and bake
in oven for 1 hour and 15 minutes. When skins are crispy and potatoes
are baked through, place in a decorative basket covered with a large,
pretty napkin to keep them warm.

Per serving (with all garnishes): 339 calories, 5 grams fat, 3
milligrams cholesterol.

NOTE: When serving the potatoes from a basket, set a small, sharp
knife on the side, so that your guests can slice their own potatoes
down the center. Garnishes should be served with small spoons in six
decorative bowls, arranged closely around the potatoes. Remember to
chop the garnishes into small dice, so they set well into the
potatoes. Submitted By MICHAEL ORCHEKOWSKI   On   10-24-94

