Title: Red Chile Adobo
Categories: Condiment, Chilies
Yield: 1 cup
-1 whole, 1 crushed
2 ts Lard or vegetable oil
2 tb All-purpose flour
1/2 ts Salt
4    Dried red chilies;
-stems intact
-about 2 oz
2 1/2 c  Water, divided
2 lg Garlic cloves
(adobo de chile colorado)

1. Heat a cast-iron griddle or a heavy skillet until hot. Rinse the
chilies. Place them on the hot griddle and toast ove moderate heat,
turning, until fragrant, about 1 minute.

2. Meanwhile, bring 1 1/2 cups of water to a boil in a small
saucepan. Add the chilies, lower the heat and simmer until softened,
about 10 minutes; use a wooden spoon to submerge the chilies if they
come to the surface. Drain the chilies.

3. Stem the chilies and scrape out the seeds. Place the chilies in a
blender with 1 cup of water and the whole garlic clove and puree.
Strain the puree through a sieve set over a bowl, pressing against
the solids to force through as much of the puree as possible.

4. In a small heavy saucepan, heat the lard until very hot but not
smoking. Add the crushed garlic clove and cook, stirring, over
moderately high heat for 10 seconds, until fragrant. Discard the
garlic clove. Add the flour and cook, stirring, until golden, about
30 seconds. Add the chili puree and cook over low heat for 3 minutes,
stirring. Season with the salt. The adobo can be refrigerated,
tightly covered, for up to 1 month or frozen for up to 3 months.

Note: Dried red New Mexico or Anaheim chilies are preferred, but you
can use any moderately hot dried red chili. Season with Mexican
origano and cumin, if desired. When you roast the chilies, be careful
not to scorch them or the dish will have an unpleasant, bitter taste.

Building Block: The intensity of heat and the taste of an adobo (a
marinade or sauce made with dried chilies) depends on the kind of
chilies you use. The techniquw of roasting them on a griddle brings
out their flavor.

Uses: Thin with chicken stock, pork stock or water and stew with pork
shoulder or blanched vegetables like green beans, potatoes or nopales.
Brush on pork chops, pork roast, grilled chicken or fish. Make as the
base for Tex-Mex chili con carne or cheese enchiladas. Use to enrich
a plain tomato sauce.

Lessons from Zarela's Kitchen by Zarela Martinez

Food and Wine Magazine Dec 1994
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   12-18-94

