Title: Roast Goose with Potatoes - Country Living Holidays
Categories: Potato, Holiday, Main dish, Poultry
Yield: 10 servings
3/4 t  Salt
1/4 t  Ground black pepper
1/4 c  Unsifted all-purpose flour
Bay leaves (opt.)
Halved pomegranates (opt.)
Roasted chestnuts (opt.)
1    14 to 14 1/2-lb fresh or
-thawed, frozen goose
1 sm Onion, chopped
1 lg Carrot, chopped
2    Bay leaves
5 lg Baking potatoes
1 T  Vegetable oil
NOTE: Goose has a high ratio of bones, skin, and fat to meat. You
should get about 40 oz of cooked meat (without skin or fat) from a
14-lb bird. Allow about 4 oz of cooked goose per serving.

1. Heat oven to 400'F. Remove neck and giblets from goose. Remove
excess fat from neck and body cavities. (Goose fat will be welcomed
by wild birds or may be rendered and used in cooking.) Rinse goose,
neck, and giblets and drain well.

2. With small metal skewer, fasten goose's neck skin to its back; cut
off and discard wing tips. Place goose, breast side up, on wire rack
in shallow roasting pan. With tines of fork, pierce skin of goose
well. Insert meat thermometer into inside thigh muscle, being careful
not to touch the bone.

3. Roast goose, uncovered, 1 hour. Meanwhile, in 2-quart saucepan,
cook neck and giblets over medium heat until well browned, stirring
occasionally. (If desired, exclude the liver; wrap and freeze for
another use.) Stir onion, carrot and bay leaves into giblets; add
enough water to cover. Heat to boiling over high heat. Reduce heat to
low, cover and simmer 1 hour.

4. Reduce oven temperature to 325'F and continue roasting goose 1 1/4
hours. During roasting, spoon off accumulated fat at 30-minute
intervals.

5. Meanwhile, peel and halve potatoes. In 4-quart saucepan, place
potatoes and add enough water to cover. Cover saucepan and heat to
boiling over high heat. Reduce heat to low and cook potatoes 5
minutes just to blanch them. Drain and return to pan; toss with oil,
1/4 tea- spoon salt, and 1/8 t pepper. After goose has roasted the
additional 1 1/4 hours, place potatoes on wire rack around goose.
Roast 45 minutes to 1 hour longer or until thermometer registers
185'F. Transfer potatoes to bowl and keep warm. Transfer goose to
large serving platter; let stand 15 minutes before garnishing and
carving.

6. Meanwhile, to prepare gravy, skim off all but about 3 T fat from
the goose drippings in the roasting pan. Strain the liquid from the
cooked neck, giblets, and vegetables through a large sieve into a
large measuring cup or bowl. Discard the particles. Measure 3 C
liquid and set aside. If not enough, add water or chicken broth. If
there is too much liquid, return to saucepan and cook to reduce to 3
cups.

7. Into the roasting pan with the reserved fat, stir flour until well
mixed. Gradually stir in reserved 3 C liquid and cook over medium-low
heat until thickened and bubbly. Stir in remaining 1/2 teaspoon salt
and 1/8 t pepper. Pour gravy into a small pitcher.

8. Arrange potatoes around goose. Garnish platter with bay leaves,
pome- granates, and some chestnuts from the Roasted Shallots and
Chestnuts, if desired. Carve the goose and serve with gravy.

Country Living Holidays/1994 Scanned & edited by Di Pahl & <gg>
Submitted By MICHAEL ORCHEKOWSKI   On   11-21-94

