Title: Roast Boar and Black Bean Chili
Categories: Chili, Game, Pork, Beans, Soup/stew
Yield: 6 servings
1    Jalapeno pepper, seeded,
-deveined and minced
1 c  Cooked, smoked ham, diced
-(1 cup = 5 oz)
2 c  Beef broth
1    Bay leaf
1 ts Chopped fresh oregano (or
-half that if dried)
1 ts Red wine vinegar
2 T  Dark rum
4    Scallions, thinly sliced
2    Eggs, hard cooked, sieved
1/4 c  Bacon drippings
2    Garlic cloves, crushed
3 T  Chili powder
1/8 t  Ground cumin seeds
1/4 t  Black pepper
4 lb Saddle of wild boar (OR loin
-of pork with bone in)
1 lb Black turtle beans
2 T  Olive oil
1/2 c  Diced salt pork
2    Onions, chopped
3    Cloves garlic, minced
In a medium bowl, combine the bacon drippings with the crushed
garlic, two tablespoons of the chili powder, the cumin, and freshly
ground pepper. Spread over the wild boar and let stand while
preparing the beans.

In a large pot, cover the beans with cold water. Heat to boiling and
boil for two minutes. Turn off the heat and let stand one hour.
Drain. Wipe out the pot and return beans, cover with cold water and
heat to boiling. Reduce heat and simmer for 30 minutes. Drain.

Preheat the oven to 325 degrees. Cook the salt pork in boiling water
for five minutes. Drain and pat dry. Heat the oil in a heavy, deep
casserole. Stir in the salt pork and cook over medium heat until
golden, about 3 min. Stir in the onion, minced garlic, and Jalapeno
pepper. Cook 1 minute. Stir in the ham and cook two more minutes.

Stir the remaining chili powder into the onion mixture. Add the beans,
broth, bay leaf, oregano, vinegar and rum. Mix well. Place the saddle
of boar on top of the beans, cover and place in the middle of the
oven. Cook for 1 1/2 to 2 hours or until internal meat thermometer
reads 170 degrees. Turn the meat twice and stir the beans. Add more
broth if dry.

Remove the meat and allow it to stand, covered, for 10 to 15 minutes.
Meanwhile, skim the fat from the chili. Cut the meat from the bone
and into thin slices. Layer it over the beans. If desired, stew,
covered, to tenderize the meat. Serve with hot rice and a sprinkling
of scallions and sieved eggs.

Serves 6 generously.
Submitted By MICHAEL ORCHEKOWSKI   On   10-31-94

