Title: Roast Turkey
Categories: Diabetic, Poultry, Holiday, Turkey
Yield: 20 servings
-separated into rings
1/2 ts Salt; optional
1/2 ts Poultry seasoning;
2 c  Defatted chicken broth;
-(canned or home-make)
8 lb Turkey; fresh or frozen
-(not self-basting)
3    Bunch of herb sprigs;
-can include thyme rosemary
-sage)
1    Onion; thinly sliced &
Defat chicken broth by keeping it in refregerator overnight.  Fat will
harden on top, making it easy to scoop off.  Set aside for basting.

Preheat oven to 325 degrees.  Remove giblets from turkey, set aside or
freeze.  ( You may use these at another time to make turkey stock.)

Rinse turkey with cold running water, drain well, pat dry.

Loosen skin from breast and drumsticks.  Start by separating a spot
of skin from carcass with a small sharp knife.  Then insert several
fingers into the opening and continue lossening skin with your
fingers. Still using your finger, carefully place herb sprigs and
onion rings underneath the loosened skin skin of the breast and the
drumsticks. (I do this all the time, but would put LOTS OF BUTTER
under the skin. It will be interesting to see how it turns out by
putting the herbs sprigs and onion rings.)

In a small dish, dish combine poultry seasoning and salt, sprinkle the
mixture into the neck and body cavities.

Tuck the turkey legs under the flap of the skin around the tail. Place
turkey, breast side up, on a rack in a roating pan.

Insert a meat thermoneter deep into the thickest part of the thigh,
making sure the thermometer does not touch the bone.

Cover the turkey loosley with aluminum foil tent, SHINY SIDE DOWN.
Roast at 325 degrees for about 2 1/2 hours, basting every 15 to 20
minutes with the defatted chicken broth.  To baste, wearing oven
mitts, carefully pull foil of turkey.  Se sure to use a long plastic
baster. (Note: Whole turkey generally require 20 - 25 minutes
roasting time variations due to differences in ovens, shape of
turkey, and degree of thawing. Begin checking for doneness about 1
hour before the end of recommended time.)

After about 2-1/2 hours, uncover the roasting pan (or remove the
foil) and bake for 30 minutes or until meat thermometer reaches 185
degrees. Remove turkey from the oven and let stand for 15 to 20
minutes before carving. Food Exchanges per serving: 3 LEAN-MEAT
EXCHANGES; (ONE SERVING ABOUT 3 OZ. OF A MIXTURE OF WHITE AND DARK
MEAT, SKIN REMOVED); CAL: 148; TOTAL FAT: 4gm; SATURATED FAT: 1gm;
CHO: 64mg; SOD: 215mg; SODIUM WITH ADD SALT: 269mg; CAR: 0g; SUGERS:
0g; PRO: 26;

Source: The Diabetic Forecast, Nov. 1994 Brought to you and yours via
Nancy O'Brion and her Meal-Master.
Submitted By NANCY O'BRION   On   11-01-94

