Title: Salmon China Moon From Graham Kerr's Smart Cooking
Categories: Main dish, Low-cal/fat, Seafood, Asian
Yield: 4 servings
With a dash of seasame oil
2    Garlic cloves, peeled
And finely minced
2 T  Finely sliced threads
Of fresh ginger root
1 T  Ferminted black beans
1 t  Dried red chili flakes
1 T  Rice vinegar
1/2 c  De-alcoholized white wine
4    Fresh salmon steaks (5-6oz)
2 c  Water
1 c  Uncooked long grain white
Rice
1/4    Red bell pepper, thinly
Sliced 1«-inches long
4    Green onions, green
Part only, finely sliced
1 t  Extra light olive oil
ß remove the salmon's free bones

ß Put the water in a medium saucepan, bring to a boil, add the rice
and simmer 15 minutes.  The rice should have a firm texture, without
sticking together.  Add the peppers and half of the sliced green
onions.

ß In a large saute pan, heat the olive oil and saute the minced
garlic, half the ginger, the beans and red chili flakes, stirring to
blend, for 5 minutes.  Add the rice vinegar and half of the
de-alcoholized white wine.

ß On an ovenproof plate or a Pyrex pie pan, at least 1 inch smaller in
diameter than your steamer, lay out the fish steaks next to one
another, arranged back-to-belly for a pretty fit.  Sprinkle with the
remaining green onions and ginger, then pour the black been mixture
evenly on top. Use only a bare sprinkling if the ginger is the
stronger, thick-skinned variety. You can be more liberal with the
subtle, young type. Lightly press the scallion with the broad side of
a knife to release its juices, then distribute evenly over the fish.

ß Pour water into your steamer pot to a depth of 4 inches and bring
to a full boil.  Put the plate of prepareed salmon in the steamer,
cover tightly, and steam over medium-high heat for 8 minutes.  While
steaming, do not lift the lid to peek at the fish,  lest you
dissipate the heat. When properly steamed, the fish will still look
moist and red, but will not be fleshy or raw.

ß Remove the plate from the steamer.  Pour the steaming liquid
through a strainer into a small saucepan.  Stir in the remaining
de-alcoholized white wine.

ß Serve the hot fish immediately.  You can also serve this dish at
room temperature:  just remove the salmon from the steamer when it is
about 1 minute underdone and let it cook to completion from its own
inner heat.

ß Just before serving, remove the rib and backbones and pull off the
skin in a neat ribbon with the aid of a small knife.  Discard most of
the green onion, leaving a few nuggets on top for color, or garnish
the salmon with one of the prettier whole green onion stalks.  Serve
the fish in the streamer basket, or transfer it carefully to heated
serving plates with a spatula.

ß Spoon the rice into small, individual molds and flip onto each
serving plate.  Glaze the salmon and rice with the salmon's steaming
liquid. Leftovers keep 1-2 days in the refrigerator and are very good
cold. The salmon juices gel into a delicious aspic.

Nutritional Profile

CLASSIC
PER SERVING
29 15 Calories From Fat 44% 29% Cholesterol
63 Fiber 19 16
19 36 Sodium 708

ß Clasic Compared - Black Bean Soup ß 60 minute hands on ß Cost
Estimate: Low to Medium

FROM: Graham Kerr's Smart Cooking, Doubleday, page 16,17
Submitted By BRENT WILLIAMS   On   11-05-94

