Title: Salt Crust Cooking Information Page 2.
Categories: Fish, Pork, Can/preserv, Information
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM----------------SOURCE: THE NATIONAL CULINAR---------------------
-fresh salmon, steelhead or
-other large
Salmon baked in salt crust
1 ea Mise en place includes a
fish (8 to 10 pounds), fennel greens, lemon, bay leaves, garlic
cloves, fall onions, rock salt, egg whites, all-purpose flour, mixing
bowl and spoon, parchment-lined sheet pan and small mallet. 2. In a
mixing bowl lightly dust salt with flour and moisten with sufficient
egg white to bind the mixture together. NOTE: The flour enhances the
thickness of the crust. 3. Place 1/2-inch layer of salt mixture on
parchment-lined sheet pan to form a silhouette of the fish.  NOTE:
The thickness of the salt crust is determined by the thickness of the
fish - the thicker the fish, the thicker the salt crust. 4. Clean
fish and fill the cavity with aromatics; place fish on top of salt
mixture. 5. Cover the fish with the salt mixture starting at the
sides and building it up to cover the entire fish. Once covered, it
will resemble a sarcophagus. 6. Place in a 350' oven and bake 20
minutes for each pound of fish. 7. Remove cooked product and allow to
cool 15 to 20 minutes or until cool enough to place on a presentation
tray 8. Crack open with a small mallet; remove salt crust and skin
from the fish and serve. Pork baked in salt crust 1. Mise en place
consists of 8 to 10 ounces of boneless pork shoulder or leg, one
sweet potato, four to six tia leaves or one banana leaf, smoked salt
seasoning, French metal black pan, butchers' twine, rock salt and
spray bottle filled with water. 2. Fill pot 3/4 full with rock salt
and heat in 400' oven for 60 minutes. 3. While rock salt is heating,
slice sweet potato into 1/2-inch thick slices. 4. Soak tia leaves or
banana leaf in warm water for 6 to 10 minutes. 5. Season pork with
smoked salt seasoning. 6. Form a base with soaked leaves. Place layer
of sweet potato slices on leaves and place pork on top of sweet
potatoes. 7. Wrap completely with leaves and tie with butchers'
twine. 8. Place packet in heated rock salt and cover with salt from
edges; moisten salt with water to solidify crust. 9. Place in 400'
oven and bake for one hour. Remove, crack open salt crust and serve.
Rosemary and garlic roasted squab 1. Mise en place includes cleaned
fresh squab, ground pepper, crushed garlic cloves, fresh rosemary,
cognac, an earthenware crock or heavy cast-iron pot, kosher salt and
a spray bottle filled with water. 2. Season squab lightly with ground
pepper.  Place crushed garlic and fresh rosemary inside cavity of
squab. 3. Moisten bird with cognac, cover and marinate for one hour
under refrigeration. 4. Fill cooking vessel 3/4 full with salt and
create a well for the squab. Heat salt in container at 400' for 30
minutes. 5. Remove squab from refrigerator, wrap in parchment paper
and seal to create an envelope for cooking. 6. Place
parchment-wrapped squab on bed of hot salt.  Draw salt from edges to
cover bird. Spray with water to solidify crust. 7. Place container
with squab in 400' oven and bake for 60 minutes. 8. Remove squab,
open parchment enclosure and serve. Brook trout baked in salt crust
1. Mise en place includes a 6- to 8-ounce brook trout, fresh dill,
dry vermouth, parchment paper, kosher salt, cracked black
peppercorns, all-purpose flour, egg whites, mixing bowl, spoon and
small mallet. 2. Prepare salt mixture by lightly dusting kosher salt
and cracked black peppercorns with flour, moistening the mixture with
sufficient egg white to bind it together. 3. Wrap brook trout with
fresh dill. 4. Moisten entire trout with dry vermouth and wrap in
parchment to enclose. 5. Line small sheet pan with parchment and form
1/4-inch layer of salt and peppercorn mixture into outline of fish on
the paper. NOTE: The salt crust for the brook trout is thinner than
that for the salmon because the trout is thinner than the salmon. 6.
Wrap trout in parchment and place on salt and peppercorn mixture;
cover fish with the salt mixture as previously directed 7. Bake at
350' for 20 to 25 minutes. 8. Remove and place on presentation tray.
Crack at the guest's table with small mallet to reveal delicate,
moist brook trout.

Submitted By SHERREE JOHANSSON   On   10-20-94

