Title: Simple Quesadillas
Categories: Tex/mexican, Vegetarian, Vegetable, Main dish
Yield: 2 servings
MMMMM--------------------------FILLINGS-------------------------------
MMMMM-----------------SELECT FROM THE FOLLOWING----------------------
-bell peppers
sl Roasted red peppers or
-pimientos
Thinly sliced chilies
-(fresh or canned)
Avocado slices or guacamole
sl Hard-cooked eggs
Fresh Herbs (such as
-cilantro, dill, chives,
Basil, oregano or sage)
Leftovers (such as spicy
-beans, vegetables or
Mashed potatoes)
sl Onions
Refried beans
Salsa
Corn or wheat tortillas (8-
-or 10-inch)
g  Cheese (Monterey Jack,
-Muenster, cheddar,
Feta, Jarlsberg, Swiss,
-smoked cheeses)
Chopped olives (black or
-green)
Chopped scalions, red
-onions, or sweet Spanish
Finely chopped red or green
Have all of the desired filling ingredients prepared and on hand
before you start assembling the quesadillas.  Lightly oil a heavy
skillet. Warm the skillet over medium heat.  Sprinkle or spred the
chosen filling ingredients on one half of each tortilla, leaving a
1/2-inch border along the edge. Do not pile the filling on too thick
or it will ooze out into the skillet (about 1/2 inch deep is good).
Fold the plain half of the tortilla over the filling.  Place the
quesadillas (as many as you are cooking or as many as will fit) in
the heated skillet; cook each side for 2 to 3 minutes, until the
cheese is melted and the filling is hot. Add more oil to the skillet,
if necessary, and cook the remaning quesadillas. Makes 2 quesadillas
per person. Per quesadilla (approximate, depending on fillings):  286
calories; 13 g protein; 14.7 g fat; 26.5 g carbohydrate; 666 mg
sodium; 40 mg cholesterol. NOTES: If you have two large skillets, you
can reduce the total cooking time by heating several quesadillas at
once. A heavy cast-iron skillet will not need repeated oiling. In
fact, it is possible to cook the quesadillas without using any oil,
but the result will be a less crisp tortilla. If the tortillas crack
when you fold them over the filling, heat each of them briefly in the
warm skillet (to make them more pliable) before topping them with the
filling. If you cook the quesadillas in batches, keep them warm in a
low oven while cooking the remaining batches. [Moosewood Restaurant
Cooks at Home; The Moosewood Collective]

Submitted By FRED PETERS   On   11-25-94

