Title: Stained Glass Candy
Categories: Candy
Yield: 1 servings
Food coloring
Oil based flavorings (I use
-Wilton's)
Tin foil
3 3/4 c  White sugar
1 1/2 c  Lily white syrup (or Karo,
-must be colorless)
1 c  Water
icing sugar (approx 10 cups) (can be re-used over and over) sharp
pair of scissors candy thermometer volunteers to help cut! Mix the
white sugar, white syrup, and water in a medium sized pot. Add the
food coloring you want (green for spearmint, orange for orange) Bring
to a boil, and boil until candy thermometer reaches 300F degrees.
(Can take up to 20 minutes) Stir to mix all the ingredients, but once
it starts to boil, do not touch. Pot must be big enough to allow for
double, as it rises as it boils While the candy mixture is boiling,
shape a large piece of tin foil by folding up the sides and ends.  (I
use the large foil about 3 feet long) to create a large cookie sheet
type shape.  Put the icing sugar on the foil to completely cover it,
and bank up the sides with icing sugar. When the candy mixture has
reached 300F, remove from heat.  Let sit about 10 seconds and stir to
cool slightly (heavy emphasis on SLIGHTLY) Then add about 1 to 1-1/2
tsp of the oil based flavorings depending on how strong you want the
flavor.  Stir until mixed (may boil a bit and DON'T stand over top of
pot as flavor with escape in the air and up your nose!! 8-} ) Once
flavoring is combined, pour mixture onto the icing sugar and use
rubber spatula to scrape all mixture out of pot.  Put pot, spatula
and candy thermometer into sinkful of hot soapy water.  If you allow
it to harden you won't be saying nice things about me at all!! 8-} As
candy is cooling, keep checking by trying to pull up the edges.  Once
it gets to the consistency that you can lift it a little, start
cutting it FAST! I cut off a chunk and then cut it up into bite-sized
pieces. The outside will cool first so you have to watch it.  If it
hardens to quickly you will end up with a good size lollipop that you
won't be able to cut. It will shatter like glass. Continue working
your way around until all is cut.  Then I take all the candy and put
it in a strainer that is sitting over a bowl.  Shake some of the
excess icing sugar off candy and allow to cool thoroughly.  Pack in
airtight containers. I find Zip-Loc Freezer bags pretty good.  This
recipe makes about 2 lbs candy.  Once I have done all the flavors
that I want, then I set up all the bags and put about 10 of each
flavor into a smaller zip-loc and seal. They make great Christmas
gifts for family and all the various people you give to....mailman,
garbage man, paperboy, school teachers, your kids friends..etc.  I
figure if the kids have to help me cut, they get some to give to
their friends..  Besides.. makes a good bribe to get them to help!!
Origin:  ME!  Sharon Stevens Shared by: ME! Sharon Stevens

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   11-15-94

