Title: Steve's Easy Pizza Crust
Categories: Bread, Main dish, Pizza
Yield: 1 servings
Salt (just a little)
Olive oil (optional)
2 pk Rapid rise yeast
4 c  Flour
4 T  Sugar or honey
3 3/4 c  Hot water
Combine hot water, yeast, and sugar in bowl.  Set timer on
microwave for five minutes, or say something smart-alecky and just
wait for your spouse to get mad about it (usually works out about the
same :).  In a large bowl combine flour and however much salt you
feel like using ( I have been known to mix in a number of other
things in the interests of finding out what tastes good- Progresso
Italian bread crumbs add a pleasant flavor, as does parmesan cheese).
You can also substitute other kinds of flour, such as wheat or rye
for an equal amount of white flour. Experiment, have fun! Mix all the
ingredients thouroughly (sic) with a big wire wisk (don't laugh, it
works!). If the flour is cold, stick it in your microwave for 20- 30
seconds to warm it up.
When five minutes are up, or you have your spouse calmed down, dump
the water/yeast/sugar mess into the flour mess and stir with a wooden
spoon until everything is pretty well mixed.  Put aside the spoon,
and knead the dough right there in the bowl (this saves me a lot of
counter cleaning!). Add flour as necessary- the dough should be just
this side of sticky. Place the dough in a clean bowl that has been
sprayed with Pam (on the inside, of course), cover with colored
plastic wrap for a festive look, and place in a warm place for the
first rising. Go make up with spouse.
When the first rising is done, take the dough out and punch it down
to take out aggravation with spouse :). Now, you have several options
here- you have enough dough to make one cookie-sheet size pizza, or
two 12 to 14 inch round pizzas. (or maybe one really thick crust
round pizza!).  I have taken to cutting the dough in two, wrapping
one half tightly in plastic wrap and freezing it for later use.
Spread the dough out on a greased pan, or a stone for the second
rising. When I use a stone, I find that it helps quite a bit if I
bake the crust by itself for seven or eight minutes before adding
toppings, or the middle doesn't cook.  For this, I brush it with
olive oil, and put it in a 375 degree oven.  Add toppings and bake at
375 degrees for 10-12 minutes, or until the  crust starts to brown.
That's pretty much it- this is a very basic yeast bread which is
very forgiving, and very easy to experiment with.  Matter of fact, it
took me longer to type in in than it does to actually make it!
Submitted By STEVE KREITLER   On   11-12-94

