Title: Sugar & Cream Fudge
Categories: Candy
Yield: 1 servings
No Ingredients Found
"This is it, the first, the one, the only, the original fudge....  It
is also the simplest recipe of them all and makes a very simple,
straightforward, delicious fudge - an old-fashioned fudge that may
seem a little too sugary for some.  The trick here is to make sure
you cook it long enough, or it will remain soup.  Once you get it to
the right ball, if you shock, seed, and stir, it grains easily, maybe
too easily. Thus the use of warm water in the sink to slow the
cooling down, the use of a single ingredient to see it, and the need
to wait to stir until the fudge has cooled....In order to control the
graining, you can add 1 Tbsp. light corn syrup.  Or you can
substitute 5 oz. evaporated milk plus 3 oz. regular milk for the
cream, but the fudge will not be as rich." 2 cups 1 cup 2 oz. 1 Tbsp.
butter 1/2 cup 1) Preparation: Prewarm candy thermometer, use 2
quart saucepan, butter granulated white sugar heavy (whipping) cream
squares unsweetened chocolate, grated or smashed chopped nuts
(optional)

upper sides of saucepan, measure all ingredients except butter and
nuts and dump into saucepan.  Grease and, if necessary, line a 5x10"
pan. Freeze the Tbsp. of butter.  Fill glass with ice cubes and water
and sink 1/2" full of hot water. 2) Dissolve sugar, stirring
constantly with wooden spoon over low heat until butter melts, gritty
sounds cease, spoon glides snoothly over bottom of pan. Increase heat
to medium and bring to a boil. 3) Boil after washing down any
crystals that may have formed with pastry brush dipped in hot water
from thermometer bath, using as little water as possible.  Introduce
prewarmed thermometer.  Reduce heat while retaining boil.  Stir no
more than necessary. 4) Test in ice-cold water when mixture thickens
and bubbles become noisy. Ball, formed in ice water, should hold its
shape until heat from your hand begins to flatten it and should be al
dente - slightly chewy. Approximately 234 to 240 degrees (112 to
115.5 centigrade). 5) Shock by placing saucepan in sink. 6) Seed by
adding, without stirring, frozen butter.  Then allow to cool. 7) Stir
when lukewarm and "skin" forms on top.  Return thermometer to its hot
water bath to soak clean.  Stir fudge thoroughly but not vigorously
by hand, with electric mixer, or with food processor.  Pause
frequently to allow fudge to react. 8) Watch for fudge to thicken,
lose its sheen, become lighter in color or streaked with lighter
shades, give off some heat, suddenly stiffen. If mixing by hand,
fudge will "snap" with each stroke; by mixer, mixer waves will become
very distinct; by food processor, fudge will flow sluggishly back to
center when processor is stopped. 9) Add optional ingredients before
fudge totally candies. 10) Pour, score, and store when cool in
airtight container in refrigerator or at room temperature. Makes: 1
lb. Note:  Recipe is easily doubled but not if you are using a food
processor. Can be frozen. From: "Oh, Fudge" cookbook

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   11-10-94

