Title: Tarragon Pecan Dressing
Categories: Nuts/grains, Holiday, Pork, Side dish, Stuffing
Yield: 6 servings
-- minced (about 1 cup)
1 c  Toasted pecan pieces
6    To 8 cups bread crumbs
1 ts Black pepper
1/2 c  Chicken or turkey broth
-- or to taste
1/4 c  White wine or chicken broth
1 tb Dried tarragon
1/2 c  Butter
2 md Onions; peeled and chopped
1/3 c  Minced country ham
1 bn Fresh parsley*
-- stems removed
*Don't substitute dried parsley.

In a Dutch oven or other wide pot, heat wine over high heat.  Add
tarragon and let wine boil nearly away (don't let it completely
evaporate). Add butter and allow it to melt, tipping the pot to cover
the bottom with butter. Turn heat down to medium; add onions, country
ham and parsley as you prepare them.  Turn heat to medium low and let
the mixture cook slowly, about 30 minutes.  Remove from stove and
stir in toasted pecans.

Put bread crumbs in a large bowl.  Add pepper and onion mixture;
toss. Add chicken broth, toss again, and add more broth if you like a
moister mixture.  This amount of broth makes a dressing that still
falls apart somewhat.  Pack into an 8x8" baking dish (or similar
size) and bake at 350 F. for 20 minutes, or until warmed through.

Serve with baked turkey, baked chicken, baked game birds or pork
chops.

To toast pecans: Spread the pieces on a baking sheet and place in a
350 F. for about 10 minutes, or until the nuts are light brown and
aromatic.

Yield: 6 to 10 servings.

Fritschner writes: "Some people believe that bread dressing is the
best part of the holiday meal.  If you eat either of the following
[Tarragon Pecan Dressing and Corn Bread Sausage Dressing], you might
be one of them. The recipes run to the crumbly; if you like a moist
dressing, add more turkey broth that you've made from giblets or
canned low-salt chicken broth.

"The tarragon dressing calls for country ham.  It is optional, but
delicious, and available at many supermarket delis."

From Food Editor Sarah Fritschner's 11/16/94 "Dressing Up for the
Holidays" article in "The (Louisville, KY) Courier-Journal."  Pg. C6.
Typed for you by Cathy Harned.
Submitted By CATHY HARNED   On   11-30-94

