Title: Tips for Cooking with Eggs
Categories: Cheese/eggs, Information
Yield: 1 servings
-towels.
* It's easier to separate
-the yolk from the white if
-the egg is very
Cold.
* If you spill a raw egg
-whete it's difficult to
-pick up, cover it with
Salt and let it set; then
-pick it up with damp paper
* If eggs are at room tempperature before you fry or boil them, the
whites will be less likely to be tough.  So remove them from the
refrigerator a couple of hours before using. * Avoid beating eggs
directly into any hot mixture - they will curdle. Either cool the
mixture first or add small amounts of the hot mixture to the eggs,
beating well between additions. After the eggs are fairly well
liquefied by the mixture, combine the two and beat again. * Salt
toughens eggs. Add it to egg dishes only after they are cooked. *
Cook all egg dishes at low or moderate heat, otherwise they'll
toughen. * When you serve egg dishes, use stainless steel flatware
instead of solver. The sulfur in egg yolks discolors silver. BOILING:
* Remove eggs from the refrigerator at least 1/2 hour before boiling,
since very cold eggs may crack when you put them in boiling water. *
If you puncture the rounds end of a cold egg with a pin, it will be
less likely to crack when you put it in boiling water. * If an egg
cracks while boiling, immediately pour a large quantity of salt on
the crack, lowering the flame first.  This will often serve to seal
the egg and stop a lot of the white from escaping. * Plunging
hard-boiled eggs into running cold water while they are still hot
will prevent a greenish ring from forming around the yolk. * You can
hard boil eggs so that the whites are firm and the yolk thoroughly
cooked but still creamy.  Place the eggs in a pot, cover with cool
water, and bring the water to a boil.  Cover the pot at once with a
tight fitting lid, turn off the flame, and let stand 25 mintues.
Eggs cooked in this way are very good for stuffing or slicing. * You
can slice hard-boiled eggs so that the yolks won't crumble if you
keep dipping the knife or egg slicer in cold water. * When you're
making stuffed eggs, slice off a tiny piece from the rounded bottom
of each hard-boiled half so that when you stuff and arrange them in
the dish they'll stand without any trouble. * To distiguish betweeen
a hard-boiled egg with its shell on and an uncooked one, spin it on
its' end. An uncooked egg won't spin. FRYING: * Fried eggs continue
to cook after they've been removed from the pan, so fry them just
short of the point you like before sliding them off onto a plate.
POACHING: * Her's how to poach an egg when you have not poacher:
Bring water with a little white vinegar or lemon juice added ( to
keep the whites from spreading) to a rolling boil, then lower the
flame until the water begins to simmer.  Make a whirlpool with a
spoon and open the egg into the center of the whirlpool.  Move the
spoon gently and swiftly around the edge of the pan, keeping the
whirlpool going in one direction. Poach for 3 to 3-1/2 minutes.
Remove the egg with a perforated spoon. SCRAMBLING: * For velvety,
creamy scrambled eggs, cook them very slowly, starting with a cool
buttered pan.  Add 1 tbsp of cream or evaporated milk at the very
end. Stir in and serve. * Scrambled eggs are always at their most
tender if you cook them over hot water in the buttered top of a
double boiler. This assures a constant low temperature. Origin:
Hearth and Home Companion Shared by: Sharon Stevens ++_ End Stevens
Recipe ++-

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   10-18-94

