Title: SPICED CARROT SOUP
Categories: Soups & ste, New text im, Too hot tam
1 TB oil
Yield: 6 Servings
1    onion -- peeled and diced
3    Cloves garlic -- minced
1 ts salt
1/2 ts pepper
1 ts brown sugar
1 1/2 ts ground cumin
3/4 ts ground coriander
1 lb medium carrots -- peeled and
sliced
:
1/2    -inch thick
1/2 c  raw white rice
1    bay leaf
1 qt chicken stock
Or Vegetable Stock
or water
Crispy fried shallots:
:
:
:
10    shallots -- peeled and
sliced
very thinly crosswise (10 to
:
:
15    shallots -- peeled and
knife
:
4 ts flour
Oil for deep frying:
:
3    Inches neutral vegetable oil
in heavy pot
:
1 ts salt

Heat oil over medium low heat in heavy Dutch oven. Add onion and
garlic, stir, add salt, pepper, sugar, cumin and coriander, and cook
slowly 10-15 minutes until onions are translucent. Add carrots, rice,
bay leaf and stock or water and cook 30 minutes, or until rice is
puffed up and carrots can be crushed against side of pot with wooden
spoon. Pass throughfood mill into clean pot. Taste and adjust
seasoning if necessary. Bring back to a simmer, then serve garnished
with crispy shallots. Yield: 4-6 servings CRISPY FRIED SHALLOTS: Heat
oil to 360 degrees. Separate the shallot slices into rings and place
in medium bowl. Sprinkle flour over and toss lightly to coat evenly.
Working with a small handful at a time, sprinkle shallots over oil
and stir gently . Fry until golden brown, 13 minutes. Remove with
slotted spoon and drain on paper towels. Sprinkle with a pinch of
salt. Repeat with remaining shallots, salting while still warm. Use
as garnish for Spiced Carrot Soup. Yield: Six servings as garnish All
of these pureed soups are delicious hot and delicious cold. Yields
are high to allow for leftovers! Soups will be thicker when cold so
thin if desired with milk, cream, stock or water. These recipes
showcase our friends the food mill (which purees and separates) and
immersion blender (purees in the pot, no muss, no fuss, no bother).
Great tools for purees. Any of these pureed soups lend themselves to
other garnish: a dollop of crema, creme fraiche or sour cream a
sprinkling of herbs a spoonful of red or green salsa (crunchy texture
contrast) freshly fried tortilla chips floating on top several of the
above! Copyright, 1996, TV FOOD NETWORK, G.P., All Rights Reserved

: TVFN: TOO HOT TAMALES SHOW #TH6300
Recipe By

Date:
From:

