Title: SPICED SWEET POTATO DINNER ROLLS
Categories: Breads
Yield: 24 Rolls
3 c  Bread Flour
2 pk Rapid Rise Yeast
1 ts Salt
1 tb Sugar
1 tb Pumpkin Pie Spice
1 lg Sweet Potato; baked,peeled
- and mashed or 1 cup solid
-packed pumpkin
1/2 c  Frozen Egg Substitute
-defrosted
3/4 c  Hot Skim Milk (120 degrees)
1 1/2 c  Whole Wheat Flour
--Glaze--
1    Egg White;lightly beaten &
-mixed with 1 tsp water.
Sesame Seeds; optional
Lightly coat a baking sheet with cookin spray and set aside. In a food
processor or heavy duty stand mixer, combine 3 c of the bread flour,
the yeast, salt, sugar, and pumpkin pie spice. Process until well
combined. Add the mashed sweet potato or pumpkin pack, and the egg
substitute. Process for 20 seconds. With the machine running, add the
hot skim milk. Process or knead to make a soft dough that isn't
sticky, adding more whole wheat flour in 1/4 cup increments as
necessary. Knead for 1 minute in a food processor, 10-12 minutes in a
mixer. The dough should be very smooth and elastic and bounce back at
you  when gently pressed with a finger. Place the dough into a
plastic bag that has been coated with vegetable spray, seal, and let
double in volume. Punch down. Pinch off a piece of dough about the
size of a small egg and shape with the palms of your hands into a
round. Place on the prepared baking sheet leaving about 1" between
each roll. Repeat with the remaining dough. Let double again. Preheat
the oven to 400 degrees. Brush the top of each roll with the egg
white glaze. Sprinkle the tops of the rolls with the optional sesame
seeds. Place on the middle rack of the oven. Bake 15 -20 minutes
until crisp and the bottoms sound hollow when tapped. Cool on a wire
rack. This bread freezes for about 3 months if tightly wrapped and
kept airtight. Note: Regular yeast can be substituted if the
RapidRise is unavailable. Please allow for a longer rising time when
using the regular yeast. If you buy your yeast in bulk (it is cheaper
this way) store in the freezer and allow approximately 2 to 2 1/2 tsp
per a single package measurement.

