Title: SPICED LENTILS WITH APPLE CRISPS & CURRIED
Categories: Appetizers
Yield: 4 Servings
-JUDI M. PHELPS
1 tb Canola oil
1 lg Yellow onion; peeled and
-finely diced
1 ts Garam masala; (Spice mixture
-sold at Indian food stores
-or other specialty shops)
1 md Bay leaf
2    Granny Smith apples; peeled,
-cored, and finely diced
1 c  Dried green lentils
2 c  Chicken stock
Apple Crisps; (recipe
-follows)
Curried Yogurt; (recipe
-follows)
MMMMM------------------------APPLE CRISPS-----------------------------
1 tb Confectioner's sugar
Juice of 2 lemons
2    Granny Smith apples; peeled
-and cored
MMMMM-----------------------CURRIED YOGURT----------------------------
1 tb Curry powder or garam masala
1    Banana; peeled and finely
-diced
2 c  Plain yogurt
In a large, heavy saucepan, heat the oil over medium-high heat. Add
the onion and saute until soft, about 4 minutes. Add the garam
masala, bay leaf, and apples, and cook, stirring continuously, for 2
more minutes. Add the lentils and stock and bring the mixture to a
boil over high heat. Reduce to a simmer and cook for about 25 minutes
or until the lentils are tender, being careful not to overcook them.
Remove the pan from the heat, remove the bay leaf, and adjust
seasoning to taste.

Serve the lentils hot in one large serving bowl. Serve the yogurt and
apple crisps separately and invite diners to combine all three
components to their personal taste. Makes 4 appetizer or 2 main
course servings.

APPLE CRISPS: Preheat the oven to its lowest setting. In a small bowl,
dissolve the sugar in the lemon juice. Thinly slice the apples
horizontally into rounds approximately 1/16-inch thick. Lay the apple
slices on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper and brush lightly
with the sugared lemon juice.  Place the baking sheet in the oven and
allow the apples to dry, about 3 to 4 hours or overnight.  Remove the
baking sheet from the oven and gently peel the apple slices from the
paper. (Some discoloration of the apple slices will occur.)  Store in
an airtight container until ready to use.  They will last for 2 days
in the refrigerator.

CURRIED YOGURT:  Heat a small nonstick skillet over medium heat. Add
the curry powder and toast until you can smell its intense aroma,
about 30 seconds.  Remove pan from heat. Combine the curry powder
with the banana and yogurt in a serving bowl, stirring well.
Refrigerate until ready to use.  Makes 2 cups.

Source:  Grains, Rice, and Beans by Kevin Graham.

Shared and MM by Judi M. Phelps. jphelps@shell.portal.com,
juphelps@delphi.com, or jphelps@best.com

