Title: SPINACH & HERB RISOTTO (FINE COOKING)
Categories: Italian, Rice
Yield: 2 Servings
SPINACH AND HERB PESTO
3/4 c  Spinach leaves; densely
-packed, stemmed
1/4 c  Mixed flat leaf parsley,
-cilantro,
Tarragon leaves
1/4 c  Chicken stock, as needed
FOR THE RISOTTO
3 c  Chicken or vegetable stock;
-more if needed
3 tb Butter
1 c  Arborio rice
1/2 c  Onion; diced
1/2 c  Dry white wine
Salt to taste
2 tb Parmegiano-reggiano cheese;
-freshly grated
Prepare the spinach and herb pesto - Put the spinach and herbs in a
food processor or a blender. Process, adding a little stock to loosen
if needed, until well combined.  The pesto  should resemble a very
thick soup. Set aside.

Make the risotto - Bring the stock to a boil; reduce to a simmer.  In
a medium, heavy gauge saucepan over medium high heat, melt 2
tablespoons of the butter.  Stir in the rice, toasting just until it
starts to sizzle and pop, about 1 minute.  It should not color.  Add
the onion, stirring constantly, and cook until translucent, 1-2
minutes.  Stir in the wine. When almost all the liquid has
disappeared, after about 1 minute, add just enough hot stock to cover
the rice.  Lower the heat to maintain a vigorous simmer; stir
occasionally.  When the stock is almost gone, again add enough stock
to cover the rice, along with a pinch of salt.  Check the risotto
every 3 or 4 minutes, giving an occasional stir to make sure it isn't
sticking to the bottom of the pan, adding just enough stock to cover
the rice when the liquid has almost disappeared.  Continue this way
until the rice is just al dente, about 20 minutes total cooking time.
Bite into a grain; you should see a white pin-dot in the center.
Take the risotto off the heat.  Add the remaining 1 tablespoon
butter.  Stir in half of the herb pesto (freeze the rest for another
time) and the cheese.  Stir vigorously for a few seconds.  The
risotto should be moist and creamy, not runny. Add more stock to
loosen the risotto if you like, and more salt to taste , if needed.
Serve immediately.

Contributor:  "Fine Cooking" - 5/98

