Title: SPINACH TORTA RUSTICA WITH POTATO "CRUST"
Categories: New import
Yield: 4 Servings
2 lg Baking potatoes sliced thin
(about  1/4 inch slices)
3    (10-ounce) packages frozen
Chopped spinach
1 tb Olive oil plus a little
Extra (divided use)
1/2 md Onion, minced
1    Egg
2    Egg whites
1/2 c  Grated Parmesan cheese
1/4 c  Plus 2 tablespoons Italian
Seasoned bread crumbs
(divided use)
Salt and Freshly grd pepper
To taste
1 cn (7 ounce)roasted red peppers
Peeled (about 2 peppers if
You're roasting your own)
1/2 lb Mozzarella cheese, grated
1/4 lb Mesquite smoked turkey
Breast, sliced 1/8-inch
Thick and 1/2 in wide strips
(Or substitute any high
Quality smoked ham)
Steam potatoes until barely tender, about 7 to 10 minutes. (Watch them
carefully so that they don't get too soft.) Cook spinach according to
package directions just until completely thawed (or thaw overnight in
refrigerator). Drain spinach in a colander and rinse under water to
bring to room temperature. Drain spinach again. Squeeze handfuls of
spach tightly to wring out excess moisture. The sphinach should be
almost completely dry. Set aside.

Preheat oven to 375 F. Heat 1 tablespoon oil in a small skillet.
Saute the onion until it becomes translucent and edges begin to
brown. In a bowl, mix the spinach, sauteed onion, egg and egg whites,
Parmesan cheese, 1/4 cup of bread crumbs, salt and pepper; set aside.

Spray sides and bottom of a 9-inch springform pan with nonstick
cooking spray. Dust the entire inside of the pan with remaining 2
tablespoons of bread crumbs. Layer half of the potato slices in the
bottom of the pan. Spread half the spinach mixture on top of the
potatoes, followed by half of the red peppers, half of the the
mozzarella, and half of the smoked meat. Repeat. Top with a layer of
potatoes arranged in overlapping circles. Brush potato layer lightly
with olive oil and season with salt and pepper.

Bake for 40 minutes. Remove from pan and cut into wedges. May be
served warm or at room temperature. Makes 6 to 8 servings.

Per serving: Calories: 271 Fat14g Cholesterol 72mg Sodium 703 mg
Percent calories from fat 44%

From The Dallas Morning News 10/16/96 Typos by Bobbie Beers

