Title: SPINACH-STUFFED TURKEY ROLLS -- DINNER MENU
Categories: Entree
16 oz turkey breast slices
(about 4 ounces each)
vegetable cooking spray
STUFFING:
Yield: 4 Servings
:
:
:
1 sm chopped onion -- (1/3 to 1/2
cup)
:
1 lg clove garlic -- minced
1/2 c  dry white wine
(such as fume blanc)
:
10 oz spinach leaves -- roughly
chopped
:
2 TB chopped fresh parsley
1 ts chopped fresh thyme
1 TB chopped fresh basil
1/2    lemon
zest and juice
:
1/2 c  seasoned bread crumbs
2 TB ground almonds, blanched --
optional
:
1 lg egg -- lightly beaten
1 c  Low sodium Chicken broth --
defatted
WILD MUSHROOM SAUCE:
:
:
1 1/2 c  low sodium chicken broth --
defatted
:
1/2 c  mushroom pieces --
assortment
:
1 ts sugar substitute --
optional
:
1/2 ts low sodium soy sauce
1 ts cornstarch -- dissolved in
1 TB water
BEANS AND POTATOES:
:
1 lb green beans
4    whole red potatoes
Freshly ground nutmeg
freshly ground black pepper
:
:
1/2 c  cranberry sauce, whole
berry
:

FLATTEN each slice of turkey gently between two sheets of wax paper to
between 1/8 and 1/4-inch thick. Chill the cutlets until ready to stuff
them. (Wrap in wax paper to prevent drying.)

MUSHROOM SAUCE:  place the broth and mushroom pieces in a saucepan.
Add sugar (aspertame, if using) and soy. Cover. Set heat to lowest
possible. The idea is to flavor the broth, not to reduce the sauce.
Use a diffuser, if necessary.

SET UP STEAMER:  Scrub potatoes; cut into 1 inch chunks or use the
salad reds. Wash and trim beans; cut into bites, optional.

STUFFING STEP #1:  Wash and spin-dry fresh spinach. Rough chop. Spray
a skillet with vegetable cooking spray, add the onion and garlic, and
saute over moderate heat until the onion is translucent, about 3 to 4
minutes. Add the wine, raise the heat, and bring to a boil, burning
off the strong smell of alcohol (about 1 to 1-1/2 mins); then add the
spinach. Cover; cook for 2 minutes to wilt the spinach. Remove from
heat. Set up a sieve and transfer the spinach and onion to it. Let it
drain until the spinach is cool enough to handle.

STEP #2: While spinach is cooling, measure and mince fresh parsley,
thyme, and basil. Measure the lemon juice and zest and set aside.
Gently squeeze excess moisture from the spinach, (chop some more if
needed), place in a bowl. Flavor with herbs and lemon. Stir in the
breadcrumbs, almond dust, if using, and egg; mix well.

STUFF AND ROLL:  Place a turkey cutlet on a work surface and spread
evenly with portion of spinach mixture. Roll up the cutlets.

SHOWTIME: Heat oven to 350F. Spray a the saute pan with vegetable
cooking spray and place over moderate heat. Add the turkey rolls,
seam side down and sear/brown; turning, to brown on all sides, about
5 minutes. Add 1 cup chicken broth and heat.  Put pan, covered in
oven. - Bake about 15 minutes. Remove cover. Bake about 4 to 5
minutes. - Meanwhile start the steamer and steam vegetables until
just tender (17 mins). Keep warm. - Remove turkey from oven. Turn off
heat. - Optional: Drain the liquid to the musroom sauce. - Keep rolls
warm in the cooling oven. - Thicken sauce with cornstarch mixture. -
Arrange food on heated plates. Sprinkle potatoes and beans with a
little ground nutmeg and pepper. Ladle rolls with sauce. Serve with a
small scoop of cranberry sauce (or sideof shrub); a small salad of
endive with ranch dressing may also be served. Recipe By : New Spa
Food: Hanneman (1996)

Date: Wed, 30 Oct 1996 14:32:29
~0800 (

