Title: SPINACH-CHEESE CALZONES WITH TOMATO SAUCE
Categories: Other sauce
Yield: 8 Servings
1    1-pound
Frozen
1 pk Frozen chopped spinach --
Thawed and drained
(10-ounce)
White bread dough loaf --
Vegetable cooking spray 1/2 cup chopped onion 1/2 cup ricotta cheese,
part skim milk 1/2 cup Neufchatel-type cheese with herbs and spices
1/8 teaspoon pepper 1 egg ~- lightly beaten 1 cup tomato -- unpeeled,
seeded -- and chopped 1/4 teaspoon salt 1/4 teaspoon dried whole
basil 1/4 teaspoon dried whole oregano 1 8-ounce tomato sauce can
Thaw bread dough using one of the following methods:  - Remove frozen
loaf from package, and wrap in plastic wrap; let thaw in refrigerator
8 hours. Remove plastic wrap, and place on a lightly floured surface;
let stand 30 minutes, or. - Remove frozen loaf from package, and
place on a lightly floured surface. Cover with plastic wrap; let thaw
3 hours. Press spinach between paper towels until barely moist; set
aside.

Coat a medium skillet with cooking spray; place over medium heat
until hot. Add onion; saute 3 minutes or until tender. Remove from
heat; add ricotta cheese and next 3 ingredients, stirring well. Add
spinach, stirring well; remove from heat. Divide dough into 8 equal
portions. Working with 1 portion at a time (cover remaining portions
to keep dough from drying out), roll each portion to 1/8-inch
thickness. Place on a large baking sheet coated with cooking spray,
and pat each portion into a 6-inch circle with floured fingertips.
Spoon 1/4 cup spinach mixture onto half of each circle; moisten edges
of dough with water. Fold dough over filling; press edges together
with a fork to seal. Lightly coat with cooking spray. Bake at 375x
for 20 minutes or until golden.  Remove from oven, and lightly coat
again with cooking spray; Keep calzones warm. Comtine tomato and next
4 ingredients in a small saucepan. Bring to a boil; reduce heat to
medium, and cook 10 minutes.  Serve with calzones.

239 calories per sandwich and two tablespoons of sauce.

: Cooking Light, Mar/Apr, p.122
Recipe By

