Title: SPRING GREEN PASTA
Categories: Pasta
Yield: 4 Servings
4 c  Cold water
1/2    Lemon
6    Baby artichokes
6    Thin asparagus spears,
-trimmed, cut into 1" pieces
8 oz Orecchlette (ear-shaped)
-pasta
1 tb Olive oil
2 tb Unsalted butter
1/4 c  Chopped scallions
2    Garlic cloves, slivered
1/3 c  Oil-cured black olives,
-pitted
1/2 c  Tiny green peas (if using
-frozen, thawed)
4 tb Fresh grated Parmesan cheese
Salt to taste
Freshly ground black pepper
(From "The New Basics Cookbook) by Julee Rosso and Shiela Lukins.
Workman.)

Fill the mixing bowl with the cold water and squeeze the lemon juice
into it. Drop the lemon half into the water as well. Set the bowl
aside.

Using a sharp knife, trim off and discard the top 1/2" of each
artichoke. Dip the cut tops into the acidulated water (to keep them
from turning brown).

Pull the outer leaves off the artichokes, leaving a core of tender
green leaves. Gently pry open the artichokes; using a small melon
baller, scoop out and discard the chokes.

Cut the artichokes vertically into three or four slices, dropping
them into the acidulated water as you work.

Bring a large saucepan of salted water to a boil. Drain the
artichokes, and add them to the pan. Simmer for 10 minutes. Then
drain the artichokes, reserving the cooking liquid and rinse them
under cold water. Set them aside.

Bring the reserve artichoke cooking liquid to a boil, and add the
asparagus. Simmer for 3 minutes; then drain, again reserving the
liquid. Rinse the asparagus under cold water, and set it aside.

Bring a large pot of fresh water to a boil. Add the orecchlette, and
cook at a rolling boil until just tender.

Meanwhile, heat the olive oil and 1 tablespoon of the butter in a
saucepan. Saute the scallions and garlic for 3 minutes. Then stir in
the olives, peas, reserved artichokes and asparagus, remaining 1
tablespoon butter, 1/3 cup of the reserved cooking liquid, and 3
tablespoons of the Parmesan. Stir well, and cook just until heated
through, 2 minutes. Stir in 2 tablespoons of the pasta cooking water,
and transfer the sauce to a heated serving bowl.

Drain the pasta, and toss it in the bowl with the sauce until well
coated. Season with salt, pepper and the additional 1 tablespoon
grated Parmesan. Serve immediately.

Nutritional analysis per serving: 250.3 calories; 10.9 grams total
fat; (5.1 grams saturated fat); 7.8 grams protein; 29.5 grams
carbohydrates; 20.5 milligrams cholesterol; 177.3 milligrams sodium.

