Title: SQUASH TORTELLONI IN ROASTED VEGETABLE BROTH
Categories: Sides, Vegetables, Pasta, Soup/stews
Yield: 6 Servings
Roasted Vegetable Broth
-(separate recipe)
1/2 lg Or 1 small butternut or
-Sweet Dumpling squash
-(about 1/4 lb),
-halved and seeded
1 1/2 tb Unsalted butter
1/4 c  Fmely niinced shallots
1 tb Fresh thyme leaves
1 tb Maple syrup
Salt & freshly ground pepper
2 1/2 c  All-purpose flour
3 lg Eggs
3 lg Egg yolks (1 mixed with 1
-tablespoon milk, for egg
-wash)
Fine semolina or polenta,
-for dusting
Thyme sprigs, for garnish
1. Prepare broth. Heat oven to 450'. To make filling, roast squash,
cut side down, on a parchment-lined baking sheet, for 30 minutes.
Remove from oven; when cool enough to handle, scoop out flesh and
mash it.

2. In a saute pan over low heat melt butter, add shallots and thyme.
Saute for 2 to 3 minutes, then add mashed squash, syrup, and salt and
pepper to taste; continue cooking for 5 minutes. Remove from heat and
set aside.

3. To make dough, place flour in a mound on a clean surface. Make a
well and add the whole eggs, 2 yolks, 1 t salt, and 1 T water. Mix
egg and water with a fork until most of the flour is incorporated.
Form dough into a ball and knead until it is firm, smooth, and
elastic, about 5 minutes.

4. Divide dough into 4 pieces, shaping each piece into a flat round,
and wrap in plastic to keep from drying.

5. Dust both sides of 1 piece of dough with flour and feed it through
a pasta maker on the widest setting. Fold into thirds; repeat 3 times.
Continue feeding dough through machine without folding, dusting both
sides lightly with flour each time, once on each setting, from widest
to narrowest.

6. Place sheet of pasta on a lightly floured surface and cut into
3-by-3-inch squares with a pasta wheel or sharp knife. Lightly brush
each square with egg wash. Place 1 t of filling in the center of each
square; fold down the top point to form a triangle. Gently press
edges to seal. Brush the point opposite the longest edge with egg
wash; fold down the other points to the center and press together. As
you complete each tortelloni, place it on a baking sheet lined with
parchment and dusted with semolina. (Don't allow tortelloni to touch.)

7. Repeat from step 5 with remaining dough until filling is used up.
Dust tortelloni with semolina, cover with a towel, and refrigerate
until ready to use.

8. Bring a large pot of water to a boil, add salt, and cook tortelloni
until al dente, about 5 minutes.

9. Place 6 tortelloni in each of 6 bowls; pour broth over them, and
garnish with 2 thyme sprigs.

Martha Stewart Living/October/94 Scanned & edited by Di Pahl & <gg>

