Title: STEAMED RICE CAKE WITH MUNG BEANS
Categories: Rice, Beans, Korean
Yield: 1 Servings
3 c  Glutinous rice
2 c  Skinless yellow mung beans
2 ts Salt
1/4 c  Sugar
Nokdoo Ciru Pyun (Steamed Rice Cake with Mung Beans)

If the skinless yellow mung beans are unavailable, you may use the
green mung beans but they must be skinned before preparing this rice
cake. Soak them in water to cover for 4 hours. Rub the beans between
your hands in the water and the skins will separate quite easily.
Drain, discard the skins, and use the green beans as noted in the
recipe except that additional soaking is not necessary.

Glutinous rice, also known as sweet rice, is reserved in Asia for
special occasions, many times for sweets. The rice is dense and gummy
and can be attractive to western tastes. The Nokdoo has simple
ingredients, is vegetarian, fat-free and delicious, if
unconventional, for the tea and coffee hour break.

1. Rinse the rice well, cover with cold water and soak overnight or
for 12 hours. Drain well and grind in a processor. This will result
in a dense, sticky paste.

2. Cover the beans well with cold water and soak for 2 hours. Drain.
Put the beans in a Chinese-style steamer and steam them for 15
minutes. Grind the beans coarsely in a processor. Mix them with the
salt and sugar.

3. Wrap a wet kitchen towel (flat, not Turkish weave) over and around
the perforated steamer tray. Prepare a layered cake on the towel in
this way: Put down in a round or rectangle shape a layer 1/4-inch
thick of the ground mung beans. Cover this with 1/2 inch of the
glutinous rice and cover with another 1/4 inch of the beans. Cover
the steamer tightly and steam for 45 minutes to 1 hour. Test with a
toothpick. If the toothpick emerges dry, then the cake is done.

4. Lift out the cake in the towel and carefully turn it upside down
on a cutting board. Allow the cake to cool somewhat and slice into
convenient sections while still warm. Serve immediately while fresh
with tea or coffee.

The cake should be stored in a freeze since it does ferment when
refrigerator for more than 1 day. Put the cake sections in aluminum or
plastic trays, cover and freeze. Remove when wanted and rewarm in a
steamer for 5 to 10 minutes.

Source: "The Korean Kitchen" by Copeland Marks

