Title: STEAMED & CHILLED CLAMS W/LIME~ CHIVE~ & MUST
Categories: Seafood, Appetizers
Yield: 6 Servings
2 qt Steamer clams, medium *
MMMMM-----------------LIME, CHIVE, MUSTARD MAYO----------------------
1 x  Egg yolk, large
1 tb Lime juice, fresh
1 1/2 ts Dijon-style mustard
3/4 c  Oil **
1/2 ts Salt (or to taste)
1 pn White pepper, fresh
2 ts Chives
1/4 ts Lime zest, fresh ***
3 dr Tabasco
about 3 pounds ** corn, peanut, or other mild vegetable oil, NOT
*
olive. ***   colored rind only, no pith. Steamer (or soft-shell)
clams are naturally tender enough to be cooked, chilled, and sauced
for a vivid and satisfying first course.  The sauce here is no kin
whatsoever to the ketchupy stuff that too often swamps cold seafood;
it's a good bet with cold shrimp or crabmeat, too. Small quahogs (on
the East Coast) or Manila or other local hard clams (West Coast) may
be substituted for steamers. Because their shelled-out meats are
firmer and their necks needn't be skinned, they tend to be neater
morsels than the raggedy soft-shells, but steamers hold the edge from
flavor. Be sure to steam hard clams just until they begin to open;
they can toughen in a flash if over-cooked. Boil half an inch of
water in a large pot.  Add the well-scrubbed clams (see STORING &
CLEANING CLAMS), cover, and bring to a boil over high heat. Uncover
(to prevent boiling over) and cook, shaking the pot or stirring the
shellfish whenever the foam boils high, for 2 or 3 minutes, or just
until all the clams have opened. Pour the potful into a collander set
over a big bowl; reserve the broth. When the clams have cooled, shuck
them, pulling off and discarding the rubbery ring of membrane
encircling the bodies as well as the loose, dark skin covering the
"neck," or siphon. Place in a big bowl. Strain the broth onto the
clams through cheesecloth in a sieve; stop pouring before any sand
appears. Stir and swish the clams through the broth to further desand
them (some grains always survive the earlier steps). Lift out the
clams with a slotted spoon and set them aside. Let the broth settle,
strain it again, and repeat the clam rinsing and draining, twice if
it seems a good idea. Chill the clams. Refrigerate or freeze the
broth for a future chowder or sauce. No more than 3 hours before
serving, drain the clams again and fold them into about half the
mayonnaise. Refrigerate. To serve, divide the sauced clams among
seafood cocktail glasses or small glass bowls.  Top with more
mayonnaise; garnish with a leaf or two of green stuff -- parsley,
coriander, watercress, or baby lettuce. LIME, CHIVE, & MUSTARD
MAYONNAISE: Whisk together the egg yolk, lime juice, and mustard.
Whisking hard, begin adding oil a few drops at a time, beating in
each addition completely before adding more. After the mixture has
thickened, add the remaining oil in a thin stream while beating
rapidly. Season with salt, pepper, chives, lime zes, and Tabasco.
Taste carefully; the mayonnaise should be highly seasoned, so add
more lime juice, mustard, pepper, and/or Tabasco if needed, but be
cautious about the salt -- the clams will supply enough brininess for
most tastes. Refrigerate until needed. STORING & CLEANING CLAMS:
Store fresh clams in the refrigerator with a light covering, not
airtight. Clean them as close to cooking time as possible.  To clean,
scrub the shells under the running cold tap with a vegetable or
potato brush; give special attention to the hinges. Cover with fresh
water and soak for an hour or so, stirring them about once or twice.
Lift them out of the soaking water to leave behind the sand they will
have shed.
-- from MRS. WITTY'S HOME-STYLE MENU COOKBOOK,
by Helen Witty

