Title: STEAK & KIDNEY PIE WITH GUINNESS
Categories: Pies
Yield: 6 Servings
2 lb Chuck Steak; trimmed, in
-1.2 inch pieces
12 oz Ox Kidney; Cored and Chopped
1/4 pt Guinness
4 tb Beef Dripping or Lard
2 md Onions; Sliced
3 tb Flour; Liberally Seasoned
2 lg Mushrooms; Sliced
3/4 pt Beef Stock or water
1    Bay Leaf
4    Thyme; Sprigs
MMMMM-----------------------FOR THE PASTRY----------------------------
8 oz Self-raising Flour
4 oz Shredded Suet or Lard
Salt and Pepper
1    Egg yolk; mixed with a
-splash of milk
Place the steak and kidney in a bowl with the guinness and herbs.
Cover and leave for at least 4 hours, preferably overnight. Drain the
meat, reserving the marinade. Toss the meat in the seasoned flour.
Heat 1 tsp of the dripping or lard in a large, heavy pan and gently
fry the onions for five minutes. Remove the onions to a plate, add
more of the dripping to the pan and fry the floured meat in batches
until it's browned on all sides. Return the onions and the rest of
the meat and any remaining flour to the pan. Stir thoroughly, then
add the mushrooms, marinade, herbs and stock or water. Bring slowly
to a simmer, stirring as the sauce thickens, then cover the pan and
cook gently for 1.5 hours. Taste the gravy, adjust the seasoning with
salt and pepper and remove the herbs. Transfer to a deep pie dish,
place a pie funnel in the middle and leave to cool.

To Make the pastry. Sift the flour into a bowl. Sprinkle in the suet
or add the lard, season with salt and pepper and mix lightly with
your hands. Sprinkle in 2 tb of cold water, adding more as you mix
with a knife. As it begins to clump together, use your hands to work
it into a smooth, elastic dough. Leave to rest for five minutes, then
roll out the pastry slightly thicker than normal. Cut a one-inch
strip and lay it around the inside edge of the pie dish. Dampen it
with water, then put the pastry lid in place. Trim and crimp the
edge, knocking it back with the flat blade of a knife so that the
actual edge looks as deep as possible. Make a small steamhole in the
centre and cut some leaves from the pastry trimmings to decorate the
top. Paint the pie lid with glaze. Bake in a pre-heated oven to
200C/400F/Gas Mark 6 for 15 minutes. Lower the heat to 180C/350F/Gas
mark 4 and cook for 30 minutes until the pastry is golden brown.

Lindsay Bareham

