Title: STEAMED BUNS WITH DIPPING SAUCE
Categories: Digest, Jan.
Yield: 1 Servings
1/4 md Red bell pepper, finely
Diced (I'd use more next
Time )
2    Scallions, finely chopped
(both white and green parts;
Reserve 1*teaspoon
For dipping sauce)
1    Minced garlic clove (reserve
1/8*t for dipping
Sauce)
Marinated mushrooms from
Above recipe
1/4 c  Whole water chestnuts,
Finely diced
1 tb Hoisin sauce
1 tb All-purpose flour
Bun dough (see above
Recipe)
3 tb Low-sodium soy sauce
1 ts White vinegar
1/4 ts Hot chili oil
Chopped cilantro for
Garnish
In large non-stick saucepan, add bell pepper, scallions, and garlic,
and cook, stirring constantly, until peppers are soft, 5-8 minutes.
Chop mushrooms (the pieces need to be fairly small to go in the
dumplings) and add, with marinade, to peppers. Add water chestnuts
and hoison sauce; cook until most of liquid has evaporated, 3-4
minutes. Cover and refrigerate until ready to use.

Sprinkle work surface with flour. Turn bun dough out onto prepared
surface, knead 1 minute and roll into a log, about 16" long and 1
1/2" wide. Cut dough into 16 equal pieces and roll each into a ball.
Flatten each ball with the palm of your hand into a 3" diameter
circle. Place a heaping teaspoon of filling mixture in center of each
dough round, and gather up edges to enclose filling, twisting edges
together and pressing to seal. Repeat with remaining dough and
filling, covering buns with plastic wrap.

WARNING: This takes a little practice, so I'd recommend that you plan
on *not* serving the first 2 or 3 you make to company. =-)

Line steamer rack with cheesecloth or wax paper (I used cabbage
leaves). Place in large shallow saucepan or wok; add 2" water, cover
and bring to rolling boil. Arrange 8 of the buns at least 1" apart on
prepared steamer rack; cover and steam until puffy, tender and cooked
through, 15-20 minutes. Repeat with remaining buns, adding water to
pan as necessary. (I did this in my Black and Decker steamer, which
only allowed for 4 dumplings at a time. I filled the water to the
highest water mark, refilling after steaming 8 dumplings.)

Meanwhile, prepare dipping suace: In small bowl, combine soy sauce, 1
tablespoon water, the reserved scallions, the vinegar, the reserved
garlic, and the hot chili oil, if using; sprinkle with cilantro, if
using.

Serve freshly steamed buns immediately, with dipping suace on the
side, or cool and freeze for later use. (To reheat, thaw until soft
and steam until warmed through, 5 minutes.)

Enjoy! The recipe also says that you can use other veggies and sauces
~- try chopping up your favorite ff chinese dish and making it into a
filling!

Posted by thorp@sas.upenn.edu (Patricia Thorp) to the Fatfree Digest
[Volume 14 Issue 11] Jan. 11, 1995.

Individual recipes copyrighted by originator. FATFREE Recipe
collections copyrighted by Michelle Dick 1995. Formatted by Sue Smith,
SueSmith9@aol.com using MMCONV. Archived through kindness of Karen
Mintzias, km@salata.com.

1.80รก

