Title: STEGT KYLLING (BRAISED CHICKEN WITH PARSLEY)
Categories: Poultry, Main dish
Yield: 4 Servings
3 lb Roasting chicken (to 3.5 lb)
1 tb Salt
8 tb Butter; softened
1 lg Bunch parsley
2 tb Butter
1/4 c  Vegetable oil
1/2 c  Water
1 c  Heavy cream
Preheat oven to 325øF. Pat the chicken dry with paper towels, then
rub it thoroughly inside and out with salt. Cream 1/4 pound of butter
by using an electric mixer set at medium speed or by beating it
vigoriusly against the side of a bowl with a wooden spoon. With a
pastry brush and your fingers, spread it inside the chicken. Then
stuff the chicken with the entire bunch of parsley and truss the bird
so that it will hold it's shape while cooking. Heat 2 tablespoons of
butter and the oil over moderate heat on top of stove in a heavy,
flameproof casserole or roasting pan just large enough to hold the
chicken comfortably, and put the chicken in breast side down. After
about 5 minutes, turn the bird on it's side. Try to avoid breaking
the skin. In another 5 minutes, when this side is sufficiently
browned, turn the chicken on it's other side for 5 minutes, then
finally on it's back for 5 minutes or so. The browning of the chicken
should take about 20 minutes in all. Transfer the chicken to a
platter and pour off all but 1 tablespoon of fat from the casserole.
In its place add 1/2 cup water and bring to a boil, stirring
vigorously to scrape up any browned bits clinging to the pan. Return
the chicken to the casserole, breast side up, cover tightly and place
in over to braise for about 1 hour. To test, lift the chicken upright
out of the pan with a wooden spoon inserted in the tail opening. If
the juice that runs out is yellow, the chicken is done; if still
somewhat pink, cook another 5 to 10 minutes. Place the chicken on a
carving board and let rest for 5 minutes while you make the sauce.
Skim and discard fat from the pan juices, add the cream and bring to
a boil, stirring rapidly and scraping up any browned bits in the
bottom and sides of the pan. Boil the sauce briskly for several
minutes until the cream has reduced and the sauce thickens. Taste for
seasoning adding salt if needed. Serve chicken with sauce in a heated
sauceboat.

