Title: STEWED TOMATOES WITH POTATO PEASANT PURSES
Categories: Main dish, Cyberealm
Yield: 3 Servings
STEWED TOMATOES
1 md Yellow onion
1 sm Red or yellow pepper
1    Stalk celery
2 tb Canola oil
3 lb Ripe tomatoes, coarsely chop
7    Sprigs fresh parsley
1/2 c  Light brown sugar
Juice of 2 lemons
1 ts Salt
1/2 ts Fresh ground black pepper
PEASANT PURSES
6 lg Cabbage leaves (savoy)
1 md Yellow onion, chopped
1/3 c  Butter
1/2 c  English peas
2 tb Water
3 c  Mashed potatoes
2    Eggs, lightly beaten
Salt and pepper to taste
12    Green chives
Chop the onion, bell pepper and celery into 1/2 inch pieces. In a
large stainless steel pot, saute the vegetables in the oil over
medium heat until translucent.  Peel, seed and chop the tomatoes (I
just core them and put them in the blender so we get the vitamins
from the skins). Add tomatoes and parsley to the vegetables and cook
covered over low heat for 20 minutes.  Remove parsley sprigs.  Season
with 1/4 cup brown sugar, lemon juice, salt and pepper.  Cook for 10
minutes longer and taste for seasoning.  Add more sugar or salt, to
taste. Keep warm until ready to serve.  (At this point, I added a
small amount of cornstarch to thicken the sauce.)

In a 2-quart pot of boiling water, blanch the cabbage leaves until
wilted; drain and cool.  In a saute pan over medium heat, sweat the
onion in butter.  Add peas and water, cover for 2-3 minutes. Remove
cover and cool slightly.  Meanwhile, in a large bowl, blend the
mashed potatoes with eggs. Stir in the onion and pea mixture. Salt
and pepper generously. Flatten a cabbage leaf, cutting out any thick,
unpliable stem. Place a generous 1/2 cup of potato mixture in the
center of two leaves laid to overlap. Pull the leaves together,
forming a pouch and tie with 2 chives. Just before serving, reheat
the pouches for approximately 15 minutes in a steamer or a shallow
pan of boiling water. Place each pouch on a plate covered with the
warm stewed tomatoes.

These purses go nicely with grilled English-style sausages or
bratwurst. A sprinkling of grated cheddar cheese on top is a perfect
complement to this dish. The flavors of the potatoes, cabbage and
stewed tomatoes are as rustic as the presentation of this dish.

From: Tomatoes, A Country Garden Cookbook by Jesse Ziff Cool, Collins
Publishers, San Francisco, 1994.

Typed for you by Loren Martin,Big Cabin, OK

