Title: STICKY TOFFEE PUDDING WITH WARM TOFFEE SAUCE
Categories: Desserts
Yield: 15 Servings
Toffee sauce:
3 c  Whiping cream
2 ts Molasses
2 1/4 c  Packed brown sugar
Pudding:
1 c  Date pieces (coated
With oat flour preferred)
1 c  Water
1 c  Plus
2 tb Unbleached all
Purpose flour
1 ts Baking powder
1/2 ts Salt
4 tb Soft unsalted butter
3/4 c  Granulated sugar
2 lg Eggs
1 ts Vanilla extract
1 ts Baking soda
1 1/2 c  Cold heavy whipping
Cream (unwhipped)
For serving
COOK THE TOFFEE SAUCE: stir the cream, molasses and brown sugar
together in a large saucepan. heat over medium heat, stirring, until
the bronw sugar is dissolved. simmer gently, uncovered, for 30
minutes. the sauce will reduce slightly.

PREPARE THE PUDDING: postition an oven rack in the middle of the oven.
preheat the oven to 350 degrees. butter the loaf pan of your choice.
line the bottom of the pan with wax paper and butter the paper.

put the dates and water in a medium saucepan and bring to a boil.
remove from the heat and set aside to cool while you prepare the
pudding.

sift flour and salt together and set aside.  put the butter in a
large bowl of an electric mixer.  add the garanulated sugar and beat
at medium speed until the mixture lightens in color and looks fluffy,
about 1 minute. add the eggs and vanilla and beat until smooth, about
30 seconds. decreas the speed of the mixer to low and ;mix in the
flour mixture just until flour is incorporated.  pres any lumps out
of the baking powder and gently stir it into the date mixture. mix
the dates and any liquid into the cake batter.

pour the batter into the prepared loaf pan and bake 35 minutes. gently
touch the cake;  it should feel firm. if the cake is not firm, bake
another 5 minutes. reduce the oven heat to 250 and pour 3/4 of a cup
of the warm toffee sauce over the top of the cake and bake another 25
minutes. the cake will sink slightly in the middle. remove the cake
from the oven and let the cake cool in the pan.

TO SERVE: slice, pour warm toffee sauce over the top and then pour a
bit of heavy cream over top of that.

DEEEE-LICIOUS!

