Title: STIR FRIED PORK SLICES IN WINE SAUCE
Categories: Pork
Yield: 4 Servings
1 ts Rice wine vinegar
3    Cloves garlic -- minced
2 tb Sherry
2    Egg yolks
3/4 c  Chicken stock
1 ts Water
Cornstarch paste
1 c  Bread crumbs -- plain
1 1/2 lb Pork loin -- boneless
3 tb Peanut oil
PASTE-----
2 tb Cooked rice
2 tb Soy sauce -- dark
1/2 ts Sugar
2 tb Warm water
1 ts Baker's yeast -- dry
1 ts Wet bean cheese
Prepare Paste:  Use mortar and pestle to pulverize cooked rice.
Combine with sugar, yeast, soy and warm water. Let stand in warm
place for 30 minutes to activate yeast. Authentic wine lees paste is
not available in the U.S. to our knowledge, this is the best
substitute we have found. You can add wet bean cheese for a sharper
flavor.

Braise Pork:  Slice pork butt across the grain into strips, 1" by 3"
by 1/2" thick. Heat peanut oil in wok until it begins to smoke. Add
some of pork to hot oil; stir-fry pieces until they lose their
pinkness; repeat in batches until all pork is browned.  Next, add
garlic to wok; stir briefly. Pour in wine lees paste, rice vinegar,
sherry and stock; bring to slow boil; add pork slices. Reduce heat,
cover, and simmer for 30 minutes.

Remove pork, without sauce, to large platter.  Cool pork. Cooling is
essential so that it will deep-fry properly. Reserve sauce in small
pan. You can hold pork for several hours, if you wish to braise it in
advance.

Deep-fry Pork:  Heat deep-frying oil in wok.  While oil is heating,
beat egg yolks with water; set out bread crumbs on platter. Dip pork
pieces in egg mixture, then bread crumbs, to thoroughly cover.

When oil is at deep-frying temperature, 375 degrees, slip in a slice
of pork as a test: pork should lightly brown in about 1 minute. Place
6 pork slices on Chinese strainer, and lower into oil, strainer and
all. Check in 2 minutes (browning should take slightly longer than
test because strainer cools the oil). If you prefer to fry in larger
batches, use more oil. Remove fried pork to warm platter, uncovered.

Finish:  Reheat sauce, and pour over pork just before serving.

:
Recipe By

