Title: STRAWBERRY-FILLED CHOCOLATE CAKE HEARTS
Categories: Cakes, Fruits, Chocolate, Strawberry
Yield: 14 Servings
1 c  Cake flour -- sifted, plus
1 tb Cake flour -- sifted,
Divided
3/4 c  Sugar -- plus
2 ts Sugar -- divided
1/3 c  Unsweetened cocoa powder
1 ts Baking powder
1/2 ts Baking soda
1/8 ts Salt
1/2 c  Water
1/4 c  Vegetable oil
2 ts Vanilla extract
5    Egg whites -- room
Temperature
1 ts Powdered sugar -- sifted
1 3/4 c  Strawberries -- thinly
Sliced
Choc-Orange Sauce --
Separate recipe
Preheat oven to 325 degrees.  Line a 15 x 10-inch jelly roll pan with
aluminum foil, allowing foil to extend beyond ends of pan. Coat foil
with nonstick cooking spray; dust with 1 tablespoon flour and set
aside. Combine 3/4 cup flour, 1/4 cup plus 2 teaspoons sugar, cocoa,
baking powder, baking soda and salt in a bowl; stir well. Make a well
in the center of the mixture. Combine water, oil and vanilla; add to
dry ingredients, stirring until blended.  Set aside. Beat egg whites
in a large bowl until foamy. Add 1/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar, 1
tablespoon at a time, beating until stiff peaks form.  Fold 1/3 of
egg white mixture into chocolate mixture. Carefully fold in remaining
egg whites and 1/4 cup flour. Spoon batter into prepared pan,
spreading evenly to the sides of the pan. Bake for 25 minutes, or
until a toothpick inserted in the center comes out clean. Cool in pan
for 30 minutes. Invert pan onto a baking sheet; remove pan, and
carefully peel foil away from cake. Cut cake into 28 hearts, using a
2 1/2-inch heart-shaped cookie cutter; discard remaining cake.
Sprinkle hearts with powdered sugar; set aside. Combine sliced
strawberries and remaining 2 teaspoons sugar in a small bowl; toss
well. Spoon about 1 tablespoon Chocolate-Orange Sauce onto a dessert
plate; top with a chocolate cake heart, 2 tablespoons sliced
strawberries, and another cake heart.  Repeat procedure with
remaining ingredients. (152 calories, 3. 9g fat, 23% calories from
fat)

: Cooking Light, Guilt-Free Desserts
Recipe By

