Title: STUFFED EGGPLANT CASSEROLE
Categories: Beef
Yield: 4 Servings
1/4 c  Pine nuts; to taste
1/4 c  Vegetable oil
12    Italian eggplants; 4- or 5-i
2 tb Water
6 oz Ground beef; --or--
6 oz Ground lamb
2 ts Garlic; chopped
1 sm Bay leaf
1 sm Onion; grated
1/2 c  Green bell pepper; core/seed
3/4 ts Ground allspice
1/8 ts Ground cinnamon
2 ts Jalapeno, finely minced; or
1 pn Cloves; ground
1 pn Nutmeg; grated
3 ts Tomato paste
1/2 c  Water
1/4 c  Chopped parsley; (plus 2 tbs
1 pn Sugar
2    Tomatoes; seeded and sliced
Salt; to taste
Fresh ground pepper
Recipe by: Joel.Ehrlich@salata.com (Joel Ehrlich) Brown the nuts in
1/4 of the oil in a (9") skillet. Add the meat and cook until brown
and crumbly, one to two minutes. Add the grated onion and the first
measure of water. Cook for two minutes more. Stir in the spices, one
third of the tomato paste, the first measure of parsley and salt and
pepper. Set aside. Remove 1/2" wide vertical strips of peel all
around the eggplants, leaving 1" between them. Heat another 1/4 of
the oil in a large nonstick skillet over moderate heat. Cook the
eggplants, tightly covered, until the flesh is golden and tender,
about 15 minutes, turning them over halfway through the cooking. Cool
on racks over paper towels. Discard the oil from the skillet. Add the
remaining oil and the chopped onion, garlic, bay leaf and peppers.
Cook, uncovered, for five minutes, stirring. Dissolve the remaining
tomato paste in the second measure of water, add it and cook one
minute longer. Season with salt, pepper and sugar. Set aside. Press
open one of the striped sides of each eggplant to form a small
cavity. Spread the meat filling in each, about two tablespoons.
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees. Spread the vegetable sauce on the
bottom of a (12") baking dish. Arrange the eggplants in it and top
with the tomato slices. Cover with foil and bake 45 minutes. Uncover
and bake 15 minutes longer. Sprinkle with the second measure of
parsley and serve.

Yields 4 Servings

