Title: STUFFED SQUID WITH CHOCOLATE SAUCE
Categories: Fish
Yield: 4 Servings
Stephen Ceideburg
1 lb Squid, cleaned, dried
1/2 lb Ground pork
Olive oil
1    Onion, finely diced
1 sm Carrot, finely diced
2    Garlic cloves, minced
2    Parsley sprigs, minced
1/4 c  Bread crumbs
1/2 c  Pine nuts, lightly toasted
Salt, pepper
1 c  Fish, shellfish or chicken
-stock
1/2 c  Dry white wine
10    To 12 almonds, blanched,
-roasted
1 oz Lbarra brand chocolate,
-coarsely grated (see note)
2 sl Fried crustless French bread
-(not sourdough)
Adapted from "Catalan Cuisine " by Colman Andrews.

Remove heads and tentacles from squid and set bodies aside. Mince
heads and tentacles, then mix well with the ground pork (may use a
food processor).

Heat about 1/2 inch of olive oil in a cassola (like a cazuela, the
straight-sided pottery vessel used for paella and other dishes in
Spain) or large skillet and saute the onion, carrot, garlic and
parsley in it until the onions are wilted; add the pork mixture,
crumbs and half the pine nuts, mixing together well and cooking until
the meat is well done. Season to taste with salt and pepper, then
remove mixture from pan and drain on paper towels or in a colander.

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.

When the pork mixture is cool, lightly stuff the reserved squid
bodies with it (do not overstuff, or the squid will shrink and tear
during cooking). Bake the squid in a single layer, uncovered, in a
lightly oiled baking dish for about 20 minutes.

Meanwhile, deglaze the cassola with the stock and wine, simmering
until it is reduced by about half. While the liquid reduces, put the
almonds, remaining pine nuts, chocolate and fried bread in a mortar
and pound with a pestle until finely ground, then moisten with a bit
of the liquid to make a thick paste (it must be fine, without grainy
texture). Add this mixture to the reduced liquid, stir in well,
return to the boil and season to taste. Pour over the stuffed squid,
or spoon onto serving plates and set the squid on top of the sauce.

Note: lbarra chocolate is sweetened and flavored with almonds and
cinnamon and is available in many markets in the Bay Area.

PER SERVING: 535 calories, 31 g protein, 16 g carbohydrate, 40 g fat
(10 g saturated), 239 mg cholesterol 96 mg sodium, 3 g fiber.

Jayne Benet writing in the San Francisco Chronicle, 3/18/92.

Posted by Stephen Ceideburg

