Title: STUFFED POTATOES (PAPAS RELLENOS)
Categories: Potatoes
Yield: 4 Servings
8 oz White potatoes; peeled
2    Poblano chiles; stemmed,
-seeded,
Peeled, and finely chopped,
-about 2/3 cup
4 pn Bacon
1/4 c  Chorizo
1 tb Olive oil
1/2 c  Queso fresco; or monterey
-jack
Cheese, grated
1/2 c  Sour cream
1/2 c  Queso panela; or feta cheese
Recipe by: James W. Peyton, El Norte Cookbook (Cuisine of No. Simmer
the peeled potatoes in water to cover until they are soft enough to
pierce fairly easily with a skewer except toward the center. This
will take about 20 minutes.

Remove the potatoes from the water and when they are cool enough to
handle slice a 1/4-inch piece lengthwise from one side to create a
level surface.

Using a paring knife and medium-sized spoon, cut and scoop out the
interiors of the potatoes from the flattened side, leaving a 1/4- to
1/3 inch wall all around. It is important that the interior portion
of the potatoes, which is removed and which will be the stuffing, be
firm and cut into fairly equal-sized pieces of 1/2 inch. Place the
chopped potato centers in a bowl and add the chopped poblano chiles.

Heat a skillet over medium heat and fry the bacon until it is crisp;
then remove and reserve it. Fry the chorizo until it is golden and
remove and reserve it. Toss the oil with the chopped potato centers
and chiles and fry until the potatoes are crisp and golden brown;
then place them in a bowl.

Chop the bacon and add it and the chorizo to the potato/chile mixture
and allow it to come to room temperature. Stir in the queso fresco or
Monterey Jack cheese and the sour cream.

Fill the reserved potato shells with the above mixture and bake until
they are hot and cooked through, about 25 to 30 minutes. Place
potatoes on serving plates and sprinkle on the queso panela or feta
cheese. Serve with broiled meats or poultry.

Adapted for MasterCook by Brenda Adams <adamsfmle@sprintmail.com>
James W. Peyton; El Norte, The Cuisine of Northern Mexico posted mc
11/12/96

