Title: STUFFED PORK CHOPS
Categories: Cajun, Main dish, Meats
Yield: 6 Servings
2 ea Med. apples coarsely chopped
7 tb Unsalted butter
3 tb Light brown sugar
1 ts Vanilla extract
1/2 ts Ground nutmeg
MMMMM-----------------------SEASONING MIX----------------------------
1 tb Salt
1 ts Onion powder
1 ts Ground cayenne pepper
3/4 ts Garlic powder
1/2 ts White pepper
1/2 ts Dry mustard
1/2 ts Rubbed sage
1/2 ts Ground cumin
1/2 ts Black pepper
1/2 ts Dried thyme leaves
MMMMM-------------------PORK CHOP INGREDIENTS------------------------
6 ea 1-3/4" thick pork chops
3/4 lb Ground pork
1 c  Chopped onions
1 c  Chopped green bell peppers
2 ts Minced garlic
1 cn (4 oz) diced green chilies
1 c  Pork or chicken stock
1/2 c  Very fine bread crumbs
1/2 c  Finely chopped green onions
In a food processor or blender, process the apples, 4 Tablespoons of
the butter, the sugar, vanilla and nutmeg until smooth, about 3 to 4
minutes. Set aside.
In a small bowl thoroughly combine the seasoning mix ingredients;
set aside.
Prepare the pork chops by cutting a large pocket (to the bone) into
the larger side of each chop to hold the stuffing.
In a large skillet, brown the ground pork in the remaining 3 Tbsp.
butter over high heat, about 3 minutes. Add the onions, bell peppers,
garlic, and 2 Tbsp. of the seasoning mix, stirring well; cook about 5
minutes, stirring occasionally and scraping pan bottom well. Stir in
the green chilies and their juice and continue cooking until mixture
is well browned, about 6 to 8 minutes, stirring occasionally and
scraping the pan bottom as needed. Add the stock and cook 5 minutes,
stirring frequently. Stir in the bread crumbs and cook about 2
minutes more, stirring constantly and scraping pan bottom as needed.
Remove from heat.
Sprinkle the remaining seasoning mix evenly on both sides of the
chops and inside the pockets, pressing it in by hand. Prop chops with
pocket side up in an ungreased 13x9-inch baking pan. Spoon about 1/4
cup stuffing into each pocket; reserve the remaining stuffing. Bake
chops with pocket up at 400F until the meat is done, about 1 hour 10
minutes. Place the remaining stuffing in a small pan in the oven for
the last 20 minutes to reheat.
Serve immediately with each chop arranged on top of a portion of the
remaining stuffing.

