Title: SUMMER SAUSAGE (BEEF STICK)
Categories: Beef, Pork/ham
Yield: 10 Pounds
6 lb Beef chuck; including about
-1 pound fat, cubed
*4 lb Pork, pre-frozen or
-certified; including about
-1/2 pound fat, cubed
5 tb Salt
2 tb Sugar
1 tb Pepper, white
2 ts Coriander seed; crushed
1 tb Peppercorns, black
1/4 ts Nutmeg
1 c  Wine, red, dry
1/4 ts Ascorbic acid
1 ts Saltpeter
4    Feet beef casings; large
-(3 1/2" to 4" diameter)
MMMMM--------------------FLAVOURING SOLUTION-------------------------
1/4 c  ;Water
1/2 c  Sugar
2 tb Wine vinegar, white
1 tb Maple flavoring
1/2 ts Cloves, ground
1 ts Lemon extract
Rinse casings and soak in tepid water 1 hour.

Grind the beef through the fine disk twice, chilling it between
grindings. Grind the pork through the fine blade once and mix it with
the beef.

Make the flavouring solution:  bring the water to a boil and stir in
the

sugar until it is dissolved.  Reduce the heat so that the liquid is
barely simmering and add the remaining ingredients. Turn off the heat
and allow the mixture to cool.

Mix the flavouring solution and all the remaining ingredients into the
meat.

Cure the sausage in the refrigerator for twenty-four hours. Stuff the
meat into the casings and tie off into six-inch or eight-inch links.

Smoke the sausage with a cool (80-90 F) smoke for about twelve hours.

Increase the smoke temperature to about 120 F and continue to smoke
for abut four or five more hours, or until the sausage is firm.

Let the sausage hang in a cool place at least two weeks before eating.

* Pork to be consumed raw, as in dried sausage, can be made
completely safe and free of trichinae by freezing it to -20 F for six
to twelve days. -10 F for ten to twenty days or 5 F for twenty to
thirty days. These guidelines have been set by the USDA for
commercial packers and are perfectly safe if followed by the home
sausage maker.

If you can't or don't wish to tie up freezer space to treat your own
sausage meat, you can ask your butcher to order you some "certified"
pork. Certified pork has been frozen to render it trichinosis free
and comes stamped or labeled as such.  Make sure you see the stamp or
label.
Home Sausage Making - 1987
per Clarence Fontish

Date: 07-17-96
From: Sam Waring

