Title: SUNOMONO OR JAPANESE NOODLE & CUCUMBER SALAD
Categories: Oriental
Yield: 4 Servings
5    To 6 oz. of dry vermicelli
Noodles
6 tb Rice vinegar
4 ts Sugar
2 ts Soy sauce
1 ts Salt
1    To 2 tbsp of sesame seeds
1    Medium-sized cucumber
- extra sesame seeds for the
Top
- scallion greens, thinly
Sliced-optional (I used the
Scallions greens)
1) Cook the noodles in boiling water until just tender. Drain and
rinse in cold water. Drain thoroughly, and transfer to a medium-sized
bowl. (My advice, store in water if not using right away!) 2) Add
vinegar, sugar, soy sauce, salt, and sesame seeds. Mix well. Cover
and chill until cold. (Don't chill for too long or the noodles will
stick together. I did this but was able to save it by adding more
rice vinegar until the noodles separated again. It tasted great.) 3)
Peel adn seed the cucumber. Cut into quarters lengthwise, then into
thin pieces. If not serving right away, wrap the cucumber pieces in a
plastic bag or plastic wrap and refrigerate. 4) To serve, divide the
noodles amon 4 or 5 serving bowls. Top with a small handful of
cucumber slices, a light sprinkling of sesame seeds, and , if
desired, a few very thin slices of scallion greens. Serve cold.

This salad is subtle adn very refreshing. There is a variety of
textures-chewy cold noodles (bean thread noodles, some call them
cellophane noodles 'cause when you boil them they become clear),
crunchy sesame seeds, and smooth cucumber slices. Sweet, salt, and
vinegar combine harmoniously, each understated but very much present.

Everything except the cucumbers and toppings can be combined several
days ahead of time. (I beg to differ on this claim because, if you
don't keep the boiled noodles in cold water while setting them aside,
they will stick together.) The cucumbers can be prepared ahead also,
and kept separate until serving.

Note: The dressing contains no oil. ( However the sesame seeds do)

Prep time:  15 minutes, plus chilling time, Yield: 4 to 5 servings

Bon Appetit!

Tina Dupart (tdupart@cisco.com) Formatted by Sue Smith, S.Smith34,
TXFT40A@Prodigy.com using MMCONV Fatfree Digest [Volume 9 Issue 6]
June 27, 1994

