Title: SUSAN PURDY'S TOURTIERE (FRENCH CANADIAN PORK
Categories: Pork
Yield: 6 Servings
1    Egg, beaten lightly
1 tb Water
For the filling:
1 lg Yellow onion, chopped
2    Or 3 Tbsp. oil or margarine
1    Clove garlic, minced
1 1/2 lb Raw pork, trimmed of fat and
-minced or ground,
Or use 1 lb. pork plus 1/2
-lb. veal
1 c  Pork gravy or stock or rich
-boullion (chicken or beef)
1 lb (3 medium) potatoes, boiled,
-peeled and chopped coarsely
1 tb Chopped celery leaves
-(optional)
2 tb Parsley, chopped
1/4 ts Each thyme, and either
-rosemary or savory
1/8 ts Each ground allspice and
-pepper
1/8 ts Ground cloves
1/4 ts Ground cinnamon
1 ts Salt, or to taste
FOR THE EGG GLAZE: Roll out half the dough from the Butter-Lard
Pastry on a lightly floured surface to 1/8 inch thickness. Fold in
quarters, lift, and position in a pie plate. Trim a 1/2 inch
overhang, brush with the egg glaze, then refrigerate the pastry-lined
pan while you prepare the filling.

In a frying pan, saute the onion in the oil until transparent. Add the
garlic and saute 1 minute, then add the minced pork. Saute about 3
minutes, then add the veal (if you are using it) and saute until the
meats are browned. Break up any clumps with a wooden spoon. Add about
1/2 cup stock, cover the pan, and simmer about 15 minutes to cook the
meat through. Uncover the frying pan and check the liquid. Remove all
but 2 or 3 tbsp. of the meat juice and stock. Add the potatoes,
celery leaves, parsley, herbs and spices, and stir to blend. Add
salt, taste, and adjust the seasoning. Add, if necessary, just enough
additional gravy or stock to moisten the mixture well without making
it watery.

Spoon the mixture into the prepared pastry shell. Brush some egg
glaze on the overhang of the lower crust. Roll out the top crust on a
lightly floured surface, fold in quarters, lift, and position it over
the pie. Trim a 3/4 inch overhang, then fold the top edge under the
bottom crust overhang and pinch the two together to seal, making a
raised rim all around. Flute the edge as desired.

Bake in the lower third of a preheated 425-degree oven for 15 minutes.
Reduce the heat to 350 degress, raise the pie to the center of the
oven, and continue baking about 45 to 55 minutes longer until golden
brown. Check halfway through the baking time and add a foil edging to
protect the crust from overbrowning if necessary. Cool slightly on a
wire rack, then serve hot or warm.

