Title: SWEET & SOUR PORK (TIEM SHUEN GEE YOK)
Categories: Chinese, Pork, Fruits, Vegetables
Yield: 1 Servings
1 lb Pork fillet
1 tb Rice Wine
1 tb Soy sauce
1/2 c  Cornstarch
1 sm Carrot
1 lg Green pepper
2 sl Canned pineapple
4    Chinese dried mushrooms
1 cl Garlic
1/4 c  White vinegar
1/2 c  Water
1/8 ts Black pepper
1 tb Soy sauce
1 tb Salt
5 tb Sugar
1 ts Dried chili pepper
1 tb Cornstarch
1 tb Water
Oil for deep frying
2 tb Oil
PREPARATION:

Cut pork into 3/4-inch cubes.  Mix the sherry and 1 tablespoon soy
sauce together, and add to the pork. With your fingers rub the
mixture into meat. Still using your fingers, roll the cubes in about
1/2 cup cornstarch until thoroughly dredged but not too thickly
covered. (The fineness of the end result of this recipe depends on
the meat's being crisp -- never soggy.) Cut the carrot on the
diagonal into 1/4-inch slices. Cut the green pepper in half; remove
seeds and cut into 1-inch squares. Cut the pineapple slices into
1/2-inch wedges. Wash the Chinese mushrooms and soak in warm water
for 30 minutes.  Drain, remove stems. Cut into 1/2-inch strips.
Smash, peel, and mince garlic. Combine garlic, carrots, green pepper,
pineapple, and mushrooms.  Combine vinegar, 1/2 cup water, black
pepper, 1 tablespoon soy sauce, salt, sugar, and chili pepper. In a
cup, mix 1 tablespoon cornstarch with 1 tablespoon water.

COOKING:

Heat oil in deep fry pan to 375-degrees.  Cook pork cubes a few at a
time until very light brown, about 5 minutes. Stir with a chopstick
occasionally so that the cubes do not touch each other. Drain on
paper towels, and keep hot in low oven (200-degrees). Repeat this
process, cooking pork in hot oil until cubes float and are golden
brown -- 2 to 3 minutes. (This double cooking insures that the meat
will be crisp.) Heat the water-vinegar mixture in small saucepan. In
a medium-sized skillet or wok, heat 2 tablespoons of oil at high
heat.  Add vegetable-pineapple mixture and stir-fry for 4 minutes.
Add the hot water-vinegar mixture to the vegetables and stir well.
Add the cornstarch mixture, and cook and stir until thickened, about
1 minute. Pour sauce over pork cubes and mix.

SOURCE: ORIENTAL COOKING by Schryver

