Title: SWEET YEAST DOUGH~ STICKY BUNS~ CINNAMON ROLL
Categories: Breads, Desserts, Buns
Yield: 12 Buns
SWEET YEAST DOUGH
2 pk (1/4 oz. each) active
Dry yeast
1/4 c  Warm water
3    Eggs
1/3 c  Granulated sugar
2 ts Salt
1/2 ts Baking soda
1 c  Buttermilk or sour milk
1/2 c  Melted butter or
Vegetable oil
3 3/4 c  All-purpose flour
2 c  Whole wheat flour
1/4 c  Wheat germ
CURRANT-PECAN FILLING
FOR STICKY BUNS
1 1/2 c  Packed brown sugar
1/2 c  Butter, softened
1 1/2 tb Ground cinnamon
1/2 c  Dried currants
3/4 c  Finely chopped pecans
Combine all in a bowl
And mix thoroughly.
Reserve.
STICKY PECAN GLAZE
FOR STICKY BUNS
1 c  Butter, softened
1 3/4 c  Packed brown sugar
1/4 c  Dark corn syrup
3/4 c  Small pecan halves or
Coarsely chopped pecans
OR
FILLING FOR
CINNAMON ROLLS
1 1/2 c  Brown sugar
1 1/2 tb Cinnamon
Mix thoroughly.
GLAZE FOR THE
CINNAMON ROLLS
1 1/2 c  Powdered sugar
1/8 ts Vanilla
1 tb Butter
1 tb Lemon juice
1-2 tb warm water

SWEET YEAST DOUGH Note: All-purpose flour can be substituted for wheat
flour and germ, in roughly the same quantity--then you can skip the
step of combining them in a separate bowl.

Sprinkle the yeast over the warm water in a small bowl, stir, and let
stand until soft, about 5 minutes. Reserve.

In a large bowl, combine eggs, sugar, salt, baking soda, buttermilk,
and butter, and beat till smooth. Stir in reserved yeast. In a
separate bowl, combine the flours and wheat germ. Then add 3 cups of
the dry mixture to the wet ingredients, beating until well blended.
Add 2 more cups of the dry ingredients and beat until the dough just
holds together. Turn out onto a lightly floured board and knead for 1
minute. Let the dough rest for 10 minutes. Knead the dough again,
sprinkling on the remainder of the flour mixture as needed, until
smooth and elastic, about 10 minutes. Place in a greased bowl, turn,
cover with plastic wrap, and let rise in a warm place until about
doubled in bulk, about 60 minutes.

Meanwhile make the FILLING 	Combine all ingredients, reserve

And the GLAZE STICKY PECAN GLAZE Combine the butter, brown sugar and
corn syrup in a bowl and beat till well mixed. Spread evenly over the
bottom of a buttered 10 x 15-inch baking pan. Sprinkle evenly with
the pecans and set aside.

MAKING STICKY PECAN BUNS Punch the risen dough down and turn it out
onto a lightly floured surface. Roll out into a 15x24-inch rectangle
about 1/2-inch thick. Sprinkle the reserved filling over the dough,
gently pressing the mixture into the dough with your fingers.
Beginning with the short end, roll the dough up like a jelly roll.
Slice crosswise into 12 equal pieces. Place the slices, cut side down
and barely touching each other, on top of the glaze in the pan.
Cover, and let rise in a warm place until puffy and almost doubled in
bulk, about 25 minutes. Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F. Bake the
buns until golden brown on top, 25-30 minutes. Remove from the oven
and cool in the pan to set the glaze, about 5 minutes. Invert onto a
serving tray or another baking sheet and allow the glaze to dribble
down the sides. Pull apart and serve warm.

IF YOU WANT CINNAMON ROLLS If you want cinnamon rolls, roll the dough
into the same 15x25-inch rectangle, brush with melted butter and
sprinkle the following filling over it, pressing in lightly with
fingers.

FILLING FOR CINNAMON ROLLS Mix thoroughly. Preheat the oven to 375
degrees F. Beginning with the short end, roll the dough up like a
jelly roll. Slice crosswise into 12 equal pieces. Place the slices,
cut side down and barely touching each other.  Cover, and let rise in
a warm place until puffy and almost doubled in bulk, about 25 minutes.

Bake the buns until golden brown on top, 25-30 minutes. Invert onto a
serving tray or another baking sheet. GLAZE for cinnamon rolls Mix
together until smooth. Drizzle over inverted rolls while warm

