Title: TAGINE OF CHICKEN WITH PRUNES & ALMONDS
Categories: Chicken, Jewish, Passover, Moroccan
Yield: 6 Servings
-JUDI M. PHELPS
2 tb Pareve margarine or
Vegetable oil
1 md Onion; finely chopped
3 1/2 lb Meaty chicken pieces; remove
-skin if desired
1 c  ;water
1    To 3 tsp. ground cinnamon
1/2 ts Ground ginger
1/4    To 1/2 tsp black pepper;
-preferably freshly ground
pn ;salt
10    To 12 oz pitted prunes;
-about 2 cups
1 tb Honey or sugar (optional)
1 c  Whole blanches almonds;
-lightly toasted
In a very large deep skillet or a Dutch oven, over medium-high heat,
heat the margarine or oil (or use a mixture); then saute the onion
until it is tender but not browned. Add the chicken to the skillet
and lightly brown it on all sides.

Mix the water with the cinnamon, ginger, pepper, and salt and pour it
over the browned chicken.  Bring the liquid to a boil. Cover the
skillet tightly, lower the heat, and simmer the chicken for 30
minutes, turning the pieces occasionally.  Add the prunes and honey
(if used) to the skillet, evenly distributing the prunes around the
chicken, and making sure they are covered with liquid.  Cover the
skillet again, and simmer the chicken and prunes together for about
20 minutes, or until both are very tender. If the sauce becomes too
dry and begins to stick to the bottom of the skillet, stir in
additional water as needed.

Use tongs or a slotted spoon to transfer the chicken to a large
serving platter.  Stir about half the almonds into the prune sauce
remaining in the pot; then spoon the sauce mixture over the chicken.
Garnish the top with the remaining almonds.

Note:  To toast the almonds, spread them in a jelly roll or similar
pan and heat then in a 350-degree oven, stirring them occasionally,
for about 10 minutes, or until they are lightly browned.  Or, to
toast them in the Moroccan manner, heat some vegetable oil in a
skillet and saute the almonds in the oil until they are lightly
browned; then remove them with a slotted spoon and drain them on
paper towels.

Shared and MM by Judi M. Phelps. jphelps@shell.portal.com or
jphelps@best.com

