Title: TAMALES DE DULCE (SWEET TAMALES)
Categories: Mexican, Tamales, Posted
Yield: 1 Dozen
2 c  Masa harina
1/2 c  Sugar
1/4 ts Salt
1 1/2 ts Cinnamon
1 1/2 ts Baking powder
1/4 c  Margarine
1/4 c  Lard
1 1/2 c  Chicken stock
1 c  Almonds; sliced or slivered
1 c  Raisins OR blackberries,
-fresh or frozen; sweetened
-with sugar
1 pk Dried corn husks; soaked in
-hot water to soften
Stir together dry ingredients (masa harina, sugar, salt, cinnamon and
baking powder).

Cream margarine and lard until fluffy. Gradually beat masa harina
mixture and broth into the lard. Beat well for about 5 minutes. (A
small test ball of the dough should rise in cold water.) Stir almonds
into dough. If using raisins, mix into the dough. If using
blackberries, reserve and use as a center filling.

Place 6 to 8 cups of water and a coin into the bottom of the steamer.
Shake excess water from the softened corn husks. Line steamer with
corn husks. Spread dough (approximately 2 tablespoons) evenly on the
center of the remaining husks. If using blackberries, place a
spoonful of berries in center of dough. Roll and turn up. If
necessary, roll in an additional husk, or tie with a piece of string
to secure. Pack tamales into steamer as they are made. Surround with
corn husks.

Top with terry toweling and secure lid. Bring to a boil over high
heat. Reduce to medium and steam for 1-1/2 to 2 hours. Remember to
listen for the coin; it will let you "hear" the water level. When the
coin becomes silent, the water level is too low and you must add more.

To reheat, place in greased frying pan over medium-low and heat
through, turning occasionally. If preferred, the tamales may be
wrapped in foil and reheated in a 350 degree oven 20 to 30 minutes.
Use foil method and add an additional 15 minutes to reheat. Tamales
freeze well.

This makes about a dozen small tamales.

NOTE: These are the sweet tamales that I have personally had while on
trips into Mexico, and they are soo-o-oh good, but there are other
recipes containing fruits, i.e., pineapple - (in my experience, these
are usually sickening sweet but that's my humble opinion).

From Mary Ann Young's personal collection <maryann4@prolog.net>

