Title: TAMALES NORTENOS 2 OF 2
Categories: Pork, Beef, Mexican
Yield: 6 Servings  ~----THE MASA====================
4 c  masa harina
4 c  lukewarm water
4 ts Wyler's granulated chicken
boullion
:
2 ts baking powder
2 ts salt
1 1/2 c  lard or vegetable
shortening
:

MASA Combine masa, baking powder and salt in a bowl. Dissolve the
boullion in the lukewarm water to make a broth. Mix the broth into
the masa a little at a time, working with your fingers to make a
moist dough.

In a small bowl, beat lard or shortening until fluffy, add to masa
and beat until masa has a spongy texture.

The Tamales

Remove a soaked corn husk from the water and shake to remove excess
water. Start with the largest husks because they will be easier to
roll. If you end up with a lot of small husks, you can lay two
together, overlapping about 1/2" but this is a little trickier and
may take some practice. Lay the husk flat on a plate and spread about
1 1/2 to 2 tablespoons (depending on the size of the husk) of masa in
the center. Don't use too much! The easiest way to spread the masa is
to spoon it onto the husk and spread it with your fingers. If the
masa is sticky, wet your hands.

Add about 1 tablespoon of meat filling on top of the masa. Again,
don't use too much.

Now comes the tricky part. Roll the corn husk so that the filling is
enclosed in the masa. Don't worry if the filling is not completely
surrounded with masa. When the masa cooks it will become firm and the
tamale will be fine. Fold over each end. If the husks are very thick,
you may find it difficult to fold the large end and get it to stay.
If this is the case, don't worry about folding the large end and put
that end up when you put the tamales into the steamer.

Load the tamales into a steamer standing them up vertically. I use a
large pot with a steamer basket in the bottom. When all the tamales
are rolled, and the steamer is full, cover with a damp cloth and
steam until the tamales are done, about 2 to 3 hours. During steaming
it is very important to keep the water at a low boil. Also, DO NOT
let the steamer boil out of water.

TIP: Place a coin, a penny works good, in the bottom of the steamer
with the water. You can tell when the water is boiling because you
can hear the coin rattling around. If the coin stops rattling, the
water has boiled away and you should add more.

After about 2 hours, you may want to pull out a tamale and sample it.
Let it cool for a few minutes and then unroll the husk. The tamale
should be soft and firm and not mushy.

: Garry Howard The tamale dough, or masa, is made from
Recipe By
masa harina, a corn flour that is also

