Title: TANDOORI DUCK & LENTILS
Categories: Indian, Poultry, Ceideburg
Yield: 4 Servings
Stephen Ceideburg
4 lb To 5 lb. duck, washed and
-dried
1 c  Low-fat yogurt
3    Cloves garlic, minced
1 tb Minced, peeled ginger root
1 tb Ground cumin
1 tb Paprika
1 1/2 ts Salt
1 ts Ground cardamom
1/4 ts Cayenne pepper
2 ts Vegetable oil
1 md Onion, chopped
1 c  Red lentils
1/2 ts Turmeric
1/4 ts Freshly ground black pepper
The yogurt marinade in this dish locks in moisture and lends a
complementary spicy flavor. The duck is skinned before cooking to
reduce fat.

With a sharp knife or poultry shears, remove backbone and wing tips
from duck and cut the duck into 4 serving pieces. Cut away the skin
and fat. In a shallow, non aluminum dish, mix together yogurt,
garlic, ginger, cumin, paprika, 1 tsp. salt, cardamom and cayenne
pepper.

Add the duck pieces, turning to coat well and marinate, covered, in
the refrigerator for at least 8 hours or up to 24 hours, turning
occasionally.

About 1/2 hour before serving, in a medium-sized saucepan, heat oil
over medium heat. Add onions and cook for 6 to 8 minutes, or until
translucent and lightly browned. Rinse lentils well and add them to
the saucepan with turmeric, remaining 1/2 tsp. salt, black pepper and
2 1/2 cups water. Bring to a boil, reduce heat to low and simmer
uncovered, stirring occasionally, for 15 to 20 minutes, or just until
lentils are tender. Cover and set aside.

Meanwhile, prepare a charcoal grill or preheat the broiler. Remove
the duck from the marinade (reserve marinade) and grill on a lightly
oiled rack or broil on a rack set over a foil-lined baking sheet.
Grill or broil for 5 to 7 minutes on one side, or until browned.
Turn, baste once with reserved marinade and discard marinade. Cook 8
to 10 minutes longer, or until juices run clear when pierced with a
fork. just before serving, briefly reheat the lentils and serve with
the duck.

451 CALORIES PER SERVING: 44 G PROTEIN, 15 G FAT, 35 G CARBOHYDRATE;
323 MG SODIUM; 105 MG CHOLESTEROL.

From "Eating Well", Jan/Feb, 1992.

