Title: TEN FOODS YOU SHOULD NEVER EAT
Categories: Info/tips, Ceideburg 2
Yield: 1 Servings
1    Text Only
As an eating machine I'm driven far more by taste than by nutritional
considerations. After all, one of my all time favorite dishes is Tung
Po Pork, a Chinese concoction that consists mainly of pork fat and
skin that is stewed in spices then steamed for several hours. That's
why I was surprised to find myself interested in a flyer I got from
The Nutrition Action Healthletter. Maybe it was the title that caught
my interest. Here are some excerpts from the flyer. 1. Quaker Oats
100% Natural Cereal. This overrated granola cereal's ten g of fat per
half cup serving make it high in fat compared to other cereals. And,
despite the crunch, it's not high in fiber.  A much better choice
would be a low fat, whole-grain cereal like Kellogg Nutri-Grain
Wheat, Post Grape-Nuts, General Mills Wheaties, or Nabisco Shredded
Wheat. 2. Contadina Alfredo Sauce. A typical four ounce serving
contains 34 grams of fat++20 of them artery-clogging saturated fat.
That's like drowning your pasta in more than a third of a stick of
butter If you want a good bottled pasta sauce, try Enrico's Spaghetti
Sauce No Salt Added, Tree of Life, or Colavita. 3. Nissin Chicken Cup
O' Noodles. It will give you a surprisingly strong shot of fat (about
3 teaspoons' worth) and almost as much sodium (1,700 mg) as you
should ideally eat in a whole day.  Try The Spice Hunter Quick and
Natural Soups instead. A serving averages just half a teaspoon of fat
and 200 mg of sodium++a much healthier alternative. 4. Taco Bell's
Taco Salad with Shell. With the shell, this platter of beef, cheese,
and beans has 14 teaspoons of fat, more than 5 teaspoons of saturated
fat, and 905 calories. That's almost all the fat and saturated fat an
adult should eat in an entire day. If you're in the mood for a fast
food salad, head to McDonald's. Its Chunky Chicken Salad contains a
single teaspoon of fat and 1/4 teaspoon of saturated fat. 5. Swanson
Great Starts Scrambled Eggs & Sausage with Hash Browns. This measly 6
1/2-ounce breakfast will slap you with more than half the fat you
should eat in a day.  And Swanson won't even say how much saturated
fat and cholesterol it contains. You'd be better off skipping
breakfast entirely. For a healthier microwave morning, have a Healthy
Choice English Muffin Breakfast.  At just one teaspoon of fat per
serving and 15 to 20 mg of cholesterol (it contains egg whites, not
yolks), it's a far "healthier" choice. 6. Oscar Mayer Lunchables. It
would be hard to invent a worse food than these combos of heavily
processed meat, artery-clogging cheese, and mostly white-flour
crackers. The line averages 5 1/2 teaspoons of fat (that's 55 percent
of calories) and 1,517 mg of sodium. You'd get less fat and salt from
two slices of Pizza Hut's Pepperoni Pan Pizza. 7. Haagen-Dazs Ice
Cream.  Gourmet ice creams like Haagen-Dazs and Ben & Jerry's are
loaded with grease. A one-cup serving has as much artery-clogging
saturated fat as 1/4 cup of lard.  Choose an ice milk like Breyers
Light and you'll cut the fat by 75 percent. Buy Sealtest Free or
Edy's or Dreyer's Fat Free and you'll get rid of almost all the fat.
8. Campbell Chunky Soups. They're brimming with salt. An average
9-ounce serving contains 975 mg of sodium. That's half your quota for
an entire day. If you're looking for more than salty water, check out
Pritikin Soups. A cup has 160 mg of sodium and less than one gram of
fat. That's a bit less fat-and far less sodium than you'll find in
Campbell's Healthy Request or ConAgra's Healthy Choice Soups. 9.
Swanson Hungry Man Turkey Pot Pie. If you think that turkey products
are always lower in fat than foods made with beef or pork, you're
wrong. Crammed into a single pie are 650 calories, 36 grams of fat,
and 1,470 mg of sodium. That makes it worse than Swanson's Hungry Man
Beef Pot Pie. 10. Stouffer's Entrees. Despite their popularity,
Stouffer's en- trees get a greater percent of their calories from tat
(440 percent than any other major line of frozen dinners or entrees.
Not one of Stouffer's 52 varieties meets our criteria for a "healthy"
frozen meal. If you want low-sodium, low-fat frozen meals, try Tyson
Healthy Portions, Healthy Choice Dinners, or Le Menu New American
Healthy. From the Nutrition Action Healthletter, 1875 Connecticut
Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20009. The only vegetables we found in an
entire Banquet Vegetable Pie with Chicken were twelve peas, 1/11 of a
carrot, and 1/12 of a potato. And in a Lean Cuisine Glazed Chicken
with Vegetable Rice, you'll find just 1/3 of a mushroom, 1/2 ounce of
green beans, and a teaspoon of onions. That's it for vegetables! Need
more whole grains in your diet? Don't count on Wheatsworth Stone
Ground Wheat Crackers, with less than half a tablespoon of whole-
wheat flour in four crackers. And Prego's "made with Fresh Mushrooms"
Spaghetti Sauce has only about half a mushroom per serving ... that's
three mushrooms in the whole jar! This newsletter appears to be a
culinary Consumer's Guide with products reviewed by brand name along
with "healthy" recipes (they cite Indian, Mexican and Asian recipes)
and general tips for eating "healthy". The thing I got was a special
promo++ten months of the newsletter for ten bucks or 17 bucks for 20
issues. As a bonus you get a couple of charts. One is called
"Chemical Cuisine" and lists various food additives along with their
relative safety. The other is a "Nutritional Scoreboard" that lists
foods along with their relative nutritional values. I'm going to
subscribe++for ten bucks how far wrong could I go? Oh yeah++if you
don't like the publication, you can cancel at any time and get a
complete refund. If'n you're interested, the subscription address is:
CSPI/Nutrition Action Healthletter, P.O. Box 96611, Washington, D.C.
20077-7212 Posted by Stephen Ceideberg; August 18 1993.

