Title: TERIYAKI TURKEY JERKY
Categories: Poultry, Dehydrating, Preserving
Yield: 1 Recipe
MMMMM-----------------NORMA WRENN - MAKES 1/2 LB----------------------
1 lb Boned, skinned turkey breast
Or turkey tenderloins
-trimmed of all fat and
-connective tissue
1/4 ts Onion powder
1/4 ts Garlic powder
1/2 c  -water
1/4 c  Reduced-sodium soy sauce
2 ts Worcestershire
2 tb Firmly packed brown sugar
1 ts Pepper
1/2 ts Liquid smoke
Vegetable cooking spray
Freeze turkey until firm but not hard; then cut into 1/8- to
1/4-inch-thick slices.

In a medium-size glass, stoneware, plastic or stainless steel bowl,
combine onion powder, garlic powder, water soy sauce, Worcestershire,
sugar, pepper, and liquid smoke.  Stir to dissolve seasonings. Add
turkey and mix until all surfaces are thoroughly coated. Cover
tightly and refrigerate for at least 6 hours or until next day,
stirring occasionally; recover tightly after stirring.

Drying the jerky:  Depending on the drying method you're using,
evenly coat dehydrator racks or metal racks with cooking spray; if
oven drying, place racks over rimmed baking pans.

Lift turkey from bowl, shaking off any excess liquid. Arrange strips
close together, but not overlapping, on racks.

Dehydrator drying:  Arrange trays according to manufacture's
directions and dry at 140-degrees until a piece of jerky cracks and
breaks when bent (4-1/2 to 6 hours; let jerky cool for 5 minutes
before testing).

Oven drying:  Set oven to 140 to 200 degrees (the lower, the
better--the lowest your oven allows). Place racks at least 4 inches
away from (above or below) heat source.  Prop oven door open by about
2 inches. Dry until a piece of jerky cracks and breaks when bent (4
to 6 hours; let jerky cool for 5 minutes before testing).

Pat off any beads of oil from jerky.  Let jerky cool completely on
racks; remove from racks, place ina rigid freezer container, and
freeze for 72 hours. Then store in airtight, insectproof containers
in a cool, dry place; or freeze or refrigerate.

Storage time:  Up to 3 weeks at room temperature; up to 4 months in
refrigerator; up to 8 months in freezer.

Per ounce:  85 calories; 15 g protein; 5 g carbohydrates; 0 g fat; 35
mg cholesterol; 557 mg sodium

Source: Sunset Home Canning

