Title: THAI NOODLES (2)
Categories: Thai, Pasta
Yield: 6 Servings
1/2 lb Dried rice noodles 1/8" wide
-Warm water
1/2 lb Shrimp, chicken or pork
-OR- a combination
1/4 c  Fish sauce
1/4 c  Granulated sugar; PLUS:
2 tb Granulated sugar
1/4 c  White vinegar: PLUS:
2 tb White vinegar
1 ts Paprika; -OR-
1 tb -Tomato paste -OR-
1 tb -Catsup (all are optional)
4    Green onions
1/2 c  Vegetable oil
1 ts Finely chopped garlic
2    Eggs
3/4 lb Bean sprouts
2 tb Ground roasted chilies
3/4 c  Ground roasted peanuts
-- (unsalted)
Lime wedges
1.  Soak the noodles for 20-25 minutes in enough warm water to cover
them. They should be flexible and soft, but not so soft that they can
be mashed easily with the fingers. Later cooking in liquid will
soften them more. Drain them thoroughly in a colander while preparing
the other ingredients. Traditionally they are left in full-length
strands, but you may cut them into 8-inch lengths if you find it
easier to stir-fry them that way.

2.  Peel and devein the shrimp, leaving the tails intact, or slice the
chicken or pork across the grain into strips not more than 1/8 inch
thick and 1 to 2 inches long.

3.  Mix the fish sauce, sugar, vinegar, and optional paprika, tomato
paste, or catsup in a bowl, and stir until the sugar is dissolved.
Set the mixture aside. Slice the green onions, both white and green
parts, diagonally into pieces 1 1/2 inches long and 1/4 inch thick.
Set aside.

4.  Heat a wok, add the oil, and swirl it over the surface of the
pan. Add the garlic and stir-fry until light golden. Add the meat and
stir-fry until the pink color disappears completely. If you are using
shrimp, stir-fry until they turn pink.  Add the noodles and toss
lightly to coat them with oil and to distribute the meat and garlic.

5.  Add the liquid from Step 3 and bring it to a boil rapidly, gently
folding the noodles without breaking them. Reduce the heat to medium
and boil the mixture, folding frequently, until the noodles have
absorbed the liquid.

6.  Using a wok scoop or a stiff spatula, lift the noodles gently
from one side of the wok.  Pour a little oil along the side of the
wok, then break 1 egg and slip it into the oil. Break the yolk, and
cover the egg with the noodles immediately.  Repeat this on the
opposite side of the wok with the remaining egg. Allow the eggs to
cook undisturbed, over moderate heat, until they are set and almost
dry. Additional oil may be added if the eggs or the noodles begin to
stick to the wok.

7.  When the eggs are set and almost dry, fold them gently but
rapidly into the noodles.  Try not to break the noodles, which will
be soft and fragile at this point. An effective way is to insert the
scoop under the eggs, lift it through, and fold the mixture over.
Continue the lifting and folding motion until the eggs are broken up
and well distributed.

8.  Add the bean sprouts and sliced green onions and toss the entire
mixture quickly and gently, still avoiding breaking the noodles. Cook
for about 2 minutes, or until the bean sprouts and green onions are
crisp-tender.

9.  Place the mixture on a large warm platter. Sprinkle the ground
chilies and peanuts over the top and squeeze lime juice over that, or
serve these garnishes separately, for each diner to add according to
taste.

Variation: ========== Omit the shrimp, pork, or chicken from the list
of ingredients, and ignore any instructions for them. Substitute 1/2
pound tofu and 1/4 pound dried shrimp. Put the tofu on a triple layer
of paper towels, cover it with another triple layer, put a plate on
top of that, and put a 2-pound weight, e.g. a can of tomatoes, on top
of the plate. Let stand for 20 to 30 minutes to press out the excess
water. Put the dried shrimp in a sieve, rinse them quickly under hot
running water, and set them aside to drain. After the tofu has been
pressed, slice it into 1/4-inch cubes.  Add the tofu and shrimp in
Step 5 of the instructions and proceed with the main recipe. Note: in
Thailand, dried shrimp are available in a smaller size than is
generally available in the United States. If you would like to
simulate that, chop the dried shrimp very coarsely after they have
been rinsed.

(Yield:  6-8 servings)

Source: Thai Home-Cooking

From:  mike_johnston.trwgbr@qmail4.nba.trw.com (Michael L. Johnston)

