Title: THAI MINI SPRING ROLLS
Categories: Appetizers, Thai
Yield: 8 Servings
2 oz Bean thread noodles
- (MUNG bean)
1/4 c  Dried tree ears; -=OR=-
6    -Dried Chinese blk mushrooms
1/2 ts Whole black peppercorns
3    Garlic cloves
1 tb Fresh coriander roots
- (coarsely chopped)
3/4 lb Fresh ground pork
1/4 lb Shrimp
-shelled, deveined & chopped
-=OR=-
1/4 lb -Fresh crab meat, flaked
1 tb Thai fish sauce
2 ts Sugar
4    Shallots; finely chopped
1    Carrot; peeled, grated
1/4 lb Bean sprouts; tails removed
8    12-inch rice-paper rounds
Peanut oil for deep-frying
Crisp lettuce leaves
- (as an accompaniment)
Fresh mint leaves
- (as an accompaniment)
MMMMM--------------------THAI SPRING ROLL DIP-------------------------
1/4 c  Sugar
1/4 c  Water
1/2 c  Red wine vinegar
2 tb Fish sauce
1/4 ts Red chile flakes
2 tb Chopped coriander leaves
-(fresh)
2 tb Chopped peanuts
IN 2 SEPARATE MEDIUM BOWLS, soak bean thread noodles and tree ears in
warm water until soft and pliable (about 15 minutes). Drain the
noodles and cut into 1-inch lengths; set aside. Drain and rinse off
sand from tree ears. Pinch off and discard hard centers; coarsely
chop and set aside. Pound peppercorns, garlic and coriander roots
into a coarse paste, or chopped together in a spice mill. Combine
pork, shrimp or crab, fish sauce, peppercorn mixture, and 1 teaspoon
of the sugar. Add shallots, carrots, bean sprouts, and the reserved
bean thread noodles and tree ears; mix together thoroughly. Dissolve
remaining sugar with 1 cup water in a bowl. With kitchen shears, cut
rice paper into quarters. Lay one sheet of rice paper with the curved
edge nearest to you, on a flat surface. Brush thoroughly with water.
Let it sit until it softens into a thin flexible film (about 1
minute). Mold 1 tablespoon of pork mixture into 1-inch wide by 2-inch
long cylinder and put it near the curved edge of rice paper. Fold
bottom of rice paper over filling. Fold left and right sides over
each end to enclose filling. Continue rolling until completely
sealed. Repeat with remaining filling. Preheat wok until hot. Add
enough oil to a depth of 3-inches. Heat to 325F. Add a few rolls and
deep-fry for 10 seconds. Immediately increase to high heat or 375F
and deep-fry until crisp and golden brown (about 6 minutes). Remove
and drain. Serve wrapped in a lettuce leaf with a mint leaf. Dip into
Thai Spring Roll Dip.

THAI SPRING ROLL DIP: Combine sugar, water and vinegar in a saucepan
over medium-high heat; boil until reduced to 3/4 cup of liquid.
Remove from heat and stir in the fish sauce and chile flakes. When
cooled, transfer to a dipping saucer and mix in coriander and
peanuts. Makes about 24 rolls with sauce.

