Title: THAI CHICKEN PIZZA
Categories: Ethnic, Main dishes, Oriental, Poultry, Thai
Yield: 2 Servings
Spicy Peanut Sauce:
1/2 c  Peanut butter
1/2 c  Hoisin sauce
1 tb Honey
2 ts Red wine vinegar
2 ts Ginger -- minced
2 tb Roasted sesame oil
2 ts Soy sauce
1 ts Vietnamese chili sauce -- or
Dried chili flake
1 tb Oyster sauce
2 tb Water
Thai Chicken Pieces:
1 tb Oilive oil
10 oz Chicken breasts -- boned and
Skinned
Cut into 3/4" cubes
For the Pizza:
1    Recipe basic pizza dough
Cornmeal, semolina or flour
For handling
2 c  Mozzarella cheese --
Shredded
4    Scallions -- slivered
Diagonally
Oriental style
1/2 c  White bean sprouts
1/4 c  Shredded carrot
2 tb Roasted peanuts -- chopped
2 tb Cilantro -- chopped, fresh
To make spicy peanut sauce:  Combine sauce ingredients in a small pan
over medium heat.  Bring the sauce to a boil; boil gently for one
minute. Divide into two portions for use on chicken and pizza; set
aside.

To make Thai chicken:  Cook the chicken in olive oil over medium-high
heat, stirring, until just cooked 5 to 6 minutes. Do not overcook.
Set aside in the refrigerator until chilled through. Once chilled,
coat the chicken with 1/4 cup Spicy Peanut Sauce.  Set aside in the
refrigerator.

To make the pizza:  Place pizza  stone in the center of the oven and
preheat to 500 degreesF for one hour before cooking the pizzas.

Use a large spoon to spread 1/4 cup spicy peanut sauce evenly over the
surface of the prepared dough within the rim. Cover the sauce with
3/4 cup shredded mozzarella.

Distribute half the chicken pieces evenly over the cheese followed by
half the green onions, bean sprouts and carrots, respectively.
Sprinkle an additional 1/4 cup shredded mozzarella over the other
other toppings and top the pizza with 1 tbs. chopped roasted peanuts.

Transfer the pizza to the oven; bake until the crust is crisp and
golden and the cheese at the center is bubbly, 9 to 10 minutes. When
cooked through, carefully remove the pizza from the oven. Sprinkle 1
tablespoon chopped fresh cilantro over the hot, cheese surface. Slice
and serve. Repeat with remaining ingredients for a second pizza.

: California Pizza Kitchen Restaurant
Recipe By

Date: Mon, 15 Jul 1996 14:00:51
From: Hp_walls@woco.Ohio.Gov
~0400 (

