Title: THANKSGIVING DAY TOFU
Categories: Vegetarian, Holiday
Yield: 4 Servings
1 1/2 lb Tofu
2 tb Arrowroot
3 tb Vogue Vegy Base
3/4 ts Sea salt
1/4 ts White pepper
1 1/2 ts Agar flakes; -=OR=-
1 ts -Agar powder
2 tb Barley malt syrup
2 tb Water
MMMMM-----------------------SAGE DRESSING----------------------------
1/2 c  Finely diced onions
1/2 c  Finely diced celery
1/2 c  Finely diced carrots
2    Garlic cloves; minced
2 tb Unrefined corn oil
1/2 ts Ground sage
1/4 ts Dried basil
3 tb Vogue Vegy Base
1 ts Sea salt
1/8 ts Black pepper
1 c  Water
2 c  Cubed dry whole wheat bread
This is a superb substitute for the traditional Thanksgiving turkey.
It's also good for other times of the year! It's really the dressing
that carries this dish. The corn oil gives it that wonderful buttery
taste that poultry dressing usually has.

Wash the tofu, pat it dry, and cut it into small pieces. Put the tofu,
arrowroot, soup base, salt, pepper, and agar flakes in a food
processor and blend to a smooth paste. Oil and flour the loaf pan (or
line it with baking liner paper after oiling).  Spread a layer of
tofu paste inside the pan, lining the bottom and all four sides.
(Spread only a thin layer on the ends.)  Use all but about 1 cup of
the paste.

Firmly but gently press the dressing into the pan, on top of the tofu
paste "liner".  Try to avoid displacing the tofu. Cover the dressing
with the remaining tofu, carefully sealing the edges.  Cover the pan
with foil, making certain the foil doesn't come in contact with the
tofu. (The tofu will eat into the foil.)

Bake in a preheated oven at 350 F for 30 to 40 minutes. Then remove
the foil cover, glaze the top of the loaf with the dissolved barley
malt syrup, turn the oven up to 450 F, and continue baking for 10
minutes. Remove from oven and allow the loaf to cool for about 10
minutes. Unmold, slice, and serve hot with a sauce of your choice.

SAGE DRESSING:  Saute onions, celery, carrots, and garlic in oil for 5
minutes.  Add the sage, basil, soup base, salt and pepper, and
continue cooking 5 minutes longer.

Add the water and bring to a simmer.  Stir in the bread crumbs and
cook for a few minutes.  Then remove from heat.

Source: Friendly Foods - by Brother Ron Pickarski, O.F.M. ISBN:
0-89815-377-8 Typed by Karen Mintzias

