Title: THE NEW CHOCOLATE DECADENCE
Categories: Cakes, Chocolate, Desserts, Low-fat/low
Yield: 12 Servings
5 oz Semisweet chocolate --
Chopped fine
1 lg Egg
1 lg Egg -- separated
1 ts Vanilla extract
1 lg Egg white
1/8 ts Cream of tartar
1/2 c  Unsweetened cocoa powder
1 1/2 ts Unsweetened cocoa powder
2 tb Flour
2/3 c  Granulated sugar
1/4 c  Granulated sugar
3/4 c  Lowfat 1% milk
Boiling water
SAUCE------
10 oz Raspberries, frozen -- in
Light syrup
GARNISH------
Confectioner's sugar
Fresh raspberries
1.  Position rack in lower third of oven.  Heat to 350F. Coat 8-inch
round cake pan with veg. cooking spray and line bottom with parchment
paper.

2.  Place chocolate in large bowl.  Combine 1 whole egg, 1 egg yolk,
and vanilla in bowl.  Combine remaining 2 egg whites and cr. of
tartar in mixer bowl.  Set 3 bowls aside.

3.  Combine cocoa, flour, and 2/3 cup sugar in sacuepan. Whisk in
enough milk to form smooth paste; stir in remaining milk. cook,
stirring constantly, over medium heat until brginning yo simmer;
simmer very gently, stirring, 1 1/2 min.  Pour immediately over
chopped chocolate; stir until smooth.  Whisk in yolk mix. Set aside.

4.  Beat whites and cr of tartar at med. speed to soft peaks. At hi
speed, gradually beat in remaining 1/4 cup sugar until stiff but not
dry. Fold one quarter of egg whites intochocolate mix, then fold
remaining whites. Pour into prepared pan.

5.  Place cake pan in baking pan and place on oven rack. Pour enough
boiling water into larger pan to come about halfway up sides of cake
pan. Bake 30 minutes, until top springs back when lightly touched.
(Cake will be moist).

6.  Remove cake pan from water.  Cool on wire rack. Refrig for 24
hours.

7.  Make sauce:  process raspberries and their syrup in blender until
smooth. Strain thru seive to remove seeds. Makes 1 cup.

8.  To serve, run thin knife or metal spatula around sides of pan to
loosed. Place a piece of waxed paper on top of torte. Invert onto
waxed paper; remove pan and parchment, then invert again onto plate.
Sprinkle with confectioners' sugar. Cut cake into wedges with dental
floss or sharp knife dipped in hot water.  Serve with rasp. sauce.

: Ladies' Home Journal - 1/95
Recipe By

