Title: THE MANY FLAVORS OF CREME BRULEE (SWEET)
Categories: Desserts, Fruits, Candies, Nuts
Yield: 5 Servings
*****  NONE  *****
CHOCOLATE CREME BRULEE Combine 4 (1 oz.) squares of semisweet
chocolate and 1/2 cup whipping cream from basic recipe in a small
heavy saucepan and cook over low heat. Stir constantly until the
chocolate melts. Add the remaining 1 1/2 cups whipping cream and
reduce the vanilla to 1 teaspoon. Proceed with instructions for the
basic recipe, baking for 55 minutes. To make a CHOCOLATE-RASPBERRY
version, place 8 to 10 fresh raspberries in each baking dish, add the
custard and increase baking time to 1 hour and 5 minutes.

BERRY CREME BRULEE Place 8 to 10 fresh blackberries or raspberries in
each baking dish and pour custard mixture in to cover. Proceed as
directed in basic recipe, baking for
45    minutes.

COFFEE CREME BRULEE Combine 1 1/2 teaspoons instant coffee granules
and 1/4 cup whipping cream from the basic recipe. Cook over medium
heat, stirring constantly, about 2 minutes or until coffee dissolves.
Add remaining 1 3/4 cups whipping cream and reduce the vanilla to 1
teaspoon. Proceed with basic recipe, baking 55 minutes.

DOUBLE RASPBERRY CREME BRULEE Reduce vanilla to 1 teaspoon; add 1
additional egg yolk and 1 1/2 tablespoons raspberry liqueur to custard
mixture. Place 8 to 10 fresh raspberries in each baking dish; pour
custard mixture over berries. Proceed with basic recipe, baking 55
minutes.

ALMOND CREME BRULEE Reduce vanilla to 1 teaspoon; add 1 additional egg
yolk, 2 tablespoons almond liqueur and 1/4 cup chopped toasted
almonds to custard mixture. Proceed with basic recipe, baking 1 hour.

ORANGE CREME BRULEE Reduce vanilla to 1 teaspoon and add 1 additional
egg yolk, 2 tablespoons grated orange rind and 2 tablespoons orange
liqueur to custard mixture. Proceed with basic recipe, baking 1 hour.

PEPPERMINT CREME BRULEE Reduce vanilla to 1 tesapoon, add 1
additional egg yolk and 3 tablespoons peppermint schnapps. Proceed as
directed in basic recipe, baking 50 minutes. Substitute 5 hard
peppermint candies, crushed, for brown sugar and broil as directed.

WHITE CHOCOLATE-MACADAMIA NUT CREME BRULEE Combine 4 ounces white
chocolate and 1/2 cup whipping cream from the basic recipe in a small
heavy saucepan; cook over low heat, stirring constantly until
chocolate melts. Add remaining 1 1/2 cups whipping cream; reduce
vanilla to 1 teaspoon. Proceed with basic recipe. Place 1 tablespoon
toasted, chopped macadamia nuts in each dish and pour in custard to
cover. Bake as directed for
1    hour and 10 minutes.

GINGER CREME BRULEE Reduce vanilla to 1 teaspoon and add 2 tablespoons
grated fresh ginger to custard mixture. Proceed as directed in the
basic recipe, baking for 1 hour and five minutes.

: Southern Living  (12-95)
Recipe By

