Title: THE BORDER GRILL'S CINCO DE MAYO SPLASH!
Categories: Alcohol, Appetizers, Beverages, Dips, Menu
E  *****
Yield: 1 Servings

Puree strawberries in blender; place puree in large punch bowl.
Strain, if desired, to remove seeds. Dissolve gelatin in boiling
water; stir in lemonade concentrate. Add mixture to punch bowl. Add
cranberry cocktail and cold water.  Slowly add ginger ale.

It's May 5, it's a Friday night, and so why not join our neighbors to
the South in celebrating independence? We're going to make this easy
on you. Make the best guacamole by mixing the following ingredients:

3 ripe Haas avocados, peeled and mashed 1 small red onion, peeled and
diced 1-2 jalapenos, chopped finely (seeds optional) 1-2 bunches
cilantro leaves, washed, dried and roughly chopped 2 limes, juiced
salt and freshly ground pepper

And whip up a sensational, easy salsa by blending:

4 ripe Roma tomatoes, cored and chopped roughly 2 serrano chiles,
chopped, seeds optional
1/2    small onion, chopped juice of 1 lime
1    teaspoon salt or to taste freshly ground pepper

Have on hand your favorite chips and a few old Los Lobos CD's. Begin
enjoying the above while you mix these delightful margaritas:

(Serves 1)

1    lime, cut into 5 slices margarita or kosher salt
2    ounces anejo tequila 1 ounce orange liqueur, such as
Triple Sec 1 tablespoon freshly squeezed lemon juice
1/2    coffee cup ice cubes

Arrange 3 lime slices on a small plate and cover another plate with
the salt to a depth of 1/4 inch. Place a martini glass upside down on
the limes and press and turn to dampen. Then dip in the salt to coat
the rim.

Combine the tequila, orange liqueur, lemon juice and ice in a blender.
Blend at high speed until smooth. Pour into the prepared glass,
garnish with the remaining lime slices and serve.

Note:

To make 8 margaritas, mix 2 cups tequila, 1 cup Triple Sec and 1/2 cup
freshly squeezed lemon juice. Prepare in 3 batches; shake or blend a
third of the mix with about 1 coffee cup ice for each batch.

Editor's note: The Border Grill is Milliken's & Feniger's wildly
wonderful restaurant that celebrates the flavors of Mexico. Located
at 1445 4th Street in Santa Monica, CA, many of the recipes that have
made this restaurant so popular appear in the owners' latest book
Mesa Mexicana. For those living in the Los Angeles area, tune into
Mary Sue & Susan's new hit show "Good Food" on KCRW (89.9 FM),
Fridays at 2:00pm.

: by Mary Sue Milliken and Susan Feniger
Recipe By

Date:
From:

