Title: THE WORLDS BEST LASAGNA
Categories: Pasta
Yield: 12 Servings
MEAT SAUCE:
2 lb Lean ground beef
2 x  Medium onions, finely choppe
3 x  Stalks celery, chopped
5 x  Cloves garlic, minced
28 oz Tomato sauce
1 c  Red table wine
1 lb Hot Italian sausage
4 oz Mushrooms, finely chopped
1 md Green pepper, chopped
5 1/2 oz Tomato paste
56 oz Stewed tomatoes
Salt and pepper to taste
1 ts Ea Basil, Sage, Oregano,
Rosemary, tarragon,
1 tb Coriander, crushed
1/2 ts Ea Thyme, Cayenne pepper
1    Bay leaf
1 ts Anis seeds,crushed
1 ts Celery seeds crushed
1 ts Sugar
FILLING:
4 x  Large eggs, beaten
16 oz Quark or low fat cottage
Cheese, drained
1/2 ts Pepper
1 lb Spinash
1 lb Low fat mozzarella cheese,
Sliced
15 x  Lasagna noodles, cooked
1/2 lb Grated low fat Swiss cheese,
Gruy=8Are or Emmanthal
MEAT SAUCE:  Brown the lean ground beef and the Italian sausage in a
large heavy frypan. Mash well to have a fine, smooth sauce. Pour off
all the fat. Transfer to a large kettle. Add some oil to the frypan
and saut=82 the vegetables until limp but not brown. Transfer to the
kettle. Add the tomato paste, tomato sauce and crushed Italian
tomatoes to the kettle with the wine, herbs and spices. Simmer for 1
hour. Taste and adjust seasoning. Add sugar if necessary. Comtinue
simmering for 3 hours or longer. FILLING: Thoroughly wash spinach.
Put in a double boiler and steam spinach until cooked but not
overcooked. Drain and chop. Put into a medium bowl and add Quark or
low fat cottage cheese. Mix in 4 large eggs. Add some salt and pepper
if desired. Set aside. Grate Swiss cheese and set aside. Slice
mozzarella and set aside. For a lasagna pan of 10 x 14 x 2 inches you
need 15 lasagna noodles. Cook noodles in rapidle boiling salted water
until just tender. Rinse under running water and set aside. TO
ASSEMBLE: In the bottom of a lasagna pan 10 x 14 x 2 in. spoon a
layer of sauce to coat the bottom. Lay down a row of noodles. Cover
with some of the spinach mixture. Lay a row of noodles crosswise.
Cover with some of the Swiss cheese. Lay another row of noodles
lengthwise. Cover with another layer of sauce. Repeat layering
process until dish is full. Cover everything with a layer of
mozzarella cheese and bake in an oven set at 350'F. until top is
melted and lasagna is heated through. *** This sauce is mild, if you
want more spice add some chili peppers with caution. *** Serve with a
fresh salad and some fresh French or Italian crusty bread. Enjoy.

