Title: THE GREAT GLUTEN TURKEY~ PART TWO
Categories: Vegetarian
Yield: 10 Servings  continued from part one

Place the "turkey" in a preheated 350 degree oven and bake for 1 1/4
to 1 1/2 hours, basting every 15 minutes with the wine-margarine
mixture and the juces in the pan. If it brown too much, cover loosly
with aluminum foil. Carv as you would with a regular roast and
accompany with stuffing. LIGHT YEAST FLAVORING POWDER: Pulverize all
ingredients in a blender until powdered.  Store in a jar in a cool
place. GREAT GLUTEN DRESSING: Melt the margarine.  Saute the onion,
celery, and mushrooms. Combine with the remaining ingredients,
moistening with stock as necessary. GRAVET FOR MOCK TURKEY: Melt the
margarine in aq saucepan. Add the flour and cook for two minutes. Add
the reserved gluten stock, white wine and soy sauce. Cook, stirring
constantly until thick.  For more flavor, an additional tablespoon of
light yeast flavoring may be added. HOMEMADE GLUTTEN: when you wash
the starch and bran away from high-gluten, whole-wheat flour, you end
up with just the wheat protien, or gluten. It's a strechy substance
with a particularly meaty texture when baked, boiled, stewed and
fried, and is the main component of the Great Gluten Turkey. This
recipe uses 3 puonds of flour. Note that the "turkey" recipe uses 10
pounds of flour. The recipe ingredients can be increased and you can
follow the same method outlined here. NOTE: If you wish to avoid the
work of making homemade gluten, there is also instant gluten flour
(vital wheat gluten), which only needs to be mixed with water. 3
pounds or more high-gluten whole-wheat flour 3 cups or more water The
important point here is to use a high-gluten whole-wheat flour.
Whole-wheat pastry flour will not give you the same results. If
you're in in doubt, ask for the best flour for breadbaking, it has
the highest gluten content. Place the flour in a large bowl and add
the water while stirring constantly. Add enough water to make a very
firm dough, it should be much firmer than bread dough. Allow this to
sit for at least one hour.  No kneading or setting overnight is
necessary. Place the bowl containing the dough in the sink.  Fill it
with tap water and begint to massage the dough.  The water will grow
very white and milky ar first, as the starch rinses out. This liquid
can be saved and used in place of arrowroot or cornstarch to thicken
sauces and such. It will keep for about two weeks in the
refrigerator. If you don't save it, discard the water as it gets
cloudy and fill the bowl with fresh water. Keep filling the bowl with
fresh water, massaging the dough and discarding the water for about
10 - 15 minutes until the water grows gradually clear. During this
process as the starch and bran gets washed away, the dough will
shrink in size and at one point may appear to be falling apart
completely. In the end it will all congeal into one strechy mass.
When it looks like you have a giant wad of well chewed bubble gum,
you have transformed flour into raw gluten. It is now ready for use
in the Great Gluten Turkey Recipe.

