Title: THIT BO VIEN (BEEF BALLS)
Categories: Vietnam, Beef/veal, Appetizers
Yield: 60 Servings
5 tb Nuoc mam (vietnamese fish sa
-uce)
4 ts Potato starch
1 ts Baking powder
1 ts Sugar, granulated
1 ts Pepper, black, ground
2 lb Trimmed boneless beef hind s
-hank
4    Garlic cloves; crushed
1 ts Oriental sesame oil
Vegetable oil, for shaping m
-eatballs
In a shallow dish, mix the fish sauce, potato starch, baking
powder, sugar and black pepper.
Slice the meat into 1/8-inch-thick pieces. Add to the mari-
nade and mix well. Cover and refrigerate for at least 4 hours, or
overnight.
Before proceeding, transfer the meat to the freezer for 30
minutes.
Work with half of the beef at a time; do not overload the work
bowl. In a food processor, combine half of the beef with half of the
garlic and sesame oil. Process to a completely smooth but stiff
paste, about 3 minutes. Stop occasionally to scrape  down the sides
of the work bowl. The completed paste should spring back to the
touch. Transfer the paste to a bowl. Process  the remaining beef,
garlic and sesame oil the same way.
Rub some vegetable oil on one hand. Grab a handful of the meat
paste and close your hand into a fist, squeezing out a small portion
of the mixture, about 1 teaspoon, between your thumb and index
finger. Keep rolling and resqueezing the same portion between your
thumb and index finger until you obtain a smooth rounded ball. Scoop
out the meatball with an oiled spoon. Repeat until all of the paste
is used.
Pour 1 inch of water into a wok or wide pot. Place a steamer
rack or bamboo steamer over the water. Arrange the meatballs without
crowding in a single layer on the rack. Cover and steam for 5 minutes.
Serve as an appetizer with chili sauce. These beef balls can
also be added to a well-seasoned beef broth, sprinkled with chopped
scallions and black pepper and served as a soup (noodles may be
added).
Note: These meatballs may be frozen. Thaw them thoroughly, then
steam or simmer in boiling water until just heated through.
Yield: about 60 meatballs.

