Title: THREE FILLINGS FOR WON TON WRAPPERS
Categories: Wasnone
Yield: 36 Servings
GINGER CHEESE BEGGARS PURSE
1 lb Mascarpone cheese
2 tb Wasabi mustard paste
1/3 c  Pickled ginger -- chopped
1 bn Green onions -- slivered
RUSSIAN CABBAGE PIROGI
2    Vidalia onions
1 lg Head of cabbage -- red
2 tb Unsalted butter
Olive oil
1 tb Kosher salt
2 tb Sugar
1/4 c  Wine vinegar
PUMPKIN PICADILLO EMPANADA
1 md Can pumpkin
1/3 c  Pimiento stuffed green
Olives -- chopped
1/3 c  Golden raisins
1/3 c  Chopped walnuts -- toasted
1/4 ts Kosher salt
1/4 ts Cinnamon
1/4 ts Cayenne pepper
1/4 ts Allspice
GINGER:  If mascarpone is unavailable, use a well-blended combination
of 2/3 cream cheese and 1/3 ricotta cheese. Double the amount of
wasabi, to taste. Combine and let the mixture marry for at least an
hour. CABBAGE. If Vidalias are not in season, use a sweet yellow
onion. Peel, split, slice the onions. Finely dice the cabbage. Heat a
combination of butter and oil and add the onions and cabbage. Slowly
saute for about 20 minutes, until the onions start to be translucent.
Add salt and sugar. Continue to cook slowly, stirring occassionally
until the onions have turned a caramel brown. This should take about
an hour. Remove from heat and add the vinegar. PUMPKIN. Combine all
ingredients. (That's all she wrote.)

Six-Course Theme Dinner - Hidden Surprises 1. International Sampler
of Won Ton, Pirogi, and Empanada 2. Russian Kulebiaka, an oblong pie
of puff pastry filled with layers of salmon, dilled rice and wild
mushrooms, sliced serving topped with a light dilled mushroom sauce
3. Individual loaf of Tuscan Bread, scooped, filled with chicken
liver pate and juniper berries. Topped with quail, stuffed with
Italian sausage. 4. Stuffed Leg of Lamb; swiss chard, raisins, pine
nuts and a cabernet sauce 5. Choice of salad of field greens (red
oak, tango, radicchio, mizuna, with a light balsamic vinaigrette, or
a pear half and a cube of Stilton cheese 6. Bombe - Coffee Ice Cream
crust, sponge cake and fudge sauce, toffee crunch, and vanilla ice
cream studded with bits of amaretti cookies.

: Lou Jane Temple, Death by Rhubarb Categories
Recipes From Mysteries
Recipe By
: Appetizers

