Title: CHOCOLATE CREAM PIE (THT)
Categories: New, Text, Import
Yield: 8 Servings
1 c  Slivered almonds
2 1/4 c  Heavy cream,, cold
3 lg Egg whites
1/3 c  Confectioners' sugar
3/4 c  Granulated sugar
3/4 ts Vanilla extract
1/2 ts Cream of tartar
6 oz Bittersweet
7 oz Semisweet chocolate,
-chocolate, grated
- or shaved chopped into
-curls,, for
-garnish(optional)
1 oz Unsweetened chocolate,,
-chopped
Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Spread the almonds on a cookie sheet and
toast in the oven until golden, about 15 minutes. Set aside to cool.
Turn the oven down to 275 degrees. Butter the bottom and sides (not
the lip) of a 9-inch glass pie plate. Place the egg whites in a bowl
of an electric mixer and set over a pan of hot tap water until
slightly warmed. Then whisk the warm egg whites until soft peaks
form. Whisk in the cream of tartar and then add the granulated sugar
in a slow, steady, stream, whisking continuously. Continue whisking
until stiff and glossy, 15 to 20 minutes longer. Make a pie shell
with the meringue by smoothing it over the bottom and sides of the
buttered pie plate. Bake until slightly crisp and dry, 15 minutes.
Cool on a rack.

Combine the two chocolates in a bowl over simmering water, and stir
occasionally until melted. Let cool to room temperature. Combine the
heavy cream, confectioners' sugar, cinnamon and vanilla in a mixing
bowl. Beat at medium speed until very soft peaks form, 2 to 3
minutes. Stir one third of the cream into the melted chocolates to
lighten. Then add that mixture to the whipped cream and fold in until
completely incorporated. Scatter half of the toasted almonds over the
cooked meringue shell. Top with the chocolate cream filling,
smoothing the top. Decorate the top with the remaining toasted
almonds and grated chocolate or chocolate curls, if desired. Cover
and refrigerate at least one hour before serving.

Yield: 8-10 servings Posted to MC-Recipe Digest V1 #

Recipe by: TOO HOT TAMALES SHOW#TH6141

From: Meg Antczak <meginny@frontiernet.net>

Date: Thu, 5 Dec 1996 21:11:52 -0500

