Title: CHOCOLATE MOUSSE TRIFLE
Categories: Desserts
Yield: 1 Trifle
MMMMM------------------------SPONGE CAKE-----------------------------
2    Eggs
1/2 c  Sugar
2/3 c  All-purpose flour
1/2 ts Baking powder
1/4 ts Salt
3 tb Water
1 ts Vanilla extract
1    Envelope unflavored gelatin
2 tb Cold water
1/4 c  Boiling water
2/3 c  Sugar
1/3 c  HERSHEY'S Cocoa
1 1/2 c  Cold whipping cream
1 1/2 ts Vanilla extract
1/4 c  Rum, divided (optional)
2 c  Sliced, peeled peaches
-OR- kiwi
2 c  Strawberries or raspberries
- (sliced, sweetened)
Sweetened whipped cream
Fresh fruit
1. Prepare SPONGE CAKE (see below).

2. Sprinkle gelatin over cold water in small bowl; let stand 1 minute
to soften. Add boiling water; stir until gelatin is completely
dissolved (mixture must be clear).

3. Stir together sugar and cocoa in large cold bowl; add whipping
cream and vanilla. Beat on medium speed of electric mixer until
stiff. Pour in gelatin mixture; stir until well blended.

4. To assemble trifle: Slice sponge cake into two layers; place one
layer in bottom of 2-quart straight-sided souffle dish or trifle
bowl. Sprinkle with 2 tablespoons rum, if desired. Arrange layer of
peaches or kiwi on top of cake. Spoon about half chocolate mousse
onto fruit. Top with remaining cake layer. Sprinkle with remaining
rum; arrange sliced strawberries or raspberries on cake. Top with
remaining mousse; refrigerate about 2 hours. Before serving, garnish
with spoonfuls of whipped cream and fresh fruit.

NOTE: 3-ounce package (12 unfilled ladyfingers, split) can be
substituted for sponge cake. Arrange ladyfingers in two layers
cutting as needed to fit bowl..

SPONGE CAKE:

1. Heat oven to 350 F. Grease and flour 8-inch round baking pan.

2. In bowl, beat eggs at high speed of electric mixer until foamy.
Gradually add sugar beating until mixture is double in volume.

3. Stir together flour, baking powder and salt; alternately add with
water and vanilla to egg mixture, beating on low speed just until
ingredients are combined. Immediately pour batter into prepared pan.

4. Bake 22 to 25 minutes or until cake springs back when touched
lightly. Cool 5 minutes. Remove from pan; cool completely on wire
rack. Hershey's is a registered trademark of Hershey Foods
Corporation. Recipe may be reprinted courtesy of the Hershey Kitchens.

Meal-Master format courtesy of Karen Mintzias

