Title: CHOCOLATE SOUFFLE ROLL
Categories: Chocolate
Yield: 10 Servings
5    Eggs
6 oz Semisweet Chocolate
2 tb Butter
2 tb Cognac -- or water
1 tb Cognac -- (optional) *
Salt
1/3 c  Granulated Sugar
1 c  Heavy Cream
Powdered Sugar -- for
Garnish
1/2 pt Raspberries -- for garnish
(optiona
* for whipping cream

1) Heat oven to 350 F. Butter and line a 10 x 15" jelly roll pan with
waxed paper. Separate eggs.

2) Cut chocolate into small pieces and combine butter and 2 tbl. of
cognac in large bowl. In medium saucepan, bring 2" water to a simmer
over low heat. Remove pan from heat. Set bowl of chocolate over hot
water and stir until mixture is smooth. Remove bowl from hot water
and add egg yolks, one at a time, beating thoroughly. Set aside.

3) Beat egg whites with a pinch of salt until they just begin to hold
soft peaks. Add sugar in slow stream and continue beating until
stiff. Gently stir about 1/4 of the egg-white mixture into chocolate
mixture, and fold in remainder.

4) Pour batter into pan and smooth top with a metal spatula. Bake
until firm to the touch, about 15 minutes.

5) Run a small, sharp knife along edge of cake to loosen it. Slide
cake onto work surface and let cool about 20 minutes.

6) Slide cookie sheet under cake and cover cake with a sheet of waxed
paper. Set another cookie sheet on top and invert cake. Lift off top
pan. Peel off paper and replace with a clean sheet. Put cookie sheet
back on top and invert cake again. Remove top cookie sheet and paper.

7) Combine cream and remaining tbl. cognac and whip until stiff.
Spread cream over cake.

8) To roll cake, pick up long edge of paper with both hands and ease
cake into a curve. Still holding paper, simultaneously lift and roll
cake directly onto serving platter, seam inside down. Trim edges. Put
confectioners' sugar into a sieve and dust over roll.

Recipe can be made and refrigerated, covered, several hours ahead.

Serving: Garnish with raspberries, if desired.

Serves 10

>From Cook's Magazine, May 1988, p. 74.

NOTES:

Loosely based on James Beard's Chocolate Roll; this recipe can also
be used to make a chocolate souffle in a 1 1/2 quart gratin dish, or
a round cake covered with whipped cream.

: JENNIFER G HAHN <jhahn@WELCHLINK. WELCH. JHU. EDU>
Recipe By

