Title: CHOCOLATE ROSES
Categories: Chocolate, Valentine
Yield: 1 Batch
10 oz Chocolate (chopped chunks
Or chips)
1/3 c  Light corn syrup
Chocolate modeling clay is made by combining melted chocolate and
light corn syrup. American pastry chefs invented the recipe and have
been using this delicious edible clay to make garnishes and unique
decorations. Here is their secret!

Note: the chocolate can be substituted with almond bark, or colored
candy disks to create different colored flowers

Clay:

Melt he chocolate in a microwave for 1 minute. Stir. If chocolate is
not completely melted, return to the microwave for 30 seconds at a
time and stir until smooth. If you don't have a microwave, place the
chocolate in the top of a double broiler over hot water and stir
until melted. When the chocolate is melted, add the corn syrup and
blend. Pour the mixture onto a waxed paper sheet.Spread the chocolate
with your fingers until it's about 1/2 inch thick. Cover loosely with
waxed paper and let it stiffen for at least a couple hours or
overnight. The chocolate will become very pliable.

Making a Chocolate Rose:

Have the kids roll 10 marble-sized balls out of the chocolate clay.
Place the balls on a waxed paper sheet, about 1 inch apart. Place
another waxed paper sheet on top. Big or little thumbs can press each
marble into a flat disk (about the size of a quarter). Use some
pressure!

To form the rose:

Remove 1 disk and curl it into a "teepee" shape, narrow at the top and
wider at the bottom. Wrap the next disk around the opening of the
teepee and the third disk at the back of the teepee. This is the rose
bud. Continue adding disks which will look like petals. Continue to
layer them to create a rose in bloom. Roses can be used as edible
decorations for a cake or to create a basketful of blooms. They will
harden after a few days and can be saved by storing in a cool, dry
place.

Since this recipe is the consistency of modeling clay, you can mold
any shape you want.

Important note: Adult supervision and participation is required for
this activity.

