Title: CHOCOLATE BREAD PUDDING  LOWFAT
Categories: Chocolate, Low-fat/low, Puddings
Yield: 8 Servings
12 sl French Bread Slice --
Good-quality, day-
Old, or Italian
Baguette, about 1"
Thick (3-4 oz total
Wt)  (1)
1 1/2    Egg Beaters® 99% Egg
Substitute -- equiv to 3
Eggs (2)
2 1/2 c  Milk, 1% lowfat -- (2.  5)
1/4 c  Honey -- (3)
1 ts Vanilla Extract
2 tb Brandy -- or Kahlua
1/3 c  Cocoa Powder --
Dutch-process (4)
2 ts Cornstarch
pn Salt
Last night I finally tried the chocolate bread recipe in "Sweet
Nothings" and it was GREAT! The only fat comes from that which is in
1/3 C. of cocoa powder and the bread. It's supposed to have 3 eggs,
but I didn't have any eggs so I used substitute instead and it was
fine.

Even though I was out of a lot of the ingredients, I managed to
make-do with what I had on hand. Perhaps it would've been tastier if
made exactly according to recipe, but as it stands it's pretty damn
tasty!

Here's the original unaltered recipe (my alterations are below):

Arrange bread slices, staggering them, in a 12 - 14" long oval gratin
dish or a 4 C souffle dish.

In a large bowl whisk together the eggs, milk, honey, sugar, vanilla
and brandy or Kahlua. Sift the cocoa powder, cornstarch, and salt
together onto the egg mixture, then whisk until thoroughly combined
(and your arm will probably want to fall off at this point).

Pour the cocoa-egg mixture evenly over the bread slices and let stand
until all the bread is thoroughly saturated with the custard.
Depending upon the freshness of the bread (5) and the dish you
choose, this could take 1 - 2 hrs. Bake the pudding in a 325 deg F
oven for 40 - 60 min, until it is barely firm to the touch but not
dry and pulling away from the sides of the dish. Serve warm or,
alternatively, cover and chill thoroughly before serving. 170
calories, 2.
7 g  fat (6)

1) I didn't have the right bread but I did have some Squaw bread in
the freezer so I dried it out in the over at a low temperature for
about 1/2 an hour.

2) I didn't have eggs so I used egg sub.

2.  5) Forgot this one. I didn't have any skim milk on hand so I used
a can of nonfat evaporated milk and added water to make 2. 5 C.

3) I didn't have any honey so I used corn syrup (a little extra
because honey is so sweet).

4) You can use unsweetend Herschey's cocoa for it if you don't want
to try to locate dutch-process. Actually, dutch-processing just
leaves more of the fat in the cocoa.

5) I broke the bread up into pieces rather than leaving it in slices.
I figured that would help along the soaking process. I let it soak
for 10-15 min.

6) Probably lots less fat without using real eggs. I estimate 3g from
the cocoa. At most only 1g or so per serving. -- npm@netcom. com
Nancy from San Diego, California Formatted
into MasterCook II by Reggie Dwork reggie@netcom. com

: Sweet Nothings
Recipe By

