Title: CHOCOLATE INTEMPERANCE
Categories: Chocolate, Cakes
Yield: 6 Servings
1 1/2    Pounds, semisweet chocolate
3    Eggs, seperated
1/2 c  Strong coffee
1/2 c  Tia Maria
2 tb Sugar
1/2 c  Heavy cream
Cake:
23 oz Brownie mix
2 tb Water
3    Eggs
Glaze:
8 oz Semisweet chocolate chips
1/3 c  Water
Serves: 8 to 10

This mousse-filled, chocolate-swathed mold is an embarrassment of
riches. When served to chocolate lovers, the only sound in the room
will be faint moans of pure, unadulterated decadent pleasure.

Filling:

Melt chocolate with coffee on top of a double boiler. When chocolate
is completely melted, remove pan from heat. Beat egg yolks until pale
yellow and stir into chocolate. Gradually stir in Tia Maria. Cool
mixture.

In a seperate bowl, beat egg whites, gradually adding sugar until
whites are stiff. Whip cream. Gently fold whipped cream into cooled
chocolate mixture and then fold in egg whites.

Preheat oven to 350.  Beat ingredients together at medium speed of
electric mixer until batter is smooth. Grease an 11-by-15 inch
jellyroll pan. Line it with waxed paper. Grease and lightly flower
paper, shaking off any excess flower.  Spread batter evenly in
jellyroll pan. Bake for 10 to 12 minutes or until cake tests done.
Turn cake onto a rack and peel off paper. Lightly oil a 2-quart
charlotte mold and line with cooled cake. Cut rounds of cake to fit
both top and bottom of mold, and a strip for sides. Place smaller
round in bottom of mold. (you will probably have to piece one section
of side to cover completely, but don't worry; any patchwork will be
hidden by chocolate glaze.) Fit larger round of cake on top of mold.
Chill for 3 or 4 hours or until firm. Unmold and cover with glaze.

Melt chocolate in water and stir until smooth.  Spread over top of
mousse-cake and drizzle down sides.  Chill again. Serve in slender
slices ~- its indecently opulent.

Hints: Melt chocolate in microwave. Its much faster. Instructions are
on the chocolate package.

A souffle dish makes a good replacement for the Charlotte mold.

Source:The Best of Bon Appetit (1979) Shared by: Bill Calvin

