Title: CHOCOLATE CHUNK BROWNIES
Categories: Godiva, Brownies, Chocolate
Yield: 24 Servings
1 1/4 c  All-purpose flour
1/4 ts Baking soda
1/8 ts Double acting baking powder
1/8 ts Salt
14 oz Semisweet chocolate --
Finely chopped
1 c  Granulated sugar
9 tb Unsalted butter -- cut
Tablespoons
1/4 c  Light corn syrup
1/4 c  Water
3 lg Eggs -- chilled
1 tb Vanilla extract
1 1/2 c  Coarsely chopped walnut --
Halves, divided
9 oz Swiss dark chocolate -- cut
Inch chunks -- divided
Position a rack in the center of the oven and preheat to 325 degrees
F. Line a 13-by-9 1/2-inch baking pan with a double thickness of
aluminum foil so that the foil extends 2 inches beyond the two short
ends of the pan. Fold the overhang down along the sides of the pan.
Butter the bottom of the foil-lined pan. In a medium bowl, stir
together the flour, baking soda, baking powder and salt. Place the
semisweet chocolate in a large bowl. In a medium saucepan, combine
the sugar, butter, corn syrup and water. Cook over medium heat,
stirring constantly with a wooden spoon, until the butter melts, the
sugar is dissolved and the mixture comes to a boil. Remove the pan
from the heat and pour the hot syrup over the chocolate. Let the
mixture stand for 1 to 2 minutes, to melt the chocolate. Whisk until
smooth. One at a time, whisk in the eggs, blending until smooth.
Whisk in the vanilla and the flour mixture, mixing until the batter
is smooth. Using a rubber spatula, fold in 1 cup of the walnuts and 6
ounces of the Swiss chocolate chunks. Scrape the batter into the
prepared pan and spread it evenly with a spatula. Sprinkle the
remaining 1/2 cup of walnuts and 3 ounces of chocolate chunks over
the top of the batter. Bake the brownies for 40 to 50 minutes, or
until a cake tester or toothpick inserted into the center of the
brownie comes out with a few moist crumbs clinging to it. Cool the
brownies in the pan set on a wire rack. When the brownies are
completely cool, cover the pan of brownies with plastic wrap and let
the brownies set at room temperature for at least 6 hours or
overnight. Invert the brownies onto a large plate or cutting board.
Remove the pan and carefully peel off the foil. Invert again onto a
smooth cutting surface and cut into 24 bars. Store the brownies at
room temperature in an airtight container for up to five days.

:
Recipe By

