Title: CHOCOLATE MOIST MADELEINES
Categories: Cookies, Christmas
Yield: 3 Dozen
3 tb (plus 1 1/2 teaspoons)
Unsweetened cocoa
3 tb Boiling water
3    Large eggs
1 1/2 ts Pure vanilla extract
1 1/4 c  Sifted cake flour (sift into
Cup and level off)
3/4 c  (plus 2 tablespoons) sugar
3/4 ts Baking powder
1/4 ts Salt
13 tb Unsalted butter (softened)
MMMMM---------------------------SYRUP--------------------------------
2 tb Sugar
1/4 c  Water
1 tb Kahlua
Preheat oven to 350F.

In a medium mixing bowl, whisk together the cocoa and water until
smooth. Allow the mixture to cool to room temperature, then lightly
whisk in the eggs and vanilla extract.

In a large mixing bowl, combine the remaining dry ingredients and mix
on low speed for 30 seconds to blend. Add half the chocolate mixture
and the butter to the dry ingredients. Mix on low speed until the dry
ingredients are moistened.  On medium speed (high speed if using a
hand-held mixer), beat for 1 minute to aerate and develop the
structure. Scrape the sides of the bowl.  Gradually add the remaining
chocolate mixture in 2 batches, beating for 20 seconds after each
addition to incorporate the ingredients and strengthen the structure.
Scrape the sides of the bowl. Scrape the batter into a gallon
capacity freezer bag, close it securely, and cut off a small piece
from one of the corners of the bag. Pipe the batter into buttered
madeleine molds, filling them not quite full. Leave the remaining
batter in the bag, refrigerated, for the following batches.

Bake for 10-12 minutes or until a tester inserted in the center comes
out clean and the madeleines spring back when pressed lightly in the
centers. For even baking, rotate the molds from top to bottom and
front to back halfway through the baking time.

Unmold madeleines onto wire racks to cool completely.

If desired, these madeleines may be brushed with a Kahlua syrup made
as follows:

In a small pan, stir together the sugar and water. Bring to a full
rolling boil.  Cover immediately and remove the pan from the heat.
When cool, swirl in the Kahlua.

If desired, brush the madeleines on both sides with the syrup. Wrap
each one separately in plastic wrap. For the most attractive
appearance, store them without the syrup and brush on the syrup a day
or so before you plan to serve them.

Store in an airtight container at room temperature, or in the
refrigerator or freezer.

Keeps 3 days without syrup, 1 week with syrup, at room temperature; 2
weeks refrigerated; 3 months frozen.

Tips: If you do not have enough madeleine molds to bake all the
batter at one time, store the batter in the refrigerator and bake it
in batches. Rinse out the molds after each batch and butter them.

If you are planning to use the madeleines to dunk, omit the syrup;
madeleines should be a little dry so that they act like sponges. The
syrup helps to preserve the moistness and will greatly extend their
keeping qualities, which is helpful if you are planning to give them
as gifts.

The syrup allows the cookies to keep over 1 week at room temperature.
If you are planning the eat them the same day or the next, omit the
syrup or use only a sprinkle of Kahlua. The subtle coffee flavor
accentuates the chocolate.

From: Rose's Christmas Cookies by Rose Levy Beranbaum

