Title: CHOCOLATE BERRIES OR ORANGE SECTIONS
Categories: Candies
Yield: 1 Servings
MMMMM-------------------SUSAN AARONSON PSTT79C------------------------
Perfect strawberries
<<<OR Better Still>>>
Long stemmed berries
That are sold in many
Fruit markets
6 oz Good quality bittersweet
Chocolate
Orange sections
White chocolate; opt'l
Here's the recipe for the chocolate berries or orange sections. Pick
out perfect strawberries with fresh looking green tops, or better
still, get the long stemmed berries that are sold in many fruit
markets. Wash and THOROUGHLY DRY the berries on paper toweling. If
any of the berries have soft spots, don't dip them. The juice will
leak out and the finished product will look awful. Melt about 6
ounces of very good quality bittersweet chocolate. I use Belgian or
French chocolate, but Lindt or Tobler are also excellent. Line cookie
sheets with waxed paper. When chocolate is melted and smooth pour it
into a dish that will give you depth rather than surface.  Pick up a
berry by the leaves and dip it into the chocolate about 3/4 of the
way, leaving the stems and a bit of the berry showing. Let excess
chocolate drip back into the bowl and place the dipped berry onto the
lined cookie sheet. Put in refrigerator to harden chocolate. If you
want to get fancier, melt some white chocolate and dip the very
bottom of the dark chocolate dipped berry into the white chocolate or
put the melted white chocolate into a pastry bag, fitted with a very
fine writing tip, and sort of 'write' squiggly lines all over the dark
chocolate.  I like to serve these berries on non-toxic green leaves
or palm fronds that can be purchased from a florist. Orange sections
dipped in chocolate are a bit trickier but fantastic. Completely peel
an orange, being very careful not to pierce the membrane that
surrounds each section. Remove as much of the pith that clings to the
orange section. Blot the sections on paper towels to absorb ANY
moisture. Melt the chocolate as described above and put it into a
dish that is large enough to accommodate a whole section of orange.
Holding the NPXR56B
FOOD AND WINE BB TOPIC: FOOD SOFTWARE TIME: 07/06 5:58 PM

NORMA WRENN   (NPXR56B) FROM: NORMA WRENN (NPXR56B) SUBJECT:
TO:
R-MM AARONSON

