Title: CHOCOLATE FUDGE CAKE
Categories: Chocolate, Cakes
Yield: 9 Servings
1 lb Milk chocolate
1/2 lb Semisweet or
-extra-bittersweet chocolate
3/4 lb Softened butter
FUDGE CAKE
3 c  Cake flour
2 c  Light-brown sugar
2 1/4 ts Baking powder
3/4 ts Baking soda
3/4 ts Salt
1 1/2 c  Milk
3    Eggs
1 1/2 ts Vanilla extract
4 oz Unsweetened chocolate
6 oz Softened butter
MILK CHOCOLATE FROSTING

PREPARATION:  FROSTING.  Chop both chocolates into coarse bits and
melt in a double boiler set over hot (not boiling) water. Stir
occasionally until completely melted.  Remove pan from hot water and
allow the chocolate to cool until just no longer warm to the touch,
about 20 minutes. Place the butter in a bowl and beat in the cooled
chocolate until the mixture is evenly blended, about 3 minutes.
Frosting can be stored at a cool temperature for up to 3 days, or
several months in the freezer. Heat the oven to 350F. Butter two
9-inch round cake pans and line them with buttered and floured
parchment paper or waxed paper.

FUDGE CAKE.  Sift the flour.  Measure 3 cups.  In a large bowl, mixx
together the flour, sugar, baking powder, baking soda, and salt,
breaking up any lumps of sugar. In a small bowl, whisk about 1/2 cup
of the milk with the eggs and vanilla; set aside. Chop the chocolate
into coarse bits and melt in a double boiler set over hot (not
boiling) water. Combine the remaining cup of milk and the butter with
the mixed dry ingredients and beat for 1 1/2 minutes, scraping the
sides of the bowl twice. Add the egg mixture in 3 parts, scraping the
sides of the bowl and beating for 20 seconds after each addition. Add
the melted chocolate and beat until just incorporated. Pour the
batter into the prepared pans and bake in the center of the preheated
oven until the cake springs back when lightly pressed in the center,
25 to 30 minutes. Cool the cakes in their pans for 10 minutes and
invert onto racks. Cool completely before frosting. Frost the top
surface of one layer of cake and top with the second layer. Spread
the remaining frosting on the top and sides of the cake. Make a
decorative pattern zigzag in the frosting by pulling a serrated knife
across the surface in a back-and-forth motion.  Use a small spatula
or spoon handle to pull out spikes of frosting all around the sides.
Cake can be completed a day ahead and refrigerated.

SERVING:  Return to room temperature if refrigerated. Cut into wedges
and serve.

Makes one 9-inch cake.

[ The Best of COOKS Magazine; 1987 ] Posted by: Fred Peters

