Title: CHOCOLATE RASPBERRY ALMOND TORTE
Categories: Desserts, Chocolate
Yield: 1 Servings
1/2 c  Blanched almonds, toasted li
-htly
2 oz Unsweetened chocolate
2 tb Unsalted butter
2 lg Eggs
1 c  Sugar
1 tb Framboise (or other raspberr
- brandy)
3/4 c  Flour
1 ts Baking powder
1/2 ts Salt
1 c  Raspberries
Glaze:
1/3 c  Raspberry jam
1 tb Sugar
Ganache:
1/4 c  Heavy cream
6 oz Bittersweet chocolate, chopp
-d
Lemon leaves for garnish
Raspberries for garnish and
-ccompaniment
In a food processor, grind the almonds, scraping down the sides of
the bowl occasionally, for 5 minutes or until they are the
consistency of nut butter.  Reserve.

In a bowl set over simmering water, melt the chocolate and the butter,
stirring occasionally.  Remove from heat.

In a large bowl with an electric mixer, beat eggs until they are
pale, add sugar gradually, beating, and beat until mixture is very
thick and pale. Beat in chocolate mixture, framboise, and the almond
butter, and beat until well combined.  Sift the flour, baking powder,
and salt into the bowl. Beat until well combined. Fold in 1 cup of
raspberries gently. Turn the mixture into a well-buttered 8-1/2-inch
springform pan, spreading it evenly and smoothing the top.

Bake in the middle of a preheated 350f oven for 40-45 minutes or
until pick comes out clean.  Let torte cool in the pan on a rack, and
then remove sides of pan.

In a small heavy saucepan, combine the jam and sugar, bring mixture
to a boil, stirring, and boil it, stirring, for 3 minutes. Force
glaze through a fine sieve into a small bowl.

Invert the torte onto the rack, set over wax paper, remove bottom of
the pan, and spread the glaze on top and sides of the torte. Let the
torte stand at room temperature for 2 hours, or until the glaze is
set.

In a small heavy saucepan, bring cream to a boil and remove pan from
heat. Stir in chocolate, stirring until mixture is smooth, and then
let the ganache cool for about 3 minutes.

Pour ganache over the torte, smoothing it with a spatula and letting
the excess drip down the side, and let the torte stand for 1 hour, or
until the ganache is set. Transfer the torte, carefully, to a serving
plate. Garnish with additional raspberries and lemon leaves. Serve
with additional raspberries and lemon leaves alongside.

a 1989 Gourmet Mag. favorite

