Title: CHOCOLATE RAISIN BREAD PUDDING W/WHITE CHOCOL
Categories: Desserts
Yield: 8 Servings
MMMMM-----------------------BREAD PUDDING----------------------------
10 sl Raisin bread; about 1 lb
3 c  Half-and-half
2 c  Whole milk
6 oz Milk chocolate; coarse chopd
4 lg Eggs
2/3 c  Granulated sugar
1/3 c  Mandarin orange liqueur; OR
-other orange liqueur
1 1/2 ts Vanilla extract
Dash salt
5 oz Bittersweet chocolate;
-coarsely chopped
MMMMM--------------------CREME FRAICHE SAUCE-------------------------
10 oz Creme fraiche or sour cream
2 1/2 oz White chocolate; finely
-grated or shaved
1/4 ts Cinnamon
Preheat oven to 300 F. Lay the bread slices on the upper rack of the
oven in a single layer. Toast 5 to 7 minutes or until crisp and very
light golden brown. Remove from oven and cool to room temperature.
Cut or break into 1-inch-square pieces (you should have 9 or 10 cups
of toasted bread cubes) and set aside, uncovered, in a very large
bowl for up to 2 days, if desired.

In a 4-quart heavy-bottomed saucepan, combine the half-and-half, milk
and milk chocolate. Heat over moderately low heat for 3 to 4 minutes,
stirring frequently, until the chocolate just melts. Mix well, remove
from the heat and cool slightly.

Preheat oven to 350 F. Generously grease a shallow 4-quart glass
mixing bowl or casserole dish; set aside.

In a large bowl, whisk the eggs, sugar, liqueur, vanilla extract and
salt together until smooth and fully blended. Slowly add the reserved
chocolate-cream mixture, whisking constantly until smooth and
thoroughly mixed. Pour over the bread cubes and toss gently. Let
stand at room temperature for approximately 1 hour, pressing the
bread down into the liquid every 15 to 20 minutes to promote even
saturation. Add the bittersweet chocolate and mix gently.

Turn the mixture into the prepared bowl and place on the middle rack
of the oven. Bake for 15 minutes. Reduce the temperature to 325 F and
bake 55 minutes to 1 hour longer, rotating the baking dish from time
to time, until the outside edges are slightly firm and the center
barely jiggles when shook.  Remove from the oven and let stand at
room temperature for 10 to 12 minutes before serving.

To make the White Chocolate Creme Fraiche Sauce: In a medium bowl,
combine the creme fraiche, white chocolate and cinnamon; mix well.
The sauce can be prepared up to 3 days in advance and stored in a
tightly sealed container in the refrigerator. Remove from the
refrigerator at least 30 minutes before serving.

To serve, spoon the warm pudding into serving bowls and drizzle with
the sauce. Serve immediately.

To reheat just a portion of the bread pudding: Using a shallow baking
pan, arrange the desired amount in a 1-inch-thick layer and sprinkle
with hot water. Cover loosely with foil and warm in a 350 F oven 7 to
10 minutes or until warmed through.

The San Francisco Examiner, February 9, 1994

