Title: BREAKFAST CASSEROLE
Categories: Breakfast, Usenet
Yield: 6 servings
2 lb Sausage, bulk
-(see note)
1 lb Cheddar, grated
-(or more to taste)
8 lg Eggs
2 1/2 C  Milk
3 C  Bread cubes
1 t  Mustard, dry
1/2 lb Mushrooms, fresh
Brown the sausage in a frying pan; drain off excess fat.  Set aside.

In a large bowl, beat the eggs.  Add milk, mustard and bread cubes.  If you
like salty dishes, add a teaspoon of salt.  Wait a few minutes for the
bread cubes to absorb the milk and eggs. Stir in 80 percent of the grated
cheese. Add the cooked and drained sausage. Mix well. Pour into a casserole
dish of the size that you would use to make lasagna (about 9 x 13 inches).

Slice the mushrooms and arrange the slices on top of the casserole.
Sprinkle the remaining 20 percent of the cheese over the top of the
mushrooms.  Bake for 45 minutes at 350 degrees F. Let cool 10 minutes
before serving.

NOTES:

*  A baked egg, sausage and bread casserole -- I got this recipe from a
recipe chain letter when I was in graduate school. "Send 5 recipes to the
person whose name is at the top of the list, and then add your name to the
bottom of the list and send it to 5 friends." I ended up getting about 30
recipes that way; this is the only one that I still make. It's wonderful.
The person who mailed it to me is named Ruth Ann Swart. I've changed it
slightly because I don't like to leave raw egg mixtures in the refrigerator
overnight, as the original recipe called for. Yield: serves 6-8.

*  You can cut up your own bread for the bread cubes, or else buy a package
of commercial poultry stuffing. Try to get unflavored bread cubes if you
buy them.

*  For the sausage, try Spanish chorizo, English Cumberland sausage, or
American pork whole-hog sausage.  I usually use a mixture of beef chorizo
and Jimmy Dean pork sausage. Any spicy pork- or beef-based sausage will
work.

*  For the cheese, the best bet is Canadian sharp white cheddar.  You can
substitute any cheddar, or Leicester, or Cantal, or for that matter
anything you want. I've never tried it with Swiss cheeses.

: Difficulty:  easy.
: Time:  20 minutes preparation, 1 hour cooking and cooling.
: Precision:  no need to measure.

: Loretta Guarino Reid
: guarino@decwrl.ARPA    decwrl!guarino
: DEC Western Software Laboratory, Palo Alto CA

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

