Title: CHICKEN MILANAISE
Categories: Poultry, Usenet
Yield: 4 servings
1 T  Lemon juice
2 C  Rice, white (to serve
-on the side)
Salt and pepper
-(for the sauce)
1    Chicken
1 T  Salt
3 T  Butter, unsalted
3 T  Flour
2    Egg yolks
Place the chicken in a pot.  Cover it with water, add the salt and bring it
to a boil, skimming any scum that may form on the surface. Turn down the
heat, cover the pot and cook the chicken for about 1 hour or until it is
done.

Remove the chicken from the pot.  Skim and discard the chicken fat from the
surface of the broth.  Reserve about 2 cups of broth for the sauce and use
the remaining broth to cook the rice according to standard procedures for
cooking rice.

While the rice is cooking, make the sauce:  melt the butter under low heat
in a saucepan and add in the flour, salt and pepper. Stir until you get a
uniform mixture and then add the reserved broth gradually, stirring
constantly.  When the mixture thickens, remove from the heat.

Beat the egg yolks with the lemon juice and add them into the sauce.  Stir
the sauce until the egg yolks are completely blended. The sauce is ready.
Cut the chicken and serve with sauce on both the chicken and the rice.

Chicken with white sauce -- This is what my mother serves as Chicken
Milanaise.  I once ordered Chicken Milanaise at a restaurant, and they
served me an entirely different dish, so I'm not sure as to whether I'm
using the name properly. In any case, this recipe is one of my favourites!
Yield: serves 4-6.

*  You are supposed to use white pepper in the sauce but, since I don't
mind seeing a few black specs in the sauce, I always use black pepper.

*  If you are going to reheat the sauce, make sure that it doesn't come to
a boil, otherwise the egg will separate.

: Difficulty:  Easy.
: Time:  About 1 1/2 hours.
: Precision:  Measure the sauce ingredients.

: Kriton Kyrimis
: Princeton University, Computer Science Dept., Princeton, New Jersey, USA
princeton!kyrimis
: kyrimis@princeton.edu

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

