Title: CHOCOLATE TRUFFLES (French-style)
Categories: Candy, Usenet
Yield: 5 pounds
1/2 lb Butter, sweet (i.e.
-unsalted butter)
Cocoa powder
3 lb Chocolate (semi-sweet
-or semi-bittersweet)
1 qt Cream, very heavy
Melt the chocolate in the top of a double boiler.  Do not cook the
chocolate. This should be done SLOWLY over minimum heat.

Boil the cream.  Once the chocolate is completely melted and the cream just
boiled, combine in the top of the double boiler.  Take off the top pan from
the water, and (off heat) mix until completely combined.  Keep stirring
until it is relatively cool. Allow to sit until it is cool enough to put
into a refrigerator.

Refrigerate overnight (NO SHORT CUTS HERE!!!).

The next morning, melt this wonderful mixture again in a double boiler.
When it is completely melted again, mix in the butter until it is
completely absorbed. Whip, either with a hand whisk or a very slow electric
gizmo, until the butter is completely absorbed and the mixture is cool
again.  This can take an hour or longer, depending upon the chocolate, etc.
Let cool and refrigerate overnight once more (this is not as critical as
the first cooling; a few hours will be enough).

Heat once again and whip until cool.   Refrigerate until it is thick enough
to pipe through a pastry bag. Using a 1/2 nozzle, make little balls on a
big piece of parchment paper that has cocoa powder spread on it. Roll in
the powder. Keep chilled until just before serving. Let them return to just
above room temperature before eating.

NOTES:

*  French-style chocolate confectionery -- For those of you who are crazy
enough about chocolate to go to the extremes that I do, here is the recipe
for the chocolate truffles that I make. The formula is taken from Paul
Bocuse's "French Cooking," but the directions are my own.

*  If you like Grand Marnier or Kahlua or rum or whatever in your
chocolate, the last melting step is the time to add. I think it's a small
but forgivable sin myself.

*  I recommend Guittard chocolate.  You can buy their semisweet chips in 12
ounce bags.  You can also buy it in 10 pound bars.  You can also buy
10-pound bars of Guittards "French Vanilla Semi bittersweet" which is so
good you might eat all of it before you cook with it. Guittard makes 5
types of bittersweet if you like you chocolate really bitter. I use
Hershey's Cocoa.  Still the best for my taste.

*  Use genuine, real-live, honest "heavy cream" and not ultra-pasteurized
whipping cream.  Try a wholesale dairy.  I only use Challenge Sweet Butter.
Under no circumstances should you use anything but unsalted butter in this
recipe.

: Difficulty:  quite difficult (melting the chocolate 3 times requires
tremendous care).
: Time:  3 or 4 hours of preparation during a 3-day period.
: : Precision:  measure the ingredients.
:
: Maurice Bizzarri

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

