Title: CHRISTMAS/THANKSGIVING STUFFING
Categories: Entrees, Holiday, Usenet
Yield: 1 batch
1/2 C  Pine nuts
1/2 C  Almonds (blanched),
-whole
10    Prunes, pitted
1/2 C  Raisins
10    Chestnuts (up to 15)
1/2 lb Beef, ground
2 T  Butter
1 t  Salt
1/2 C  White rice, raw
1    Poultry liver
-(from the bird you
-are going to stuff)
Cook the chestnuts:  Cut a groove on each chestnut and roast them on the
stove (if you've got an electric stove, placing the chestnuts on the burner
will do the trick, though you'll have to do some cleaning afterwards.) When
they're done, peel them. Watch your hands.

Brown the beef with half the butter.  Add the rice, salt and a little
water, and let it cook on low heat, until the water is absorbed.

Boil the liver, mince it and add it into the rice and meat.  Add the
almonds, prunes, raisins, chestnuts (cut in chunks) and pine nuts. Add a
small amount of water and let everything simmer until the water is
absorbed.

The stuffing is ready to use.  Add the remaining butter and bake it.  I
usually wrap the stuffing in aluminum foil, put it in a separate pan and
bake it along with the chicken. When the chicken is ready, the stuffing is
ready too!

NOTES:

*  Holiday stuffing with fruit and nuts -- This is an elaborate version of
the type of poultry stuffing made in Greece. People there have never heard
of bread stuffings and, once you taste this recipe, you'll never want to
hear about bread stuffings either! I got the recipe from my mother, who got
it from a friend, who got it from her sister-in-law, who... Yield: stuffs
5-6 lb poultry.

*  If the chestnut-roasting procedure is to messy for you, then just boil
them.

*  The amounts in the ingredients list are there for completeness' sake.
You should really interpret them as a few, a handful or one small package.
The only thing you have to bear in mind is that putting more prunes will
make the stuffing sourer, and putting more raisins will make it sweeter.

*  The original recipe suggested using unpitted prunes.  I believe that
using pitted prunes is safer for the teeth!

: Difficulty:  easy to moderate.
: Time:  1 hour preparation, 1-2 hours cooking.
: Precision:  no need to measure.

: Kriton Kyrimis
: Princeton University, Computer Science Dept., Princeton, New Jersey, USA
: kyrimis@princeton.princeton.edu   allegra!princeton!kyrimis

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

