Title: COLE SLAW
Categories: Salads, Usenet
Yield: 8 servings
1 T  Lemon juice
1/2 t  Black pepper
1    Cabbage
1 C  Mayonnaise
1/2 C  Onion, diced very fine
Cut the core out of the cabbage and cut it into pieces.  My mother likes to
cut it into big pieces; I like to cut it into little pieces.  I think she
wants to make certain that nobody will accuse her of having used a food
processor.

Mix the pepper and lemon juice and onion in with the cabbage.  Add the
mayonnaise, mix well and refrigerate.

Vary the amount of mayonnaise according to how much you are worried about
calories.  Vary the amount of onion if you do or don't like raw onion.

When I make coleslaw for my mother or sister, I leave out the onion and the
black pepper, and put in about 1 T of sugar.

NOTES:

*  Coleslaw in many variations -- My family loves to eat coleslaw.
Unfortunately, we can never agree on the recipe.  If I am making a slaw
that my mother or sister will eat, I try to make a certain recipe with
mayonnaise and lemon juice; if I make it for my lunch or for a picnic, I
make an entirely different recipe loaded with onions and herbs. Craig
Claiborne likes to put caraway seeds in coleslaw. Betty Crocker suggests
pineapple and marshmallows.

"The Joy of Cooking" wants you to dress the slaw immediately before
serving, while Betty Crocker and Spice Islands want you to refrigerate for
several hours. The only rule seems to be to use fresh cabbage.

*  When I make slaw for a picnic or barbecue or someplace where subtlety
will not be rampant, I add about 1/2 t of dry mustard, about 2 t of
paprika, and about 1/2 t of celery or caraway seed. If I'm trying to
astonish somebody, I will add nuts, cheese, tarragon, whipping cream,
chives, whole grapes, frozen peas, Tabasco sauce, coriander seed, diced
apples, or other herbs or textural-contrast ingredients. I have not yet had
the nerve to try the Betty Crocker suggestion of omitting the onion and
then adding about 1/2 lb of chopped pineapple and about 1/2 cup of
miniature marshmallows.

: Difficulty:  easy.
: Time:  10 minutes.
: Precision:  no need to measure.

: Brian Reid
: DEC Western Research Lab, Palo Alto CA
: reid@decwrl.DEC.COM    -or- {ihnp4,ucbvax,decvax,sun}!decwrl!reid

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

