Title: CREAM OF BROCCOLI SOUP
Categories: Soups, Usenet
Yield: 4 servings
1 md Egg yolk, beaten
1/4 C  Flour (no lumps)
1/8 t  Cardamom
1/8 t  Mace
1 C  Cream, heavy
-(whipping cream
-preferred)
1/3 C  Gruyere cheese (fresh,
-grated fine)
1/3 C  Parmesan cheese (fresh,
-grated to powder)
2    Broccoli bunches, fresh
-(each about 3 in bottom
-diameter, banded)
1/2 lb Butter
6    Garlic cloves, chopped fine
-(less or more to taste)
1 T  Chervil (fresh or
-dried, finely chopped)
1 t  Salt
1 t  White pepper
3 C  Milk, full-cream
-(homogenized)
Cut broccoli into bite-size pieces.  Discard the hard stem pieces, but keep
tender leaves and stem parts.  Steam the cut broccoli for about 5-8
minutes, until just bright green in color. Do not overcook.

In a 10-inch enameled (non-metal) skillet, heat about 6 oz of butter until
melted.  Add chopped garlic and wait until butter is hot enough to cook in.
Add steamed broccoli, then chervil to the skillet.  Lightly salt the
broccoli. Cover and cook over medium-low heat, stirring occasionally with a
wooden spoon, for another 5-10 minutes or until the broccoli turns a darker
green color and becomes very soft.

Mash the broccoli right in the skillet until no large pieces remain.  Use a
potato masher or a strong wooden spoon.  Mash until there are no pieces
remaining that are too big to fit in a soup spoon.

While broccoli is cooking, add beaten egg yolk to about 2 cups of milk.

Put about 3 T butter into a 2-3 quart saucepan.  Use enamel or glass for
best soup flavor. Metal pans will make this soup bitter. Melt butter and
add flour. When the flour bubbles and starts to cook, add the egg/milk
mixture into the saucepan. Add the cardamom, mace and white pepper. Stir
contents of saucepan constantly with wooden spoon until thick. Lower the
cooking heat.

Empty the mashed broccoli mixture into the saucepan.  Stir until
well-mixed. Slowly stir in the remaining milk and the cream. As soon as the
soup becomes hot enough to cook again, add the grated cheeses.

Turn the heat down lower and simmer for about 5 more minutes, stirring to
allow the cheeses to melt and mix while the table is being set.  Serve
immediately and retire quickly so as not to be trampled by those who
smelled it cooking.

NOTES:

*  Addictive broccoli soup -- This rich soup is a real flavor treat for
everyone, even for people who don't normally eat broccoli.  It can be
served as the only course in a light meal. The soup is at its best when
served with hot, hard French finger rolls and freshly squeezed cool orange
juice.  It is my own original recipe. You will not have tried it anywhere
else except at my house. Enjoy. Yield: serves 4-6.

*  This recipe may be doubled, halved or whatever without penalty.  Vary
the amount of milk added the second time to change the soup thickness to
your own tastes. You also may use any fresh green vegetable as a substitute
for the broccoli. Asparagus tips, artichoke hearts and corn are especially
nice. Cook them in the same way as you did the broccoli. Use any leftover
butter on the hard French finger rolls. Warning: This soup is a mild
aphrodisiac when served as suggested and by candlelight. Use Bailey's Irish
Cream as a chaser.

: Difficulty:  moderate.
: Time:  30 minutes.

: George Robertson
: Fort Worth, Texas
: (ihnp4!sys1!sysvis!ger)

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

