Title: FAJITAS
Categories: Meats, Tex-mex, Usenet
Yield: 8 servings
16    Whole-wheat tortillas
2 C  Cheese, grated
3 C  Guacamole
3 lb Skirt steak
2 lg Yellow onions
2 T  Vegetable oil
----------------------------------MARINADE----------------------------------
2 T  Garlic, minced
1 C  Lime juice
1 T  Black pepper, ground
-------------------------------PICO DE GALLO-------------------------------
2 lg Tomatoes, chopped
1 t  Garlic, minced
1/2 C  Fresh cilantro, chopped
2    Scallions, chopped
-(green onions)
Combine marinade ingredients in a large glass baking dish.  Peel the fatty
membrane from both sides of the skirt steak.  This requires a very sharp
knife.  Add meat to marinade and marinate for at least 4 hours, preferably
overnight.  Keep it in the refrigerator if you marinate overnight.

MAKE THE PICO DE GALLO:  Combine all of the ingredients in a small serving
bowl.

Slice the yellow onions into 1/4-inch slices and cut each slice into a
semi- circle. Grill the meat until it is cooked slightly less than the way
you like it. Meanwhile, saute the onions in the oil until they are soft.
Use a large frying pan that will have enough room for the meat later.

After removing the meat from the grill, slice it into strips that are cut
across the grain.  The strips should be about 3-4 inches long and about 1/4
inch thick.  Add the strips to the onions in the pan and fry for another
minute or two.

Place on the table the pan full of meat, the bowl of pico de gallo, a
basket with the tortillas, a bowl with the guacamole, and a bowl with the
grated cheese. You may wish to provide picante sauce in addition.

NOTES:

*  Barbecued skirt steak marinated in lime:  a Tex-Mex favorite -- Fajitas
originated in Texas as a way to make cheap meat palatable.  Unfortunately,
it was too successful. It is still palatable, but because the word is out
that fajitas are so delicious, the meat isn't cheap any more. Because this
is not a traditional Mexican dish but a recent invention of Mexican
immigrants, there is no fixed formula for it. Many different kinds of
marinade are used; this one is adapted from a recipe given to a friend over
the phone by Tortuga's in Austin, Texas.

*  Each person makes her own fajita by taking a tortilla, spooning some of
the meat onto it, then adding her choice of each of the other ingredients
in whatever combination she wants.

*  Skirt steak is somewhat like flank steak:  somewhat tough and with a
very stringy texture. It is covered on both sides with a fatty membrane
that must be removed or the meat will be very tough. The key to good
fajitas is the proper removal of this membrane. Fresh-squeezed lime juice
is best, but bottled will do. Some people from out of state choose to put
sour cream on their fajitas.

: Difficulty:  easy.
: Time:  45 minutes preparation, several hours marinating, 10 minutes
cooking.
: Precision:  no need to measure.

: Elaine Rich
: Microelectronics and Computer Technology Co., Austin, Texas
: HI.Rich@MCC.COM

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

