Title: MEXICAN QUICHE
Categories: Entrees, Usenet
Yield: 3 servings
1/2 C  Monterey Jack cheese,
-grated
3    Eggs, beaten
1/3 C  Chives, chopped (fresh)
1/3 C  Sour cream
1/4 C  Salsa, green or red,
-but fairly hot (use
-taco sauce if nothing
-else is available)
1    Quiche shell,
-9 or 10 inches
1/2 lb Shrimp (large),
-about 12-14, peeled
-and deveined
1/2 C  Green chilies, chopped
-(Ortegas, not jalapenos)
5 oz Cream, light
1/2 C  Colby cheese, grated
Preheat oven to 425 degrees F.  Bring about 1 quart of water to the boil in
a saucepan. Add the shrimp and cook for 2 minutes or until they loose their
raw look, no more. Drain the shrimp in a colander. Reserve 6 nice-looking
shrimp for later. Chop the rest.

Spread the chopped shrimp over the bottom of the quiche shell.  Use half
the chilies to make a layer over the shrimp, then a layer of Jack cheese,
another layer of chilies and a layer of Colby. Spread things evenly.

Mix cream, eggs, chives and a little salt (if you want) in a bowl; beat to
blend.  Pour this into the quiche shell; it shouldn't overflow.

Place the quiche on a baking sheet and bake for 15 minutes at 425 degrees
F. Reduce the heat to 300 degrees F. and bake about 35 minutes longer, or
until the filling is set. Remove quiche from oven; let it cool for 15
minutes.

Spoon about 6 T of sour cream in round spots around the top of the quiche.
Dip each of the reserved shrimp into the salsa and then put them on the
spots of sour cream. Spoon the left-over salsa on top of the shrimp. Cut
into six wedges and serve.

NOTES:

*  Shrimp quiche in a Mexican style -- I found this recipe in the New York
Times magazine a while back, called "Dave and Janis Murray's Mexican
Quiche." It's not hard to make and it's quite good.

*  This goes well with a salad and a white wine strong enough to stand up
to the salsa. If you serve bread, you might be able to feed six people;
otherwise, count on feeding 3 or 4.

*  For the quiche shell, see a French cookbook, or buy a frozen shell in
your market. The Monterey Jack cheese might be hard to grate. If so, then
just chop it into bits with a knife.

: Difficulty:  easy (except perhaps if you make your own pastry);
de-veining the shrimp is tedious but not difficult.

: Time:  30 minutes preparation, one hour to bake and cool.
: Precision:  Measure the filling ingredients.
:
: Jeffrey Mogul, Computer Science Department, Stanford University
{ucbvax,decvax}!decwrl!glacier!navajo!mogul,
:
mogul@Navajo.Stanford.EDU

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

