Title: PEPPER RAINBOW SOUP
Categories: Soups, Usenet
Yield: 6 servings
2 t  Chives
2    Egg yolks
2 T  Lemon juice
Salt and pepper,
-to taste
6 C  Chicken broth
1 md Onion, chopped
2 C  Rice, cooked
4    Bell peppers, in
-assorted colors
1/2 t  Savory
Bring the broth to a boil.  Cook the rice.

Chop the onion and saute the pieces until they are golden brown.  Add to
the broth. Add the savory and chives to the broth.

Clean the seeds and cores from the peppers and chop the cleaned peppers
into pieces. Set chopped peppers aside.

Add the rice to the broth and cook for 5 minutes.  Add the chopped peppers
to the boiling broth and simmer for 1 minute. Meanwhile, beat the egg yolks
in a 2-cup bowl.

Thicken the soup with the egg yolks by adding the hot soup to the beaten
yolks a little bit at a time, stirring constantly, until a cup or two of
soup has been added to the yolks. Dump this mixture back into the simmering
broth. Add the lemon juice. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Serve.

NOTES:

*  A light summer soup with multicolored peppers -- Every year in late
summer, produce counters fill with multicolored bell (capsicum) peppers.
Green bell peppers, red bell peppers, yellow bell peppers. Even purple bell
peppers. Creative chefs try hard to take advantage of the splash of colors,
and make rainbow salads or rainbow appetizers. Here is a different way to
rejoice in multicolored peppers: pepper soup. The peppers float to the top
of a light broth and artfully dodge your spoon as you try to eat them.
Yield:  Serves 6-8.

*  The thickening technique is identical to that used in avgolemono
recipes, which you can consult for more details.

*  The flavor and texture balance of the soup depends on the amount that
the peppers are cooked. The more you cook them, the more their flavor
exudes into the broth but the more they lose their texture. I find that
about 2 minutes in simmering broth is the right amount.

*  You can have fun with colored geometric patterns as you cut the peppers.
They don't have to be chunks.  You can cut the yellow peppers into circles
and the green peppers into long strips and the red peppers into cross
sections and the purple peppers into stocky triangles. Be creative. The
colored shapes will float to the top of the broth and play hide-and-seek
with each other.

: Difficulty:  moderate (egg yolk thickening and pepper cooking require
some practice).
: Time:  10 minutes preparation, 10 minutes cooking.
: Precision:  No need to measure.

: Brian Reid
: DEC Western Research Laboratory, Palo Alto, California, USA
: decwrl!reid  -or- reid@decwrl.dec.com

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

