Title: POTATO-CARROT KUGEL
Categories: Vegetables, Entrees, Jewish, Usenet
Yield: 4 servings
1 1/2 t  Salt
1 t  Sugar
4 T  Flour, all-purpose
1/2 t  Black pepper, ground
2 T  Parsley, chopped
Paprika
6 lg Potatoes, peeled
-(about 4 lb)
4    Carrots, peeled
1 lg Onion, peeled
2 md Eggs
4 T  Chicken fat, melted
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F.  Grease a pan that is about 8x8 inches.

Break one egg into blender; start blender at high speed.  Add half of
onion, three of the potatoes (cut up into about 1-inch pieces) and two of
the carrots (cut up into similar pieces). Blend till smooth. Empty blender
into large mixing bowl. Repeat with other egg and remainder of onion,
potatoes and carrots.

Stir in chicken fat, salt, sugar, flour, black pepper and parsley.  Pour
into pan, sprinkle top with paprika, and bake for 1 hour or until browned.

For a pareve version, substitute for the chicken fat about 4 tablespoons
vegetable oil, and for flavor, optionally substitute for the salt and sugar
about 1 tablespoon pareve imitation chicken soup mix (I use Croyden House
brand, made in USA).  It is supposedly pareve/kosher for Passover.  For
kosher l'pesach (Passover), use about 4 tablespoon matzo meal, plus about 1
tablespoon potato starch in place of the flour.

NOTES:

*  Kugel with potatoes and carrots -- I have adapted this recipe from a
recipe for "Blender potato kugel" by Marilyn Michelson in the "Temple
Emanuel Sisterhood Cook Book," compiled 1968 (no copyright notice),
Baltimore, Maryland. The carrot part is my idea (it gives the kugel a
golden color and also a better flavor, I think). This dish smells
wonderful, tastes great, and is definitely filling.

With suitable modifications (see notes) this dish can be made kosher for
Passover.  Yield:  Serves 4-6.

: Difficulty:  easy.
: Time:  15 minutes preparation, 1 hour cooking.
: Precision:  approximate measurement OK.

: Dan Levy
: AT&T Computer Systems Division, Skokie, Illinois, USA
: {akgua,homxb,ihnp4,ltuxa,mvuxa,vax135}!ttrdc!ttrda!levy

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

