Title: SCRAPPLE
Categories: Breakfast, Usenet
Yield: 1 batch
1/4 t  Thyme, ground fine
1/4 t  Cayenne
2 lb Chicken parts
1    Onion, chopped
6    Peppercorns (cracked)
3 C  Chicken broth
1 1/3 C  Cornmeal (yellow)
1 T  Flour
1 1/2 t  Salt
1/4 t  Sage, ground fine
Bring the chicken broth to a boil; add chopped onion and peppercorns.  Add
chicken and cook until the meat falls off the bones (about 1 hour).

Strain the cooked chicken out of the broth and save the broth.  Remove the
bones and inedible parts from the cooked chicken, then chop or grind the
cooked meat into fine pieces.  Be careful if you use a food processor, so
that you don't puree the meat.

Simmer the chicken broth in a large pan.  Mix cornmeal, flour, salt, thyme,
sage and cayenne with about 1 cup of cold water.  Stir well.  Now slowly
stir this mixture into the simmering broth.

Add the cooked, ground chicken to the simmering pot.  Simmer and stir for
about 5 minutes.  Pour hot mixture into well-greased loaf pans.  Chill
until firm. To serve: remove from pan, cut into slices, roll in flour or
cornmeal, and fry in a greased frying pan.

NOTES:

*  Eastern-style scrapple (a breakfast food like sausage) -- I grew up in
Maryland, and in Maryland people eat scrapple for breakfast.  Among my
schoolmates, the story was that if you ever found out what was in
commercial scrapple you would stop eating it, and I did stop eating it for
many years. But now I know how to make my own. I got this recipe from the
University of Maryland poultry farming people, though I have added more
seasonings because they seem to like blander foods than I do. Yield: serves
6 hungry farmers.

*  Vary the amount of salt in this recipe to suit your taste.  You can make
scrapple out of almost any meat, though chicken and pork are traditional.
For a different, and truly authentic Maryland taste, leave out the salt and
cayenne and substitute about 2 t of Old Bay seasoning.

*  A loaf of home-made scrapple will keep for 10 days in the refrigerator,
or it can be cut into slices and frozen.

: Difficulty:  easy.
: Time:  1 hour preparation and cooking, several hours cooling, 5 minutes
to fry.
: Precision:  no need to measure; approximate measurement OK.

: Carole Miller
: Steven Sutphen
: University of Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

