Title: SETTIN' 'ROUND BREAD
Categories: Breads, Usenet
Yield: 2 loaves
1 1/2 t  Honey
1/8 t  Cinnamon, ground
1/2 C  Rolled oats
1/2 C  Cornmeal
1/4 C  Bran
1/4 C  Cracked wheat
1/4 C  Buckwheat
1/2 C  Soy flour
1 C  Rye flour
2 1/2 C  Whole wheat flour
3 C  White flour
Butter
1/4 C  Water
-(at 105 degrees)
1/3 C  Turbinado sugar
-(most any sugar will
-do, though)
2 pk Yeast (dry), active
1/4 C  Butter
1/4 C  Shortening
1 1/2 C  Water
1/2 C  Milk
1 lg Egg
1 C  Dry milk, non-fat
1 1/2 t  Salt
Melt the shortening and the butter.  Let them cool a bit, so as not to kill
the yeast when they are added to the dough.  If you want to scald the milk,
do so, and also let it cool (it is common practice to scald milk before
baking with it, though I never do.)

Dissolve the yeast and sugar in the 1/4 cup of lukewarm water.

Mix the cinnamon, oats, corn meal, bran, cracked wheat, buckwheat, soy
flour and rye flour. Add the rest of the water, the milk, butter,
shortening, egg and honey, and mix well. Stir in the dissolved yeast
mixture.  Mix in the salt and the whole wheat flour.

Stir in the white flour, about 1/2 cup at a time, until the mixture is
stiff enough to knead. You'll probably have about half of it left.

Remove the dough from the mixing bowl, onto a floured surface.  Knead the
dough, adding more white flour as necessary to keep the dough workable.
Knead the dough until it is smooth and elastic, about ten minutes. It's
okay if you end up using less than or more than the three cups of white
flour; just use whatever it takes.

Put the dough back into a bowl that's been very lightly greased.  Let it
rise, covered, in a still, warm place (around 85 degrees F. is best, though
room temperature will work) for 45 minutes, or until it has doubled in
bulk.

Punch the dough down, divide in half, shape into loaves and place each half
into a loaf pan which has been very lightly greased.  Let rise again, for
another 45 minutes, in a still, warm place, until the loaves have about
doubled in bulk.

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. as the bread finishes rising.  Bake the
bread for 35-40 minutes, until it sounds hollow when tapped.  Remove from
the loaf pans and rub the top of the loaves with some butter to give them a
nice, soft, chewy crust.

NOTES:

*  A 7-grain bread for toasting or eating plain -- This bread was first
made from whatever was settin' 'round the kitchen when I started baking. It
has a wonderful texture and flavor. Yield: 2 large loaves.

: Difficulty:  moderate.
: Time:  about 3 hours (half of it rising time).
: Precision:  approximate measurement OK.

: Alan M.  Marcum
: Sun Microsystems, Mountain View, California
: sun!nescorna!marcum

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

