Title: SPINACH LASAGNA
Categories: Pasta, Usenet
Yield: 6 servings
16 oz Mozzarella cheese
-(or less)
16 oz Other cheese
-(cheddar, swiss, jack,
-etc.; can use less)
1/2 C  Parsley (optional)
12 oz Spinach (or less)
3    Eggs
2 lb Lasagna noodles
-(approximately 2 boxes)
Italian spices, to taste
32 oz Tomato sauce
1 lb Tomatoes, canned
2 md Onions (or less)
8    Garlic cloves
8 oz Black olives,
-drained (optional)
8 oz Green olives,
-drained (optional)
8 oz Mushrooms (optional)
1 lg Broccoli bunch
-(optional)
16 oz Cottage cheese
SAUCE:  Put tomatoes and tomato sauce in large pot over low heat.  Press
garlic, add.  Chop onions, olives, mushrooms and broccoli, add.  Add spices
to taste. Simmer covered over low heat until the whole tomatoes have merged
with the rest of the sauce and you can no longer tell where one begins and
the other ends.

CHEESE:  Grate the cheeses and mix.  Add eggs, parsley and spinach, mix
well.

BUILDING THE LASAGNA:  In a lasagna pan, put in just enough sauce  to cover
the bottom of the pan.  Make a layer of noodles.  Using about half of the
available cheese mixture, make a layer of cheese.  Another layer of
noodles. Cover the noodles with sauce, the important thing being to make
sure all noodles have at least some sauce on them. Another layer of
noodles.  Use the rest of the cheese mixture and make a layer of cheese.
Put down the  last layer of noodles, then use the remaining amount of
sauce, or as much as possible, and cover the noodles in sauce. Bake at 375
degrees F. for 45 minutes.

NOTES:

*  Classic spinach lasagna -- This recipe was posted to usenet by
sridhar@spt.tek.com, who got it from Sean Gilley (slg@e.ms.uky.edu).  I
modified it slightly to my tastes (naturally).  Yield:  Serves 6-8.

*  The lasagna noodles are uncooked when you build the lasagna.  Be stingy
with the sauce, if you aren't, you'll end up short at the end where you
need it most.

*  If you do things as specified here, you will end up with a lasagna
layered as (s-n-c-n-s-n-c-n-s), (sauce, noodles, cheese, etc.) but some
prefer the heretic's way: (c-n-s-c-n-s-c-n-s)

: Difficulty:  moderate.
: Time:  2-3 hours.
: Precision:  Approximate measurement OK.

: Original recipe by Sean Gilley, Mathematical Sciences, U of Kentucky
: slg@e.ms.uky.edu

: Posted by S.Sridhar, Tektronix Inc., Portland, Oregon
: sridhar@spt.tek.com

: Submitted by Dave Van't Hof, VLSI Cad, MIPS Computer Systems, Inc.,
Sunnyvale, Calif, USA
: vanthof@mips.com
: Research Laboratory, Palo Alto, California, USA
: decwrl!reid  -or- reid@decwrl.dec.com

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

