Title: STOLLEN
Categories: Breads, German, Christmas, Usenet
Yield: 1 batch
1 C  Almonds (blanched),
-chopped
1/2 C  Citronat (candied
-lemon peel), cut
-into small pieces
1/2 C  Orangenat (candied
-orange peel), cut
-into small pieces
1/2 C  Raisins
1/4 oz Yeast (dried), active
-(1 package)
3/4 C  Water, warm
1/2 C  Sugar, granulated
3 lg Eggs
1    Egg yolk
1/2 C  Butter, soft
3 1/2 C  Flour
1 T  Lemon peel, grated
Dissolve the yeast in the water and proof it.  Add the sugar, eggs, egg
yolk, butter and half of the flour. Beat for 10 minutes. Blend in the
remaining flour, nuts, fruits and peel. Let rise about 1 1/2 hours, until
doubled. Punch down, cover and refrigerate overnight.

Knead the dough.  Roll into one or two rectangles, butter it, and fold over
the edges to make a rolled loaf.  Place on a greased cookie sheet with the
folded edges down.  Spread with a combination of 1 egg white and about 1 T
water.  Let rise until doubled in size (45 to 60 minutes).  Bake 30-35
minutes at 375 degrees F. until golden brown.

NOTES:

*  Traditional German Christmas bread -- Germans traditionally eat Stollen
around Christmas time.  This recipe comes from someone I went to school
with. She, and her parents, who are from southern Germany, recommended it
as quite an authentic recipe. It is indeed a very tasty and rich bread.
Makes 1 large or 2 small loaves.

*  My loaves of stollen come out somewhat wide and short.  Some
traditionalists make them long and narrow.  You can also make them in
normal bread pans instead of on cookies sheets, in which case you should
increase the baking time somewhat.

: Difficulty:  moderate.
: Time:  hand-on time:  30 minutes;  rising times:  1 1/2 hours + overnight
+ 1 hour; baking time: 30-35 minutes.
: Precision:  measure the ingredients, though you can experiment with the
fruits and nuts.

: Aviva Garrett
: Santa Cruz, California, USA
: Excelan, Inc., San Jose, California
: {ucbvax!mtxinu ihnp4!cae780}!excelan!aviva

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

