Title: WHITE OSSO BUCCO
Categories: Meats, Usenet
Yield: 4 servings
-(or less)
1    Lemon
8 T  Parsley (fresh),
-chopped fine
Flour, salt and pepper
8 sl Veal shank, each about
-1 1/2 - 2 inches thick
1/4 C  Olive oil
1/3 C  Butter, unsalted
3 C  White wine, dry
Dredge the veal shank pieces well in flour.  In a large skillet with high
sides, heat the olive oil and butter over moderately high heat until the
butter stops foaming.  If you do not have a skillet large enough to
accommodate all of the meat in a single layer, use two smaller pans.

Add the veal shanks to the skillet and arrange in a single layer.  Cook
over moderately high heat until browned on one side. Add a generous amount
of salt and pepper. Turn meat and brown the other side, and add salt and
pepper.

Add enough white wine to nearly, but not quite, cover the meat.  Reduce
heat to a barely bubbling simmer. Cover with a well-fitting lid. Cook at a
simmer for 2 1/2 hours.

Peel a thin layer of rind from the lemon.  (I find that a vegetable peeler
gives me a nice thin layer of rind.)  Cut rind into fine strips.

Remove veal shanks to a warm plate.  The meat will be falling-off-the-bone
tender, so a wide spatula is advised for this step to keep each shank
intact. Keep meat warm through the next several steps.

Add lemon peel and chopped parsley to the sauce and place over high heat.
Boil vigorously for several minutes to reduce sauce slightly.  Stir to
loosen any brown bits from the pan and then frequently to prevent burning.

Remove from heat and return shanks to skillet.  Spoon sauce over shanks and
replace skillet lid.  Let sit for 3-5 minutes to reheat shanks.  Serve with
sauce over shanks.

NOTES:

*  Braised veal shanks in white wine -- This recipe is adapted from
Marcella Hazan's "More Classic Italian Cooking." Simple to make, this dish
beats any "traditional" osso bucco with tomatoes and vegetables that I've
had in the U.S. or Italy.

*  Veal shanks are a relatively inexpensive cut of meat.  If possible, ask
your butcher to use hind shanks which have more meat than do the forelegs.
The key to this dish is the quality of the ingredients.  I use the best
olive oil (Italian, virgin first-press, cold-press) and table quality dry
white wine (fume or sauvignon blanc) I can find at a reasonable price.

*  For dredging, rather than using a plate of flour, I put about 2/3 cup
flour in a plastic bag, put in the shanks one at a time, and shake to
thoroughly cover all sides of the meat with flour.

*  The flavor of the dish is light so I usually serve with a home-made
pasta dish with a cream-based sauce and a steamed green vegetable. Be sure
to have plenty of crusty bread on hand to soak up the sauce. For those who
like the marrow, don't forget to spoon it out of the shanks.

: Difficulty:  moderate.
: Time:  30 minutes preparation, 3 hours cooking.
: Precision:  approximate measurement OK.

: Pamela McGarvey
: UCLA Comprehensive Epilepsy Program
: {ihnp4!sdcrdcf,ucbvax!ucla-cs,hao}!cepu!pam

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

