Title: YOGURT CHICKEN
Categories: Poultry, Usenet
Yield: 4 servings
2 t  Masala seasoning
-(see note)
2 C  Yogurt, plain
1/4 C  Butter, clarified
2 t  Salt (or less
-to taste)
1    Frying chicken
1/4 C  Vegetable oil
3 md Onions
2    Garlic cloves
1 t  Cayenne (red pepper)
1 T  Coriander
-(or less to taste)
First prepare the sauce:  Slice or chop the onions.  Using a large heavy
frying pan that has a lid, saute the onions in the oil.  When they are
translucent and beginning to brown, add the garlic.  When its moisture
evaporates, add the cayenne, coriander and masala seasoning.  Lower heat
and simmer 7 minutes, partly covered. Remove from heat and let it cool a
bit.

Cut the chicken into chunks.  If you are feeling decadent, then remove the
bones from the chicken to make this a boneless-chicken dish.

Puree the onion-and-spice mixture in your food processor.  Don't make it
into baby food, but make sure there are no stringy pieces of onion left in
it.

Over medium-high heat, heat the clarified butter until it starts to smoke,
then dump in the  cut-up chicken all at once.  Stir continuously for 2
minutes, then saute for 3 more minutes, stirring occasionally.

Add the onion-and-spice pure to the cooking chicken.  Add salt.  Stir the
mixture until it starts to bubble, then lower heat, cover and simmer for 30
minutes.  Let cool until ready to serve.  The longer you wait, the better
it will taste, up to a day or two.

Cook some rice to go with it.  Reheat over low heat and serve.

NOTES:

*  An Indian-style chicken dish with yogurt and red pepper -- This
fail-safe recipe yields a delicious Indian-style chicken dish. Serve it
with rice and you have a meal. It makes wonderful leftovers, in fact, it
tastes much better as leftovers than it does when cooked fresh.

*  Masala seasoning is an Indian "general-purpose" seasoning.  Serious
Indian cooks make their own, and no two are quite the same. The word masala
means something like "blend of spices." Since this dish isn't trying to be
authentically Indian, you can use most any store-bought mixture that you
like, including "Tandoori" mixtures, "curry powders," etc. If you want to
make your own, try some mixture of cardamom seeds, cinnamon, cloves,
pepper, cumin and coriander, suitably mixed and ground.

*  If you don't want to use clarified butter, you can use any cooking oil.

: Difficulty:  easy.
: Time:  1/2 hour preparation, 1/2 hour cooking, 1-24 hours sitting.
: Precision:  No need to measure, but be respectful of cayenne.
:
: Brian Reid   decwrl!glacier!reid
reid@SU-Glacier.ARPA
: Stanford

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

