Title: Challah
Categories: Breads
Yield: 1 servings
Cooled
6    To 7 cups all-purpose flour
-or bread flour
1    Egg beaten with 2 Tbs milk
-or cream (glaze)
Poppy seeds or sesame seeds
1/2 c  Sugar
2    Envelopes dry yeast
1 tb Salt
1 3/4 c  Warm water (105 - 115 F)
4    Eggs, room temperature
1/2 c  (1 stick) unsalted butter or
-margarine, melted and
Makes 1 large or 2 medium braids

Combine sugar, yeast and salt in large bowl.  Whisk in water, eggs and
butter.  Add 3 cups flour and whisk until smooth, about 3 minutes. Using
wooden spoon, mix in enough remaining flour 1/2 cup at a time to form soft
dough.  Knead on floured surface until dough is satiny, abut 10 minutes,
kneading in more flour if sticky.

Grease large bowl.  Add dough, turning to coat entire surface. Cover bowl
with towel.  Let rise in warm draft-free area until doubled, about 1 1/4
hours.

Grease large baking sheet.  Gently knead dough on lightly floured surface
until deflated.  For large loaf:  Cut off 1/3 of dough.* cover both pieces
with towel and let rest 10 minutes to relax gluten. Divide larger piece of
dough into 3 pieces.  Roll each into 14-inch rope. Braid together, working
from middle to ends. Pinch ends together. Place on prepared pan, tucking
ends under. Cut remaining dough into 3 pieces; roll each into 9-inch rope.
Braid together.  Set smaller braid atop larger.  Cover with waxed paper or
towel.  Let rise in warm draft-free area until doubled, about 45 minutes.

Preheat oven to 350 F.  Brush dough with egg glaze and sprinkle with poppy
seeds.  Bake until golden brown and bread sounds hollow ehen tapped on
bottom, about 50 minutes.  Immediately transfer to rack and cool.

* For 2 medium loaves, cut dough in half.  Divide each half into 3 pieces.
Roll each piece into 8-inch rope.  Form 2 braids. Transfer to 2 greased
pans and let rise as above.  Bake about 45 minutes.

Variation:  Use 1 1/2 to 3 1/2 cups whole wheat flour to replace equal
amount of all-purpose flour.  Substitute honey for sugar. Dough may take a
little longer to rise.

Bon Appetit

