Title: Cook Up an Oriental Hot Pot
Categories: Appetizers, Beef, Chinese
Yield: 4 servings
-chestnuts,
Drained and thinly sliced
1 1/2 c  Halved fresh mushrooms
4 c  Small spinach leaves (stems
-removed)
14 oz Cans (5 1/4 cups) chicken
-broth
3    Chicken bouillon cubes
1 tb Monosodium glutamate
1/2 tb Grated gingerroot or 1/2
-teaspoon ground ginger
1 lb Raw shrimp, peeled and
-deveined
2    Chicken breasts, skinned,
-boned, and sliced very
-thin, across grain
1/2 lb Beef sirloin sliced very
-thin, across grain
1/2    Head Chinese cabbage or 1
-lettuce heart, coarsely
-cubed
1 c  Cubed egg plant or 1 5-ounce
-can (2/3 cup) water
Midnight supper, perhaps for New Year's Eve or after the show, can be
exotic in a hurry. The foods are sliced ahead, the sauces made, then all
stowed in the refrigerator. When guests are hungry, the hostess simply
heats the broth and sets out the makings.

Genghis Khan hot pot is another name for this Chinese specialty. Or maybe
you've seen it on restaurant menus as volcano soup. We show an
honest-to-goodness Mongolian cooker with a charcoal chimney in the center,
but any chafing dish or electric skillet will do as well.

What's cooking. Everything on the tray is raw, of course--chunks of
eggplant, crosscut strips of sirloin, halved mushrooms, thin slices of
chicken breast, squares of Chinese cabbage, shucked shrimp. Fresh spinach
to simmer along with the other foods is ready in the big red bowl. The
broth is chicken bouillon that boasts a faint overtone of ginger.
Individual bowls of fluffy rice are served at the same time as Hot Pot.

The how-to. You pick out a few choice tidbits at a time and drop them from
chopsticks, bamboo tongs, or fork into the lazily bubbling broth. In a few
minutes, fish them out to dip into zesty sauces on your plate, like Peanut
or Red Sauce, Chinese Mustard or Ginger Soy.

Traditionalists poach eggs in the broth when it has taken on subtle flavor
from the foods that have simmered in it. At the very last, the hostess may
ladle the broth as a soup. It's delicious! Dessert? Skip it, or serve a
fruit bowl and candied ginger with coffee or tea.

Etiquette: Use one set of chopsticks for cooking and fishing out morsels
from Hot Pot, use a second set for eating. If only one set is provided for
each guest, simply reverse your chopsticks (large ends down) when you cook
or help yourself to food.

Oriental Hot Pot

Chinese Mustard Ginger Soy Peanut Sauce Red Sauce Hot cooked rice

Shortly before cooking time arrange the meats and vegetables on large tray
or platter; use a bowl for spinach. Set out dunking sauces. Provide Bamboo
tongs, chopsticks or long-handled forks as cooking tools for guests.

Heat chicken broth in electric skillet or chafing dish (or use Mongolian
cooker-- directions follow). Add bouillon cubes to hot broth and stir to
dissolve; add monosodium glutamate and ginger. Heat to simmering. For
cooking have broth barely bubbling. Each Guest picks up desired foods with
chopsticks or whatever, drops them into the bubbling broth. When his
tidbits are cooked, he lifts them out and dips into the sauces on his
plate. Serve with rice. Makes 4 servings.

To use Mongolian cooker, fill chimney of cooker with charcoal and add
charcoal starter. Pour cold chicken broth into cooker. Cover cooker, then
light charcoal. When broth is hot, continue as above.

