Title: Sundae Pies (Crust Recipes, Ice Cream Fillings)
Categories: Ice cream
Yield: 6 servings
-unsweetened chocolate,
2    Or 3 kinds. Then garnish
-with sprinkling of grated
Pick a Crust:

SPICY-PASTRY CRUST: To 1/2 pkg. piecrust mix, add 2 tablesp. sugar and 1
teasp. cinnamon. Make into 8" or 9" pie shell as package directs- bake. Or
make favorite pastry and bake in 8" or 9" pie shell.

COCONUT-CHOCOLATE CRUST: In double boiler, melt 2 sq. unsweetened chocolate
with 2 tablesp. butter or margarine- blend. Stir in 2/3 cup sifted
confectioners, sugar mixed with 2 tablesp. hot milk; mix in 1 1/2 cups
snipped shredded coconut. Press to bottom and sides of greased 8" pie
plate. Refrigerate to make firm. (Let stand at room temperature 15 min.
before filling.)

GRAHAM-CRACKER CRUST: Mix 1 1/3 cups graham-cracker crumbs with 1/4 cup
granulated sugar and 1/4 cup soft butter or margarine until crumbly. Press
to bottom and sides of 9" pie plate. Bake at 375ø F. 8 min.

GINGERSNAP CRUST: Mix 1 1/3 cups gingersnap crumbs with 6 tablesp. soft
butter or margarine until crumbly. Press to bottom, sides, 9" pie plate.
Bake at 375ø F. 8 min.

CHOCOLATE-CRUMB CRUST: Mix 1 1/3 cups chocolate-wafer crumbs with 3
tablesp. soft butter or margarine until crumbly. Press to bottom and sides
of 9" pie plate. Bake at 375ø F. 8 min.

MERINGUE CRUST: Sift 1/2 cup granulated sugar with 1/8 teasp. cream of
tartar. Beat 2 egg whites until stiff but not dry; gradually add sugar,
continuing to beat until stiff and glossy. Use to line bottom and sides of
well-greased 9" pie plate (up to but not on rim), hollowing out center to
make bottom crust about 1/4" thick. Bake at 275ø F. 1 hr. Cool.

Fill with Ice Cream:

At serving time, heap crust shell with ice cream that's complementary in
color and flavor (1 to 2 pt. for 8" shell- 2 to 3 pt. for 9" shell). Or use
coconut, or nuts.

Or try:

Chocolate-Crumb Crust, vanilla ice cream, chocolate sauce, whipped cream

Gingersnap Crust, vanilla ice cream, canned whole-cranberry sauce

Graham-Cracker Crust, peach ice cream, slivered almonds or Melba Sauce

Spicy-Pastry Crust, coffee ice cream, butterscotch sauce, shaved chocolate

Coconut-Chocolate Crust, cherry-vanilla ice cream

Meringue Crust, vanilla ice cream, sliced strawberries

BAKED-ALASKA PIE

Choose 9" Spicy-Pastry, Graham-Cracker, Gingersnap, or Chocolate-Crumb
Crust (above). Refrigerate until well chilled. Start heating oven to 500ø
F. Make meringue as in Step 2 of Baked Alaska (page 101). Working quickly,
fill shell well with 1 qt. firm ice cream. Cover entire surface of ice
cream with meringue. Bake about 2 min., or until delicate brown. Serve at
once.

