Title: ITALIAN MEATBALL SANDWICH
Categories: None
Yield: 1 Servings
MMMMM-------------------------MEATBALLS------------------------------
1 lb Ground round or ground chuck
1/2 lb Ground pork
1 1/2 c  Grated cheese - parmesan or
-Romano or a hard, well aged
-goat cheese
2 c  Fine dry bread crumbs
One good handful dried
-crushed parsley
2    Eggs
3/4 c  Milk
Salt
Pepper
Garlic salt if you want
MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
1 qt Tomato sauce
1 sm Can tomato paste
1 pt Whole tomatoes, crushed
Red wine
Olive oil
Salt pork
Salt, pepper, garlic salt
-to taste
Dry sweet basil
Dry marjoram
1 sm Onion - optional
4    Cloves garlic, minced
(optional ingredients: cubed eggplant, mushrooms, fresh sweet red
pepper pieces, dried crushed hot red chili, black Italian
olives-chopped, green Greek olives-chopped---and anything else you
can think of or want)

Prepare the sauce:  Put 2 tbsp of olive oil in a heavy large pot. Cut
two slices from the salt pork about 1/4" thick each and trim off the
rind (skin).  Cut up the salt pork into small pieces. Heat up the
olive oil to medium-high and add the salt pork.  It should just
barely sizzle. Finely chop up the onion and add it to the pot. Saute
until the onion becomes translucent.  Add the minced garlic and saute
just until the garlic begins to turn golden.  At this point you can
add any of the optional stuff--chop it up to small pieces and stir
the mixture in the pot well. Add one good handful of crushed dried
basil, 1 medium handful of crushed dried marjoram and stir everything
well. Saute all for about 3-4 minutes. Add the can of tomato paste.
Clean the can out with the wine and add two cans of the wine. Stir
well and add the whole tomatoes. Salt, pepper, and garlic salt to
taste and let this cook for about 10 minutes until everything is
mixed well and bubbly. Add the sauce--adjust the seasonings if you
like. Reduce the heat to simmer and let cook for about 1 hour.

Prepare the meatballs: Place all ingredients, except the milk, in a
large bowl and mix well.  If the mixture seems to be very sticky add
1/2 cup milk and mix well again. We like very soft meatballs and the
more milk you add the softer the final product will be, so you will
have to decide how soft you want the meatball to be and adjust the
milk. I would add all of it. Mix well.  Form a small portion of the
meat mixture into a ball about 2" in diameter.  Form the rest of the
meatballs in the same manner. An ice cream scoop makes them just
about the right size.

You can either fry or bake the meatball (add lots of flavor) or you
can broil it (removes most of grease and fate). Whichever method you
use, make sure you cook them to a nice crust on the outside. Drop the
meatballs into the sauce and simmer for one more hour. Add a little
water to the sauce if it seems to be real thick.

To make the sandwich - use a crusty roll--hard roll (crusty on the
outside, soft on the inside)--slice in half. Cut one or two meatballs
in half and put on one slice of the roll. Spoon a little sauce over
all, sprinkle with some Italian cheese (parmesan or romano) add a hot
roasted chili pepper or a sweet roasted pimento--put the other half
of the roll on top. Open mouth very wide and bite into sandwich.
Enjoy!

Diane dmferrell@happy.uccs.edu

