Title: JALAPENO CHEESE BREAD & RUSTIC BREAD STICK
Categories: Bread
Yield: 2 Servings
1    2  1/4 ounce  active dry
Yeast or 2 3/5-ounce cakes
Fresh
1 tb Sugar
2 1/4 c  Lukewarm water
1/4 c  Oil or unsalted butter,
Melted
1 c  Whole wheat flour
5 c  Unbleached all-purpose
Flour
1 tb Salt
4    Jalapeno chiles
Seeded/finely chopped
2 c  Shredded sharp cheddar
Cheese (1/2 pound)
EGG GLAZE
1    Egg
1 tb Water
Cornmeal for sprinkling
1.  Sprinkle the dry yeast or crumble the fresh yeast and sugar Over
1/2 cup of the lukewarm water in a cup or small bowl. Leave it for 10
minutes, then stir to dissolve the yeast. Add the remaining water and
oil. 2. Sift the flours together into a large mixing bowl. Set aside
2 cups of the mixture. Add the salt to the remaining mixture and make
a well in center. Pour the yeast mixture into the well, add the
chopped chiles, and mix briefly. 3. Gradually stir in the reserved
flour, 1/2 cup at a time, until the dough loses its stickiness and
can be kneaded easily. Knead the dough thoroughly on a floured
surface until it is smooth and elastic, flouring the surface
occasionally if the dough sticks to it. Transfer the dough to an
oiled bowl and turn it over to oil its entire surface. Cover with a
damp cloth and let it rise in a warm place for about 1-1/2 hours or
until doubled in volume. Punch down the dough and let it rest, about
5 minutes, covered with a cloth. (This allows the dough to regain its
elasticity.) 4. Knead the dough again on a lightly floured surface.
Knead in the cheese by sprinkling it on the bread all at once and
kneading until distributed. 5. Grease two 9- by 5-inch loaf pans.
Divide the dough into 2 equal parts and on the floured surface roll
out each part to a smooth, cylindrical loaf about 9 inches long. Put
the loaves in the pans seam side down, slash the top lightly 3 times
with a serrated knife, cover with a damp cloth, and let rise in a
warm place for about 1 hour or until nearly doubled in volume. 6. For
the egg glaze, whisk the egg and water together until slightly foamy.
Brush the loaves with the egg glaze. Sprinkle lightly with cornmeal.
Preheat the oven to 375F. 7. Bake the loaves for about 15 minutes or
until they begin to brown. Reduce the temperature to 350F and
continue baking for another 45 minutes or until the bread sounds
hollow when tapped. Let the loaves cool on a rack. Serve lukewarm or
at room temperature.

ADVANCE Preparation: This bread is best on the day it is baked. NOTE:
If you're using a food processor to knead the dough, add the chiles
and cheese by hand so that the pieces stay intact.

NOTES : WHETHER YOU BAKE this in a loaf or make the rustic bread
sticks, you'll enjoy this spicy but not overpowering California-style
bread. The spiciness of the bread can be altered by increasing or
reducing the number of jalapeno chiles. This bread goes nicely with
frittata or scrambled eggs.

Scanned and formated by Brenda Adams ,<adamsfmle@aol.com> Posted to
mc-recipe 7/17/96 Recipe By
: The California Cook by Dianne Rossen Worthington

Date: Mon, 15 Jul 1996 14:00:51
From: Hp_walls@woco.Ohio.Gov
~0400 (

