Title: JAMBALAYA FRANK'S CAJUN
Categories: Jambalaya, Cajun, Creole
Yield: 1 Servings
1/2 c  Bacon drippings
OR margarine
1 lb Smoked sausage - diced
1/2 lb Andouille - diced
-(Polish Can be
-substituted)
1/2 lb Tasso
1/2 lb Bacon - crumbled
2 c  Chicken - julienned
-OR julienned turkey
2 lg Onions - coarsely chopped
1 md Bell pepper - chopped
6    Ribs celery - coarsely
-chopped
4    Clove garlic - finely minced
3 c  Rice - long grain
16 oz Rotel tomatoes  and hot
-peppers
2 c  Beef stock
2 ts Kitchen Bouquet
1/2 ts Thyme
2 ts Chili powder
-black pepper to taste
-cayenne pepper to taste
-salt to taste
2 lb Shrimp - peeled
12    Green onions - sliced
1/2 c  Parsley - minced
To make a really good pot of jambalaya, you're going to need a
well-seasoned black cast iron Dutch oven with a tight-fitting lid.
And for this recipe, an 8-quart pot is perfect!

So take the pot, put it on the burner over high heat, and pour in the
bacon drippings (or margarine).  Then toss in the smoked sausage,
andouille, tasso, and crumbled bacon and stir-fry the meats until the
smoked sausage turns light brown (it should take about 8 minutes or
so).

Now, drop in the julienned chicken and stir-fry it until every strip
loses its translucency (turns white). Then immediately add the
onions, bell pepper, celery and garlic, and reduce the heat to
medium-high, and cook the vegetables until they soften.

At this point, pour in the rice.  And you want to stir it thoroughly
into the seasoning vegetables and meats until every single grain is
moistened -- about 4 to 5 minutes.

Next, add the tomatoes, beef stock, Kitchen Bouquet, thyme and chili
powder, blend everything together well, and bring the mixture to a
slow boil.  When this happens, taste the liquids and season the dish
to taste with salt, black and cayenne pepper.  Just remember that
you're going to have to season it a little on the "heavy side"
because the rice will absorb much of the seasonings as it cooks, and
you still have a couple pounds of shrimp to mix in.  *So be sure to
taste carefully!* [I'd definitely add Tabasco for flavor, too.]

When everything is just right, reduce the heat as low as it will go,
put the lid on the pot, and simmer the jambalaya for about an hour.
This "slow cooking" process allows each grain of rice to cook evenly,
puff properly, and pick up the combination of flavors.  If the heat
is too high, the rice will stick to the bottom of the pot and turn
mushy.

Then when the jambalaya is done, about 5 minutes before you're ready
to eat, stir in the raw shrimp, green onions, and parsley, put the
lid back on the pot, and continue to simmer the jambalaya over *low
heat* until the shrimp turn pink.

I suggest that before you serve the dish, you fluff the rice
slightly. I also suggest that you serve the dish alongside crispy
butter French bread and ice-cold beer.

CHEF'S HINTS: 1. Under no circumstances should you remove the cover
from the pot during the slow-cooking process. If you do, you'll
release steam you need to cook the rice. Your rice will turn out hard
in the center and your jambalaya will be dry instead of moist. Don't
peek in the pot! 2. If you don't feel that your stove-top will cook
the jambalaya slowly enough, put the cover on the pot (after you mix
the liquids in), set your oven at 300F, put the pot into the oven,
and bake the dish for about 45 minutes. It will come out perfect!

From "Frank Davis Cooks Naturally N'Awlins" by Frank Davis.

From Michelle Bass From: Rich Harper Date: 12 Feb 94

Date: 03-18-94
From: Dale Shipp

