Title: JELLIED TURKEY-VEGETABLE SALAD (USDA)
Categories: Freezes wel, Usda
Yield: 24 Servings
1/4 c  Unflavored gelatin
1 c  Cold water
42 oz Cream of celery soup,
Condensed -- 4 (10 1/2-oz)
Cans
2 1/2 lb Cooked turkey, finely diced
(8 cups)
40 oz Frozen mixed vegetables --
Cooked
2 c  Salad dressing
Line four 8x8x2-inch baking pans with heat-resistant freezer wrap.
Allow enough extra wrap to fold over top. Use one pan for each six
servings or one-fourth of the recipe. Do not line pans for food to be
served without freezing.

Soften gelatin in cold wataer.  Heat coup.  Add gelatin to soup. Stir
until gelatin is dissolved. Add turkey, vegetables, and salad
dressing. Mix gently. Pour one-fourth of mixture into each pan. Chill
until firm.

TO SERVE WITHOUT FREEZING:  Serve on crisp salad greens.

TO FREEZE:  Complete wrapping by pulling paper up over top of food.
Put edges of wrap together and fold several times so paper lies
directly on top of food. Fold ends of freezer wrap over the top and
seal with freezer tape. Label with name of food, date of freezing,
and last date the food should be used for best eating quality (about
6 months). Freeze immediately for 10 to 12 hours before removing
packages from the pans.

TO THAW FROZEN SALAD:  Remove freezer wrap.  Place food in baking
pan. Thaw in refrigerator for about 24 hours. Serve on crisp salad
greens.

~ - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

Serving Ideas : Crisp salad greens

NOTES : This recipe is for 24 servings (about 2/3 cups each).
Directions are given for dividing the prepared food into four parts
of six servings each.  One part may be completely cooked and served
at the time of preparation.  The remaining parts may be frozen.

"Freezing Combination Main Dishes"  by Meredith Robinson and Lois
Fulton (Consumer and Food Economics Institute, Agriculture Research
Service) USDA Home and Garden Bulletin No. 40, 1973 (Stock Number
0100-02712). MasterCook electronic format by Rosie Winters. Nutr.
Assoc. : 3511 0 0 2848 0 883

: Freezing Combination Main Dishes (Robinson & Fulton,
Recipe By
1973)

