Title: JERK PORK TENDERLOIN~ BLACK BEANS~PINEAPPLE-C
Categories: Pork
Yield: 4 Servings
1    Whole pork tenderloin --
About 1#
Rubbed with Jerk Seasoning
(recipe follows)
2    15oz cans
Drained
1 sm Red onion -- chopped
1 tb Chili powder
2 ts Ground cumin
Vegetable oil
1/4 c  Chopped fresh coriander --
Also called cilantro
2 tb Lime juice
Salt to taste
8    6" tortillas -- warmed
Pineapple-Cucumber Salsa:
1    20oz can
1 sm Cucumber
Peeled, seeded and diced
2 tb Rice vinegar
2 tb Olive oil
1/8 ts Cayenne pepper
1    Jalapeno pepper -- seeded
And diced
1 tb Coarsely ground black
Pepper
4 tb Fresh coriander -- finely
Chopped
(also called cilantro)
Jerk Seasoning:*
1 tb Dried minced onion
1 1/2 ts Onion powder
2 ts Crushed thyme
1 ts Salt
1 ts Ground allspice
1/4 ts Ground nutmeg
1/4 ts Ground cinnamon
1 ts Sugar
1 ts Black pepper
1/2 ts Cayenne pepper
Black beans -- rinsed and
Pineapple chunks -- drained
Rub whole tenderloin with Jerk Seasoning.  Prepare a covered grill for
indirect cooking (or preheat oven to 450 degrees for conventional
cooking): Bank medium-hot coals (thickly covered with white ash) to
one side of grill and place meat on opposite side.  Place whole
tenderloin in grill in covered grill and cook 15 to 20 minutes or
until meat thermometer registers an internal temperature of 160
degrees. To cook in a conventional oven at 450 degrees, place roast
in an open pan and cook about 20 minutes or until internal
temperature reads 155 degrees on a meat thermometer. Allow roast to
stand 10 minutes before cutting.  In a large bowl toss together
beans, onion, chili powder and cumin. Heat a large skillet over
medium-high heat, film with a little oil and stir-fry the bean
mixture until heated through, about 3-4 minutes.  Toss bean mixture
with chopped fresh coriander, lime juice, and salt. Serve sliced
tenderloin with beans, warmed tortillas and salsa. Makes 4 servings.
~-Pineapple-Cucumber Salsa: In a medium bowl stir together drained
pineapple chunks, diced cucumber, rice vinegar, olive oil, cayenne
pepper, jalapeno pepper, black pepper and fresh coriander. Cover and
let rest at room temperature for an hour to let flavors mingle.
Refrigerate for longer storage.  Bring to room temperature before
serving. Makes 3 cups. ~-*Jerk Seasoning: Mix together dried minced
onion, onion powder, crushed thyme, salt, allspice, nutmeg cinnamon,
sugar, black pepper and cayenne. Makes enough to coat one whole
tenderloin. I usually quadruple this recipe and use it on ribs and
chicken before grilling. May 24,1995 Omaha World Herald

: HMS131
Recipe By

