Title: JERRY'S CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM
Categories: Ice cream
Yield: 1 Servings
2 oz Unsweetened chocolate
1/3 c  Unsweetened cocoa pwdr
1 1/2 c  Milk
2    Large eggs
1 c  Sugar
1 c  Whipping cream
1 ts Vanilla extract
1.  Melt the unsweetened chocolate on top of a double boiler over
hot, not boiling, water.  Gradually whisk in the cocoa and heat,
stirring constantly, until smooth. (The chocolate may "seize" or
clump together. Don't worry, the milk will dissolve it.)  Whisk in
the milk, a little at a time, and heat until completely blended.
Remove from the heat and let cool. 2.  Whisk the eggs in a mixing
bowl until light and fluffy, 1 to 2 minutes. Whisk in the sugar, a
little at a time, then continue whisking until completely blended,
about 1 minute more. Pour in the cream and vanilla and whisk to
blend. 3.  Pour the chocolate mixture into the cream mixture and
blend. Cover and refrigerate until cold, about 1 to 2 hours,
depending on your refrigerator. 4. Transfer the mixture to an ice
cream maker and freeze following the manufacturer's instructions.
Makes 1 quart. VARIATIONS: CHOCOLATE CHOCOLATE CHIP:  Add 3/4 c.
semisweet chocolate chips after the ice cream stiffens (about 2
minutes before it is done), then continue freezing until the ice
cream is ready. CHOCOLATE MINT: Whisk 1 teaspoon peppermint extract
into the mixture just before transferring it to the ice cream maker.
CHOCOLATE PEANUT BUTTER: Just before transferring the mixture to the
ice cream maker, pour about 1 cup of it into a separate bowl. Add 1/2
cup smooth peanut butter and whisk until completely blended. Return
to the remaining mixture and blend. CHOCOLATE BANANA: Mash 2 overripe
bananas and the juice of one lemon together in a bowl, then whisk
until smooth. After the ice cream stiffens (about 2 minutes before it
is done), add the banana mixture, then continue freezing until the
ice cream is ready. CHOCOLATE FUDGE PECAN: After the ice cream
stiffens (about 2 minutes before it is done), add 3/4 cup pecan
halves, then continue freezing until the ice cream is ready.  After
it is ready, remove the dasher and fold in 1 cup fudge sauce (cold)
into the ice cream with a spatula. CHOCOLATE REESE'S CUP:  Chop 1 cup
Reese's Peanut Butter cups, place into bowl and refrigerate.  After
ice cream stiffens, add the candy, then continue freezing until the
ice cream is done. Source:  Ben & Jerry's Homemade Ice Cream &
Dessert Book

