Title: JUNE MEYER'S AUTHENTIC HUNGARIAN APPLE STRUDE
Categories: Fruit, Pastry, Hungary
Yield: 6 Servings
1    Package of Filo dough
1 1/2    Sticks of butter, melted
2 lb Apples, peeled,
-cored, and sliced thin
1 ts Cinnamon
1 c  Sugar
1 c  Toasted breadcrumbs
1 lg Clean kitchen towel
-(used to roll strudel)
Special occasions meant Apple Strudel time. As Christmas and
Thanksgiving fall in winter when apples were at their best, Apple
Strudel was then always served. When my Grandma made strudel, she
would have all hands available helping. The dining room table would
be covered with a white cloth on which the strudel dough would be
pulled thin until you could read a newspaper through it. The women
would walk around the table stretching the dough by lifting it with
their round knuckles to avoid tears. When all the apple slices and
ingredients were spread out on the tissue dough, the eldest would
supervise the rolling up of the strudel by pulling up on the cloth to
create a big roll of strudel. When the rolling was done, the roll
would be cut into 6 or 8 sections, the ends tucked under and all
placed into the oven to bake. When the strudel was done, we children
would fight to get the thick juice that cooked out onto the pan. It
was like candy, apple, cinnamon, and butter flavor all mixed
together. Today we can get apples all year round and purchased Filo
dough saves a lot of back breaking work.

Here is a simple way of making good Hungarian strudel. Buy FILO
dough. You will be able to find it where the frozen pastry shells
are. It is as good as homemade but much less work. Follow directions
for strudel, using melted butter to brush on filo tissue.

Regards, June Meyer.

Mix apples with crumbs (crumbs help to keep juice in strudel instead
of flooding pan). Mix suger and cinnamon in a dish. Lay out clean
towel and put sheets of buttered Filo dough on top. Place apples on
prepared filo layers that have been brushed with butter. Start
spreading apples about 3 inches from the edge closest to you (you
need a clean area so you can get it in the pan. Completly cover the
rest of the filo dough with apples. Sprinkle cinnimon and sugar mix
over the apples. Now take the edge of the towel near you and slowly
start to make a big roll by pulling up and towards you. This is not
as hard as it sounds. As you are rolling it you can roll it right
into a greased pan. Then tuck the ends of the strudel underneath
itself. Brush top with more butter and bake at 350 degrees for about
1 hour. Brush every 20 min. with butter. Strudel is done when it
looks like it has collapsed. Cool and cut into slices and dust with
powderd sugar.

You can vary the filling by adding chopped walnuts, or raisins. If
you add raisins you must first soften them in hot water and then dry
them before using. I prefer using just apples.

When you lay out the filo sheets you will want to have at least 4 or 6
layers buttered one on top of the other. You will have enough sheets
to make several strudels so buy at least 4 or 5 lbs of apples. It is
not really a lot of work and you will have a wonderful dessert. WALT

