Title: JUNE MEYER'S AUTHENTIC HUNGARIAN LENTIL SOUP
Categories: Hungary, Soup
Yield: 6 Servings
1 lb Dried lentils,
-washed and drained
1/4 c  Lard, bacon drippings,
-or oil
2 md Onions, chopped
1    Parsnip
-or parsley root, chopped
2 md Carrots, sliced
1 c  Sliced celery
8 c  Water
1 ts Salt to taste
Several whole black pepper
-corns
2    Whole cloves
2    Bay leaves
1 lg Potato, peeled and grated
2 lg Links(or 4 small) smoked
-sausage, skin pricked
-with fork
2 tb Good vinegar
Hungarian soups are usually served in the fall and winter months.
When ever I make a large pot of soup in winter, the steam always
condenses on the windows. I then always think of a remote memory I
have of playing by a low window, water running down in little
riverlets, and shadowy forms passing by single file on the other side
of the window, and the wonderful smell of soup cooking. When I asked
my mother about the memory she said that my paternal grandmother had
died in January 1936, and family and guests were coming back from the
cemetary after the burial. It was frigid out and Hungarian soup,
bread and Strudel was made to feed the frozen mourners. I was two
years old and that faint memory has stayed with me for my whole life.

Never a separate course by itself, but always the main course. This is
another one of those hearty Peasant soups that is a complete meal by
itself. Serve it with some crusty bread, a chunk of cheese and a dark
beer. Serve in a large bowl steaming hot. Regards, June Meyer.

In a large pot, heat fat and add carrots, root vegetable and onions.
Saute until onions are golden. Add lentils, water, celery, and
seasonings. Grate the potato into the mixture and add sausage. Simmer
covered 1 hour until lentils and vegetables are tender. Remove bay
leaves. Add vinegar just before serving and adjust salt. Serve with a
crusty bread and salad.

Mongol Soup

If you add one can of tomato paste and two cans of water to the above
soup and puree it, you will have made another soup called Mongo Soup.
Try it, it is good.

Serves 6 If you try one of my recipes please tell me what you think.
E-Mail me at: june4@interaccess.com

WALT

