Title: JUNE MEYER'S AUTHENTIC HUNGARIAN KIPFELS(GRAN
Categories: Hungary, Pastry
Yield: 50 Servings
10 c  Flour or 2 1/2 lbs.
3/4 lb Butter, room temp.
1/4 c  Lard, room temp.
1/2 ts Salt
3    Whole eggs and
2    Egg yolks.
1 3/4 c  Warm sour cream
1 1/4 c  Sugar
2    Lemon's zest grated,
-and reserve juice
2 1/2    Yeast cakes
-or packs dry yeast
MMMMM----------------MIXTURE FOR ROLLING KIPFELS---------------------
1/2 lb Ground walnuts mixed with
3/4 c  Granulated sugar.
Kipfels or Kifflies were always present at any family gathering, be
it a birthday, shower, anniversary, wedding or just a get together.
They are made from a rich dough. Every family had their own recipe
which was handed down through the generations. You could always
identify whose Kipfels you were eating, either by dough flavor,
fillings which contained either poppy seed, prune, apricot, cinnamon
and chopped walnuts or cream cheese, or by topping or shape. There
was always an underlying competition among the women as to who's
Kipfels were best. They are not large, but big enough for three or
four bites. Kipfels would be stacked into pyramids. They were served
with coffee after a large meal. You always had room for two or three.

These are Eastern European in origin. They have their roots in
Austria, Hungary, Serbia, Croatia, Yugoslavia, Romania and Turkey.
There are hundreds of variations. Regards, June Meyer.

Mix yeast and warm water in a small dish and proof according to yeast
directions. Mix flour and shortening together in a large bowl till
like pie dough, only finer. (I use my wire pastry cutter). Add all
other dough ingredients including yeast mixture and work with your
hands till well mixed and dough comes away from your hands and pan.
If it seems dry, add the lemon juice, 1/2 lemon at a time until soft
enough to mix.

Let rise in a warm place till double in bulk. (I turn on the light in
my oven and keep the door closed).

When dough has risen, pull off about 1/4 of a cup or a small egg sized
piece of dough for each cake and flatten to the size of a baby's hand
(do not roll with rolling pin) but push into shape.

Squeeze out about 1 tsp. of Lekvar (see recipe index) jam, and pinch
up dough to cover the Lekvar jam entirely. Roll in Ground Nut
mixture. Place on a greased baking pan. Let rise again for about 3/4
of and hour. Bake at 350 or moderate oven, 25 to 30 min. or till
lightly brown.

Cakes should be placed close together in pan, but do not crowd too
closely. My kipfels look like a lot of fat little bundled up babies!

Makes 50, more or less.

If you try one of my recipes please tell me what you think.
E-Mail me at: june4@interaccess.com WALT

