Title: HOW TO USE A BREADMAKER
Categories: Breadmaker, Info/tips
Yield: 1 Servings
JUDY GARNETT pjxg05a
1. Try using Rapid Rise yeast and check the date on it when you buy
it. Keep it in the refrigerator and always BRING IT TO ROOM
TEMP.BEFORE USING IT. I have been using bulk yeast lately because
it's more economical. I use 2 1/2 level tsp.of the bulk yeast in lieu
of a pkg of yeast. (This is for the 3 Cup DAK).

2.Use BREAD flour instead of all- purpose flour. It has more gluten.
If you are using "darker" flours such as rye, whole wheat etc., use
at least 1 c. white BREAD flour along with the other flours, and try
using 1 tsp. vital wheat gluten for each cup of flour called for in
the recipe. At times, I also use a 1 tsp. lecitihin for each cup of
flour. It helps the elasticity and rise of the bread. If you can't
find either product, call all your local health food stores. Drug
Stores often have lecithin near the vitamins.
3.Check to see that all liquid ingreds. are not too hot or cold.--95
to 110 degrees is about right. I use a very unscientific method for
the warm water and milk. I run hot water from the tap and give it the
"bath water for baby" test on the wrist. <G> Have your other ingreds.
such as eggs and butter at ROOM temp. If the ingreds. are too hot or
cold it may kill the yeast.
4. The key to using the auto- breadmaker is to have the correct
proportion of flour to liquid. After the dough has kneaded for a few
minutes in the breadmaker, look in and see if there is ONE ball of
dough which is incorporating most of the flour from the sides of the
pan. While it's in its first knead (BEFORE it goes into the
fermentation and touch the dough lightly. It should be in one soft
ball. If your finger has sticky dough on it, add a Tablespoon of
flour. Let it knead a minute and touch it again and check to see if
it's still sticky. Keep adding a tablespoon at a time ONLY

until it's no longer sticky, DON'T OVERDO IT. It should be a nice
"soft" ball. If it just makes a slight indentation and doesn't look
crusty, it's probably about right. If it feels too dry or is in two
or more balls, OR if the BM seems to be laboring or is "walking", add
a tablespoon at a time of WARM water. PLEASE DON'T ADD TOO MUCH
LIQUID. If you add too much liquid in proportion to the flour, the
dough may rise too much and overflow. (Your bread won't be done in
the center either) 5.If you look in and see that the dough is
threatening to rise up over the top of the bread pan, don't panic,
poke it a few times with a toothpick, skewer, fork,etc. until it
deflates. 05/31 12:54 pm LOREL
FOOD AND WINE BB TOPIC: BREADS BY MACHINE TIME: 05/31 1:05 PM

LORELI AGUDA   (WSKD49A) FROM: LORELI AGUDA (WSKD49A)
TO:
SUBJECT: MM:BREADMAKER MEGA

