Title: HOW TO COOK WHOLE HOGS PT 2
Categories: Main dish, Sides
Yield: 1 Servings
See part 1
"moment-of-perfection" is, so just turn him at 9:41 A.M. on Saturday.

15.After starting the hawg at 5 P.M. on Friday, continue cookin' him
by adding coals now and then. You can leave him uncovered on the pit
for viewing until around 10 P.M. Friday night. Then you need to cover
him. Cover him first with one piece of sheet iron that DOES NOT TOUCH
THE HAWG ANYWHERE EXCEPT THE FEET AND EARS. We use a special piece of
bent sheet iron that does not touch the hawg. Over this sheet iron
place a small tarp that covers the pit. This is essentially our
cooking oven. 16.The rate at which coals are applied comes, I
suppose, from experience. For the entire 24 hours of cooking, you
should use slightly less than one pound of charcoal per pound of
hawg. For example, for a 1OO pound dressed hawg (including head and
feet), we would buy 1OO pounds of charcoal, but we would probably
only use around 8O to 9O pounds of charcoal. The key to cookin' is to
START SLOW and don't eveer get much faster. Just be PERSISTENT. It is
a low-temperature/long-duration cooking process. Every time one of
our cookers have described to someone else how to cook a hawg, they
usually cook too fast and ruin the hawg. 17.After the hawg is turned
over, grease will drip, or even run at times, so one should not put
the coals where the grease drips. (Actually it will begin dripping
long before it's turned but the greatest danger of significant grease
fires occurs after turning.) We usually place the coals more around
the edges after turning. This will not hurt the cooking rate because
the sheet iron and tarp will be like an oven. This locating of hot
coals is, of course, to prevent grease fires. We have never had a
large grease fire since we started using the raised steel grate on
the bottom of the pit. Before the use of the steel grate we had some
big-time grease fires that even Ward would love. 18.Also after the
hawg is turned you should baste (or pour) barbecue sauce on the
bottom side of the hawg which is now turned up. This doesn't get any
barbecue flavor into the meat, it only keeps the meat from getting
dry on this side, so any kind of sauce will do. We usually serve the
barbecue sauce on the side, so that people can have hot, or mild, or
whatever they want, or whatever you have to offer. Repeat this
basting every couple of hours.

19.When the hawg is done (by definition he is done at 5 P.M., and at
this time he will bite the apple in two) pick him up by using the
rods or sucker rod grate and move him to a place in the food line on
the saw horses. Use two cutters, or pullers, on either side of the
hawg. The best thing to do if the hawg is cooked properly is for
these pullers to put on the rubber gloves (the thicker the glove the
better because the meat will be hot) and simply pull the meat off and
pull it apart. Do not use swine experts or veterinarians for this, as
they don't seem to know the difference between a ham and a
tenderloin. Be careful to not break the skin, the grease (which you
will not notice dripping through) can ruin a good pair of Justin
boots in no time.

NOTES : Courtesy of  http://www.erc.msstate.edu/hawgs/hawgs.html
Recipe by: Contributed By Dave Klose

