Title: HUNGARIAN GULYAS (GOULASH)
Categories: Main dish, Meats, Beef
Yield: 1 Servings
1 1/2 lb Beef in 1-inch cubes
1/4 c  Green or rep pepper,=
Chopped
2 c  Meat broth
4 sl Bacon
1 1/2 c  Onions, chopped (3 medium)
1 tb Hungarian Paprika
1 1/2 ts Salt
1/4 ts Pepper
1/8 ts Marjoram
3/4 c  Dry white wine
1/2 c  Water
1/4 c  Flour
1 tb Butter
1/2 ts Hungarian paprika
1 tb Water
Set out a Dutch oven, or a electric skillet, or a 3-quart sauce pot
having a tight fitting cover. Prepare meat broth and set aside. Dice
the bacon and place in the skillet or Dutch oven, cook slowly,
stirring and turning frequently, until the bacon is lightly browned.
Remove the bacon with a slotted spoon an put in a small bowl and set
aside.

Add the chopped onion to the bacon fat in the skillet, or Dutch oven
and cook over medium heat until the onion is transparent, stirring
occasionally.  Remove the onion with a slotted spoon to the bowl
containing the bacon and set aside.

Add the meat to the bacon fat and slowly brown on all sides, stirring
occasionally.  Sprinkle 1 tablespoon paprika, salt, pepper, and the
marjoram over the meat mixture.

Stir in the bacon-onion mixture with the chopped green or red pepper.
Slowly pour in the meat broth and white wine. Bring to boiling. Reduce
heat, cover and simmer 2 to 2-1/2 hours, or until the meat is tender
when pierced with a fork.  Remove the meat with a slotted spoon to a
heavy serving dish.

Thicken the cooking liquid by pouring 1/2 cup water and 1/4 cup flour
into a screw top jar.  Shake until the mixture is well blended.
Slowly pour one half of the mixture into the sauce pot, stirring
constantly. Bring to boiling.  Gradually add only what is needed of
the remaining flour-water mixture for consistency desired. Bring to
boiling after each addition. Cook 3 to 5 minutes longer.

In a small skillet melt 1 tablespoon butter (or more). Remove from
heat. Blend in 1/2 teaspoon paprika.  Stir in 1 tablespoon water.
Immediately add to liquid in the skillet/and/or/Dutch oven, stirring
untill well blended. Pour the sauce over the meat.  Serve immediately.

Note 1.  Both Germans and Hungarians serve the Gulyas with Spaetzle
dumplings.

Note 2:  You can add any of the following to the receipe.

1    teaspoon caraway seed
1    clove garlic, minced 6 medium potatoes, washed, pared, and
quartered.  Add about 1/2 hour
before the end of the cooking time.

Read my lips:  Use only pure, genuine, authentic Hungarian Paprika.
Without the Hungarian Paprika it tastes like fecal matter.

Clayton Schmitt, GmbH Boquete, Chiriqui Republica de Panama

