Title: ICES (PART 2)
Categories: Info/tips
Yield: 4 Servings
Water
Sugar
Fruit
*Colorings*.--For *Blue* rub a piece of indigo with a little water
and add by drops to the mixture to be colored until the desired shade
is reached. For *Brown* use grated chocolate, or for a very light
brown, *Caramel*, which is prepared for immediate use by putting cup
granulated sugar in *iron* skillet or frying-pan set over fire, and
stirring, constantly until a dark brown color and as thick as
molasses. When properly done a cup sugar will make five tablespoons
coloring. When preparing for bottling, boil a longer time, then add a
half pint water and boil again, until a little cooled in saucer is
found thick as molases or honey. If too thick, or if it candies, add
a little more water and boil again. Bottle, and if kept corked it
will never spoil.  For *Green* use either the Parsley or Spinach
Coloring, given on page 180. For *Pink* use strawberry, currant or
cranberry juice or jelly.  If a bright *Red* is desired, Mix one
drachm each pulverized alum and cream tartar, four drachms powdered
cochineal, two ounces loaf sugar and saltspoon soda; or same
proportions in level tablespoons are two-thirds tablespoon pulverized
alum, half tablespoon cream tartar, two and a half of powdered
cochineal, four of pounded oaf sugar and the saltspoon soda; boil ten
minutes in half pint pure soft water and when cool bottle and cook
for use.  For *Yellow*, use the juice of a carrot or the grated peel
of an orange or lemon, moistened withthe juice or a little water, and
squeezed through a cloth.
When a deeper color is wanted boil a little American saffron with a
little water till a bright yellow, strain and cool, and use enough to
give desired shade; some use a mixture of an ounce turmeric with four
of deodorized alcohol shaking till dissolved and then straining and
bottling. No objection can be made to the use of any of the above,
save perhaps to the blue, which is very seldom used, and only for
Ornamental Icing, The others are all fruit or vegetable preparations,
and their use adds greatly to the handsome appearance of ices and
ice-creams, icing jellies, cakes, creams and pudding and other
sauces. To guard against getting in too much coloring, use by putting
in a very little at first, mixing well, then add a very little more
until desired shade is obtained.

Posted on GEnie by C.SVITEK [cathy], Nov 29, 1992 MM by Sylvia
Steiger, GEnie THE.STEIGERS, CI$ 71511,2253, GT Cookbook echo
moderator, net/node 004/005

