Title: IMAM BAYILDI (BRAISED EGGPLANT WITH TOMATOES
Categories: Middle east, Turkish, Vegetables, Eggplant, Time/life
Yield: 6 Servings
3 md Eggplant; (about 1 lb. ea.)
;as long and as narrow as
;possible
4 tb Salt
2 ts Salt
6 md Onion; peeled, sliced 1/8
;inch thick and separated
;into rings
5 md Tomato; fresh, ripe, peeled,
;seeded and finely chopped,
;or 1 1/2 cup chopped,
;drained, canned tomatoes
1/2 c  Olive oil
6 lg Garlic cloves; peeled
2 tb Parsley; finely chopped,
;prefer flat leaf parsley
With a sharp knife, cut off the stem and peel each eggplant
lengthwise, leaving 4 evenly spaced 1 inch wide strips of peel
intact. Slicing between the strips, cut each one in half. Cut side
up, make three or four 4 inch long lengthwise slashes through the
thickest part of each half, spacing the slashes about 1 inch apart.
Sprinkle the eggplants with 1 tablespoon of the salt and arrange them
in two or three layers in a large flat bowl or pan. Pour in enough
cold water to cover them by 1 inch, weight with a heavy casserole,
and let the eggplants rest at room temperature for at least 30
minutes.
Meanwhile, drop the onion rings into a large colander set in a deep
plate.  Sprinkle the onions with 3 tablespoons of the salt, turning
them about with a spoon to coat them evenly. Let stand at room
temperature for at least 30 minutes, then rinse the onions under warm
running water and squeeze them gently but completely dry. Place them
in a bowl, add the tomatoes and the remaining 2 teaspoons of salt and
toss together thoroughly.
Pour 2 tablespoons of the oil into a heavy casserole large enough
to hold the eggplants in one layer. Drain the eggplants, rinse them
under cold water and pat dry with paper towels. Arrange the eggplants
cut side up in the casserole.  Force as much of the onion-tomato
mixture as possible into the slashes and spread the rest on top.
Place a garlic clove on each eggplant half, and sprinkle them with
the remaining 6 tablespoons of oil. Pour in the cup of water and
bring to a boil over high heat. Reduce the heat to low and simmer
covered for 1 hour and 15 minutes, or until the eggplants are tender.
Cool in the casserole to room temperature.
To serve, arrange the eggplants n a large platter or individual
serving plates, spoon the cooking juices around them and sprinkle
with parsley.

