Title: INFUSED OILS & VINEGARS INGREDIENTS "CHINA MO
Categories: Info/tips
Yield: 1 Informed
MMMMM------------------INFUSION RECOMMENDATIONS-----------------------
Sesame Oil
Distilled/Cider/Rice Vinegar
Pepper flakes
Fermented Beans
Kosher Salt
|   Kadoya Sesame Oil For the accent oil, I choose Kadoya Sesame Oil.
The toasting and pressing of this particular brand of sesame oil is
done with such consistent card that I have never had a burnt-tasting
or rancid bottle in all my years of cooking. If your market does not
have Kadoya brand, taste the other candidates with a critical nose
and tongue. | Marukan unseasoned rice vinegar (with green label) |
Heinz distilled white vinegar and Heinz apple cider vinegar are my
favorite vinegars of choice for making infusions. |   Miysukan
unseasoned rice vinegar is another good brand. These are not the
least expensive, but in my experience they are the most tasty, with a
broad range of flavor in addition to the acidic bite. In the realm of
dry and fresh aromatics used for infusing, you must also choose with
care: | Dried red chili flakes should be red (indicating sweetness
and fire), not brown or purple-black. They should be so pungent that
you rear back when you smell them. The bag should contain no more
than 25 percent seeds. |  Szechwan peppercorns should smell
profoundly good and herbal. The bag should contain few if any black
seeds. Twigs and tiny leaves are part of the bundle, along with a
good-size thorn every so often (that should be picked out) | Pearl
River Bridge Chinese fermented black beans should be moist and
pliable to the touch. They should taste good, with a nice range of
flavor in the after-taste. My favorite brand is Pearl River Bridge in
a round yellow box.  Don't use beans that are hard and shriveled.
Likewise, don't wash them before use; you want the salt they carry as
a contribution to the infusion. | Garlic, ginger and lemongrass
should be rock-hard fresh, with no hint of mold to the eye or the
nose. | Scallions should be straight-standing and perky, ideally
wearing their white beards as a sign of freshness. They should feel
dry or pleasantly moist from the grocer's water pistol, not slimy. |
Orange and Lemon Zest should be washed well in warm water with an
abrasive scrubber and then rinsed squeaky-clean, even if the fruit
came from your back yard tree. | Diamond Kosher Salt is the only kind
I use unless a recipe specifies otherwise. It comes in a big red and
gold box and is a feature of most good restaurant kitchens. No other
brand, in my experience is so consistently mild and clean tasting.
Buy a box from a neighborhood restaurant if you can't convince your
grocer to order it. (Dorothy's note: I found Diamond Kosher Salt in
my super market's Kosher/Jewish food section _not_ with the other
salts and spices for sale.)

