Title: INJERA (ETHIOPIAN FLAT ROUND BREADS)
Categories: Bread/rolls, Ethiopia, Update
Yield: 1 Servings
To make about 16
-nine-inch-round breads.
5 tb All purpose flour
3 c  Aunt Jemima's Deluxe Easy
-Pour Pancake Mix
1/4 ts Backing soda
3 1/2 c  Club soda at room
-temperature
1 1/2 c  Water
Combine the flour, pancake mix and baking soda in a deep bowl.
Stirring constantly with a whisk or spoon, pour in the club soda and
water in a slow stream and continue to stir until the mixture is a
smooth , thin cream. Strain the batter through a fine sieve set over
a clean bowl, pressing down hard on any lumps with the back of a
large spoon. Cook the injera in a 10 inch skillet or omelette pan
with a non-stick cooking surface or a well-seasoned 10 inch cast iron
skillet. Warm the ungreased pan over moderate heat until it is just
hot enough to set the batter without browning it. To test the heat,
pour 1 tablespoon of the batter into the centre of the pan.  The
bottom surface should solidify immediately without becoming brown.
For each injera, remove the pan from the heat and ladle in 1/4 cup of
the batter. Then quickly tip the pan back and forth to cover the
bottom evenly. Cover the pan partially and cook the bread over
moderate heat for 1 minute, or just until the top is spongy, moist
and dotted with tiny air holes.  The bottom should be smooth, dry and
somewhat shiny. Do not let the bottom brown; otherwise the edges may
become too crisp. Remove the pan from the heat and use a spatula or
your fingers to lift the injera gently out of the pan.  Lay it on a
plate to cool, and ladle another 1/4 cup of batter into the pan,
tipping and spreading the batter evenly. Repeat the cooking process,
and when the next injera is done, transfer the cooled bread to a
platter and place the hot injera on the plate. Continue making the
breads in the same fashion with the remaining batter. To serve,
spread 7 or 8 injera out in a shallow or flat basket or on a large
platter, letting them overlap each other and rape over the edge of
the container. Fold the rest of the injera into quarters and arrange
them attractively in the centre.  To eat them tear off a small piece
and use it to scoop up food.  In Ethiopia, injera is served with
almost every meal, and is a traditional accompaniment to such dishes
as doro wat, sik sik wat and zilzil alecha. ++

