Title: IRISH WHOLE-GRAIN SODA BREAD (LACTO)
Categories: Digest, Mar95
Yield: 16 Servings
3 c  Whole wheat flour,
Preferably stone ground
1 c  All-purpose flour, plus
Extra for working dough
1 1/2 ts Salt
1 1/2 ts Baking soda
1 c  Old fashioned rolled oats
2 c  Buttermilk
2 tb Dark molasses or black
Treacle
This version, flavored with old-fashioned rolled oats and dark
molasses, is similar to the soda bread served at Ballymaloe House in
County Cork, Ireland.  Bake the bread early in the day and reheat it
just before the guests arrive.

Thoroughly combine ww and all-purpose flours, baking soda and salt in
large bowl. Stir in oats and make well in center.

Combine buttermilk and molasses in separate bowl. Pour mixture into
flour well and gradually work into flour with fingers or spoon.

Knead dough lightly 3 or 4 times on floured surface and divide in
half. Shape into 2 round loaves, each about 5-inch in diameter. With
sharp knife, score loaves with cross slash, cutting 1 inch deep.

Place loaves on ungreased baking sheet and bake at 425 degrees 15
minutes, then reduce heat and continue to bake 25 to 30 minutes
longer or until loaves are brown on top and sound hollow when tapped
on bottom. Cool at least 5 minutes on cooling rack.  Loaves can be
baked several hours ahead and reheated in low oven.  Cut into thick
or thin wedges. Serve warm or at room tempature.

Makes 2 loaves, 8 servings each. Each serving contains: 140 calories;
257 mg sodium; 1 mg cholesterol; 1 gram fat; 28 grams carbohydrates;
6 grams protein; 0.55 grams fiber.

Source: This recipe was in our paper today, perhaps something can be
substituted for the buttermilk

Posted by "Acox, Christine" <Christine.Acox@WellsFargo.COM> to the
Fatfree Digest [Volume 16 Issue 13] Mar. 17, 1995.

Individual recipes copyrighted by originator. FATFREE Recipe
collections copyrighted by Michelle Dick 1995. Formatted by Sue Smith,
SueSmith9@aol.com using MMCONV. Archived through kindness of Karen
Mintzias, km@salata.com.

1.80รก

