Title: ISLAND ICE CREAM SODA
Categories: Godiva, Beverages, Alcohol, Ice cream
Yield: 4 Servings
-----Coconut Ice Cream-----
6 lg Egg Yolks
1 pn Salt
2 c  Heavy Cream
15 oz Can Cream Of Coconut; (fx.
-Coco Lopez)
2 tb Dark Rum; -or-
2 ts Vanilla Extract
-----Pineapple-Ginger
-Syrup-----
1 md Pineapple; peeled and cubed
2    In Piece Ginger Peel; slice
-thinly
1/2 c  Granulated Sugar
-----Assembly-----
1 c  Heavy Cream
1 tb Granulated Sugar
1/2 ts Vanilla Extract
32 oz Bottle Seltzer Water;
-chilled
-----For Garnish-----
2 tb Macadamia Nuts; chopped
4    Pineapple Wedges
Make the coconut ice cream:

1. In a 4 1/2-quart bowl of a heavy-duty electric mixer set at
medium-high speed, using the wire whisk attachment, beat the egg
yolks and salt for 5 to 7 minutes, or until they are pale yellow and
form a thick ribbon when the whisk is lifted.

2. In a heavy, medium saucepan over medium heat, bring the cream to a
gentle boil. Remove the pan from the heat and gradually stir 1 cup of
the hot cream into the beaten egg yolks until well blended. Gradually
stir this mixture back into the saucepan. Cook the custard over
medium-low heat, stirring constantly with a wooden spoon, for 2 to 4
minutes, or until the custard has thickened slightly. It is done when
you can run your finger down the back of the custard-coated spoon and
a path remains in the custard for several seconds. Do not allow the
custard to come to a boil.

3. Remove the pan from the heat and immediately strain through a
sieve into a stainless steel bowl. Place the bowl over a larger bowl
of ice water and stir the custard for 5 to 10 minutes, or until cool.
Whisk in the cream of coconut and rum or vanilla. Remove the bowl of
custard from the bowl of ice water. Cover the surface of the custard
with plastic wrap and refrigerate for at least 6 hours, or overnight,
until very cold.

4. Scrape the chilled custard into the container of an ice cream
maker and freeze according to the manufacturer's instructions.
Transfer the ice cream to a medium bowl. Cover the surface of the ice
cream with plastic wrap and cover the bowl tightly with aluminum
foil. Freeze the ice cream overnight.

Make the pineapple-ginger syrup:

1. In the bowl of a food processor fitted with the metal chopping
blade, combine the pineapple and ginger pieces. Process for 45
seconds, or until the mixture is pureed. Transfer the puree to a
medium, non-corrosive saucepan. Add the sugar to the puree and cook
over medium heat, stirring constantly with a wooden spoon until the
mixture comes to a boil. Lower the heat and simmer the puree for 10
minutes. Remove the pan from the heat, and cool the puree completely.
Strain the puree through a fine-meshed sieve into a medium bowl.
Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and refrigerate for at least 2
hours, until chilled.

Assemble the ice cream sodas:

1. In a chilled 4 1/2-quart bowl of a heavy duty electric mixer,
using the wire whip attachment, beat the cream, sugar, and vanilla at
medium-high speed until stiff peaks start to form. Fill a pastry bag
fitted with a star tip (such as Ateco #6) with the cream. Refrigerate
the cream until ready to use.

2. Pour 1/2 cup of the pineapple syrup into a tall, 16-ounce glass.
Add seltzer water almost to the top of the glass. Place a scoop of
the coconut ice cream on the side of the glass. Pipe a large rosette
of whipped cream next to the scoop. Top with 1/2 tablespoon of the
macadamia nuts and garnish with a pineapple wedge. Repeat this
procedure to make 3 more ice cream sodas. Serve immediately.

4    servings.

PREPARATION: 45 minutes plus chilling and freezing times.

Recipe by: webmaster@godiva.com

