Title: Balti A - Z of Vegetables
Categories: Vegetables, Indian, Balti
Yield: 1 info sheet
-preparation.
6 oz Vegetable weighed AFTER
Aubergine. Wash, then halve and discard the central pith and seeds.
Dice, retaining the skin. Boil steam or microwave to tender.

Broccoli or Calabrese Wash and remove leaves and bottom of stalk. Cut
into small florets and cut the stalk into small chunks. Boil, steam or
microwave till tender.

Carrots Discard tops and tails, wash then pare and cut into strips,
rounds or cubes. Boil, steam or microwave to tender.

Celery Cut off the pithy base, and the leaves, wash then cut the
sticks into bite-sized pieces. Boil, steam or microwave to tender.

Chilli Chilli heat tolerance levels vary from person to person from
nil to unlimited. On average, one hottish chilli per single portion
is enough. Wash it, destalk it and chop it into narrow rings or
slices, or keep it whole. You may discard the seeds, but that's a bit
like throwing the baby out with the bathwater! It is the seeds which
provide the heat, and contrary to some misinformation, they do not
cause indigestion to those used to them.
Chillies need no prior boiling, steaming or microwaving. Simply add
to the recipe of your choice at the stage after the spices, garlic
and onion are fried, or as individual recipes direct.

Green Beans Runner beans, snap beans, French or Kenyan beans are all
fleshy pods, usually green but sometimes purple or yellow. to use
them, top, tail (and, in the case of runner beans, destring) them and
then cut into strips, or crosswise. Boil, steam or microwave to
tender.

Karela A knobby long, cylindrical pointed green gourd, very bitter
indeed and an acquired taste. Wash, discard the top and tail and dice
into bite-sized pieces. Boil, steam or microwave to tender.

Lotus Root. A rather extraordinary perforated root, indigenous to and
very popular in Baltistan and Kashmir. Peel off skin, wash & cut as
required. Boil, steam or microwave to tender.

Mangetout (Snow pea) The whole thing is eaten after topping and
tailing. it can be eaten raw, but being flat and relitively small, it
makes a perfect Balti stir-fry subject. Alternatively boil, steam or
microwave to tender. Marrow Halve, remove the central seedy mush and
the hard skin, and cut the flesh into bite-sized pieces. Boil, steam
or microwave to tender.

Mushrooms There are literally hundreds of species of these edible
fungi to choose from. All have distinctive flavours, but are handled
in the same way. Peel only if they really need it then wash and pat
dry. Add raw to the Balti recipe of your choice towards the end of
the cooking time. (Mushrooms _can_ stand long cooking, but are best
for flavour after just a few minutes.) To make one portion of Balti
Mushrooms, stir-fry 6 oz mushrooms in 1 tb ghee for 2-3 mins then
flavour with a Balti spice base of your choice.

Okra (Ladies fingers, Bindi) They can be eaten raw, but once cut ooze
sap, so cut just before cooking and eat at once. The microwave
provides excellent results, steaming is all right, but boiling
creates sap. Best of all, in my view, is a stir-fry. To stir-fry,
wash 8oz okra thoroughly and put aside until just before you need to
cook it. Cut off the stalk (and tip if necessary) And cut the okra
into 3/4" pieces at the last possible minute. Stir-fry in 1 tb of
ghee or vegetable oil until cooked to your liking. Flavour at once
with a Balti Spice base of your choice, or add immediately to your
chosen Balti dish.

Parsnip - see potato.

Peas. Whether using fresh or frozen peas, boil, steam or microwave to
tender.

Peppers Also known as Bell pepper, capsicums, paprika, pimentos. Cut
off the stem end, remove seeds and pithy ribs. Cut into chosen shapes
and sizes. The red, orange and yellow stand up to prolonged cooking
rather better than the green which tends to go rather grey. to
counter this, you can blanch, steam or microwave the pre-cut pepper,
softening it and heating it sufficiently to be added at a relatively
late stage of cooking. Alternatively omit the softening stage and add
it after the fry-up of the spices, garlic, onion & masala paste
stages in your chosen Balti curry.

Potato (and Parsnip Turnip etc) Scrub, clean and peel old potatoes
only. Dice large ones into roughly equal bite-sized cubes, small ones
can be halved or left whole. Boil, steam or microwave to tender,
around 10-15 mins depending on the type and size of piece.
Alternatively deep fry the chunks.

Spinach Remove the thick stalks. Boil, steam or microwave to tender.

Sweet Potato and Yam Cook as potatoes Sweetcorn Can be eaten raw, but
light short boiling converts the starch to sugar.
Remove leaves and strings from the cobs then cut the grains off the
cob. Boil, steam or microwave to tender.

Tomatoes Tomatoes need no pre-cooking. Remove stalks and wash, if
fresh, or strain canned tomatoes. Simply chop up and add to your
chosen recipe at almost any stage after the initial dry-up.

Submitted By IAN HOARE   On   05-09-95

