Title: Chicken Shortcake
Categories: Poultry
Yield: 4 servings
1/2 ts Freshly ground black pepper
1 md Onion, peeled
1 c  Sliced fresh mushrooms
3    Scallions, chopped
1 tb Butter
2 tb Flour
1/2 c  Chopped pimientos
1/2 c  Dry white wine
1/2 c  Cooked baby lima beans
Chopped hard-cooked egg, as
-garnish
Watercress, as garnish
3 tb Bacon drippings, divided
1/2 c  Yellow cornmeal
3/4 c  Flour
2 tb Sugar
1 tb Baking powder
1/2 ts Salt
1/2 c  Milk
2 tb Butter, melted
1    Egg, beaten
CHICKEN:
3 lb Chicken
1 ts Salt
CORN BREAD SHORTCAKE:

SHORTCAKE:  Melt 1 tablespoon of bacon drippings in a 9-inch square
baking pan.  Place in an oven at 425F.

Mix the cornmeal, flour, sugar, baking powder and salt.  In a separate
bowl, mix the milk with the melted butter and the remaining 2
tablespoons of bacon drippings.  Let cool to tepid and beat in the
egg.

Working quickly, pour the batter into the hot pan in the oven.  Bake
for 20 to 22 minutes, or until golden brown.

Cut the cornbread into equal pieces.  When ready to use, cut each
piece in half horizontally, as for shortcake.

CHICKEN:  Cover the chicken with water in a heavy pot.  Add the salt,
pepper and onion.  Bring to a boil.  Reduce the heat and simmer,
partially covered, for 1 to 1 1/2 hours until the chicken is tender.

Cool the chicken in the stock.  Remove the chicken from the pot.
Reserve 3 cups of the stock.  Pull the meat from the bones and cut
into bite-size pieces.

In a heavy saucepan, saute the mushrooms and scallions in the butter
for 3 minutes.  Sprinkle in the flour and stir for 5 minutes.  Stir
in the reserved stock.  Continue stirring over medium heat until
gravy thick. Add the pimientos and stir in the wine.  Simmer over low
heat for 5 minutes. Add the lima beans and cook only long enough to
heat them through. Return the chicken meat to the mixture.

TO ASSEMBLE:  Place 1/2 piece of sliced corn bread on a dinner plate.
Top with chicken mixture, another half slice of cornbread, more
chicken and finally a third slice of cornbread.  Sprinkle the top of
the stack with chopped hard-cooked egg and garnish with watercress,
if so desired.

Makes 4 to 6 servings.

From The Olde Pink House in Savannah, Georgia.

[THE BALTIMORE SUN; March 24, 1991]

Posted by Fred Peters.

