Title: Chicken Legs, Bell Peppers and Sausage
Categories: Poultry, Vegetables
Yield: 12 servings
-cored,seeded and cut into
2    Inch strips
2    Onions, peeled and thinly
-sliced
8    Cloves garlic, smashed and
-peeled
1/4 ts Crushed red-pepper flakes
4 c  Chicken broth
2 c  Dry white wine
2 ts Dried leaf rosemary, crushed
1/4 c  Fresh lemon juice
1/4 c  Chopped fresh parsley
8    Whole chicken legs (4 1/4
-pounds) *
1/2 c  All-purpose flour
1/2 ts Salt
1/4 ts Pepper
1/4 c  Vegetable oil, divided
2 1/2 lb Sweet Italian sausage,
-halved crosswise (16)
4    Red bell peppers, cored,
-seeded and cut into
2    Inch strips
4    Green bell peppers,
* Note:  To reduce the fat in this recipe, remove the skin from the
chicken legs.

Separate the legs from the thighs.  Cut each thigh into 2 equal
pieces. Combine the flour, salt and pepper in a bag.  Working in
batches, add the chicken pieces and shake until lightly coated.

Heat half of the oil in each of 2 large Dutch ovens.  Brown the
chicken parts in batches in each pot over medium-high heat, about 6
minutes per batch.  Remove the chicken to a plate and set aside.

Cook the sausages in batches in the 2 Dutch ovens until well browned.
Remove the sausages and add to the chicken.

Reduce the heat.  Carefully pour off all but 2 tablespoons of fat
from each Dutch oven.  Add the red and green bell peppers, onion,
garlic and red pepper flakes to the pots, dividing them equally
between the 2 pots. Cover the pots and cook until the vegetables are
soft, about 5 minutes. Add the wine, broth and rosemarry equally to
the 2 pots.  Add the chicken and sausage; push to the bottom of the
pots.  Bring to a boil. Lower the heat and simmer each pot, stirring
occasionally, for 25 minutes or until the chicken is no longer pink
near the bone.

Remove the vergetables, chicken and sausage to a large serving
platter. Cover and keep warm.

Combine the cooking liquids in one of the dutch ovens.  Skim off the
fat from the surface and discard.  Boil the liquid for about 12
minutes, reducing to 3 cups.

Divide the reduced liquid between the Dutch ovens.  Add the lemon
juice and reserved meats and vegetables, divided equally.  Simmer
both pots until heated through, stirring occasionally.  Stir half of
the parsley into each pot.  Serve.

Makes 12 servings.

Per Serving: 484 Calories, 37 g Protein, 32 g Fat, 12 g
Carbohydrates, 1131 mg Sodium, 123 mg Cholesterol.

Exchanges: 1/4 starch, 5 medium-fat meat, 2 fat.

NOTE:  This recipe can easily be halved for smaller crowds.

[Family Circle; 2/1/92]

Posted by Fred Peters.

