Title: Chicken with Dill Sauce
Categories: Poultry, Salsa/sauce
Yield: 6 servings
Margarine Or Butter
3 md Fresh Pears
1 tb Light Brown Sugar
6 lg Skinless, Boneless Chicken
-Breast Halves
1 lg Egg
1 1/2 c  Fresh Bread Crumbs (3 Slices    1 1/2 ts Instant Chicken Flavored
-Bouillon
1 sm Bunch Of Fresh Dill
1 c  Half And Half Or Light Cream
-Of Bread)
1 ts Salt
Unbleached All-Purpose Flour
3 tb Salad Oil
Yield: 6 Servings

ABOUT 45 MINUTES BEFORE SERVING:

With a meat mallet or the dull edge of a French knife, pound each
chicken breast half to about 1/4-inch thickness.  In a pie plate,
with a fork, beat the egg and 1 Tbls of Water.  On one sheet of waxed
paper, mix the bread crumbs, salt and 3 Tbls of the flour.  On
another sheet of waxed paper, place 3 Tbls of the flour.  Dip the
cutlets in plain flour, then the egg mixture, then coat with the
bread crumb mixture.

In a 12-inch skillet, over medium heat, heat the oil.  When hot add 2
Tbls of margarine or butter (1/4 cube).  When it is hot, cook the
cutlets in batches, until browned on both sides and cooked through,
about 3 to 4 minutes then remove to a serving platter and keep warm.

While the cutlets are cooking, cut each pear crosswise into 3 or 4
thick slices.  In a 10-inch skillet, over medium heat, heat 1 Tbls of
butter or margarine and cook the pears and brown sugar until the
pears are tender, about 10 minutes.

In a small bowl, stir bouillon, 2 Tbls of flour and 1 1/2 cups of
water until smooth and well blended.  Stir into the drippings of the
chicken skillet.  Over high heat, cook, stirring constantly, until
the sauce boils and thickens slightly.

Mince enough dill from the bunch to measure 2 Tbls.  Stir the minced
dill and half and half into the sauce in the skillet and heat through.

TO SERVE:

Arrange the chicken cutlets and pears on a warm large platter and
spoon some of the sauce over the chicken.  Garnish with the remaining
dill.  Pass the remaining sauce in a gravy boat.

EACH SERVING CONTAINS:  455 Calories, 21 Grams Fat, 127 Milligrams Of
Cholesterol, 835 Milligrams Sodium

