Title: Chicken Obeidos
Categories: Poultry
Yield: 6 servings
Flour for dusting
1/4 c  White wine
Salt and pepper
Beurre blanc sauce
Fresh thyme for garnish
Beurre blanc sauce:
2 tb Green onions; chopped
1/4 c  White wine
3    Unsalted butter
White pepper
1/4 c  White wine vinegar
1/8 ts Salt
6    Chicken breasts; cut in hal
-f
2 tb Unsalted butter
1    Green onions; sliced
3 oz Pancetta; or prosciutto, di
-ced
1 1/2 lb Spinach; fresh, stems remov
-ed and broken up
4 oz Feta cheese
1/2 c  Basil; fresh
1/4 c  White wine
Salt and pepper to taste
1/4 ts Cayenne pepper
Melt 2 tablespoons unsalted butter in large skillet; add green
onions and pancetta.  Saute until tender, 3 to 4 minutes. Add
spinach, basil, salt, 1/4 cup white wine and cayenne.  Saute until
spinach is wilted. Remove from heat.  Alow to cool.  Add feta and set
aside.
Place each chicken breast half between two pieces of waxed paper.
Pound with mallet or back of knife until breast is flat. Discard wax
paper and place breast on work surface.  Salt and pepper chicken.
Place 1/12 of spinach filling in the center of each breast.  Roll,
tucking ends in. Secure with toothpicks. Dust with flour.
In large skillet, melt 2 tablespoons unsalted butter.  Add chicken
breasts and brown on all sides.  Add 1/4 cup of wine and thyme.  Lower
heat, cover and simmer until tender, about 10 to 12 minutes.  When
chicken is tender, uncover and allow wine to cook down.  Place
chicken on warm serving dish.  Spoon some of the Beurre Blanc Sauce
over chicken. Garnish with fresh thyme.  Serve with the rest of the
sauce on the side. BEURRE BLANC SAUCE:
Place green onions, wine, vinegar, salt and pepper in saucepan.
Recuce to 2 tablespoons.  Strain, reserving liquid.  In saucepan on
lowest heat, put a small amount of butter.  Melt, and add liquid.
Whisking constantly, add butter a little at a time until all is
blended. Sauce will be slightly thick and cream-colored.  Remove from
heat. Keep warm. Recipe by Sharon Betpouey, Finalist. Source: 1993
Times-Picayune Cookoff

