Title: Chicken in the Pot
Categories: Poultry
Yield: 6 servings
-dill, tied together
2    Cloves garlic, peeled and
-crushed
Salt
1/4 lb Egg noodles
1 tb Finely minced fresh parsley
1    Chicken (3 1/2 pounds), cut
-in half
1 lg Onion, roots trimmed but
-left unpeeled
1 lg Carrot, scraped
1    Stalk celery with leaves
1    Sprig parsley and 1 sprig
Pull off as much of the yellow fat as possible from the chicken.
Place the chicken halves in a 5- to 6-quart pot along with the
gizzard, neck and heart.  (Reserve the liver for another purpose.)
Cover with cold water. Bring to a boil and allow to boil for 5
minutes, skimming off any scum and foam from the surface.

Lower the heat to simmer and add the vegetables, herbs and garlic.
Stir in salt to taste, as much as one tablespoon.  Simmer gently for
1 1/4 hours, until the chicken is done.  Do not let the liquid boil
at any time or the finished product will be cloudy.

When the chicken is done, remove it and the vegetables from the pot
and set it aside, covered, to keep warm.  Strain the liquid through a
fine strainer or a clean linen napkin set in a strainer.  Rinse out
the pot and return the liquid to the pot.  The soup should be clear
and golden, with very little fat on the surface.  Chilling overnight
will allow you to remove all the fat, if you wish.  Dice the carrot,
peel and halve the onion and halve the celery.  Discard the rest of
the cooked vegetables and herbs.

Cook the noodles in a separate pot of boiling water until tender; set
aside, covered, to keep warm.  Remove the skin from the chicken and
cut the chicken into serving pieces.

To serve, reheat the soup to a simmer and return the chicken to the
pot. Simmer for 5 minutes.  Place a few pieces of chicken in each of
four deep bowls along with some of the noodles and diced vegetables.
Ladle hou soup over each serving.  Sprinkle with minced parsley and
serve.

Yield:  Four servings.

[ Florence Fabricant in The New York Times; Jan 3, 1988 ]

Posted by Fred Peters.

