Title: Creamy Chicken in Phyllo Cups
Categories: Poultry
Yield: 2 servings
-skinless,boneless chicken
-breast
Salt
3/4 c  Half and half
2 tb Minced fresh basil or 1 tsp.
-dried basil
1 tb Tomato paste
Basil sprigs for garnish
4    Sheets fresh or frozen
-(thawed) phyllo (about 1/4
-lb.)
Butter or margarine
1/4 lb Medium-sized mushrooms
1 sm Red pepper
1 bn Watercress
1    Whole large
About 45 minutes before serving,preheat oven to 375 degrees.In small
saucepan over low heat,heat 1 tbsp. butter or margarine until
melted.On work surface,place 1 sheet of phyllo (it should be about
16" x 12" rectangle).Brush phyllo lightly with some melted butter or
margarine.Top with second sheet of phyllo.Brush 10 oz. custard cup
with some melted butter or margarine.Line custard cup with
phyllo;fold edges of phyllo up and over to form a high ruffled
edge.Repeat with remaining phyllo to make 2 cups in all.

For easier handling,place custard cups in jelly roll pan.Bake in oven
10 to 15 minutes until phyllo cups are golden brown.Remove custard
cups to wire rack.

Meanwhile, cut mushrooms into quarters; cut pepper into very thin
strips; coarsely chop watercress; place all the vegetables in medium
bowl. Cut chicken breast into 1" cubes; set aside.

In 10" skillet over medium high heat, in 1 Tbs hot butter or
margarine, cook vegetable mixture until vegetables are tender,
stirring constantly. With slotted spoon, remove vegetable mixture to
same bowl. In same skillet over medium high heat, in 1 Tbs hot butter
or margarine, cook chicken with 1/4 tsp salt about 5 minutes or until
lightly browned and fork-tender, stirring constantly. With slotted
spoon, remove chicken to bowl with vegetables. Into drippings
remaining in skillet over high heat, stir half and half, basil,
tomato paste and 1/8 tsp salt; cook, stirring constantly, until
mixture boils. Boil about 2 minutes or until liquid is reduced to
about 1/2 cup. Add chicken mixture to skillet; heat through.

To serve, carefully remove phyllo cups from custard cups onto dinner
plates. Spoon chicken mixture into phyllo cups. Garnish with basil
sprigs.

Makes 2 servings.

