Title: Devils on Horseback
Categories: Appetizers, Seafood, Meats
Yield: 36 servings
-thin, halved crosswise
(1-1/4 lbs.)
1 qt Peanut oil
36 ea Oysters - freshly shucked
Lemon wedges, for garnish
1 1/2 c  All purpose flour
1/2 c  Yellow cornmeal
1 1/2 ts Baking powder
2 ea Eggs - lightly beaten
1 1/4 c  Beer
18 ea Slices bacon - smoked,
1.  In a medium bowl, combine the flour, cornmeal and baking powder.
Make a well in the center.  Add the eggs and beer and whisk until
smooth. Cover the batter and refrigerate for at least 2 hours or
overnight. 2. In a large skillet, working in batches, cook the bacon
over moderate heat, turning frequently, until the fat is rendered and
the bacon just beings to brown but is still soft, about 4 minutes.
Drain on paper towels and let cool. 3. In a deep fryer, wok or large
skillet, heat the oil to 350F over moderately high heat, about 10
minutes.  Meanwhile, wrap each oyster in a piece of bacon and secure
with a toothpick. 4. Stir the batter. Working in batches, dip the
oysters in the batter and then drop into the hot oil. Fry several at
a time, turning, until golden brown and crisp, about 4 minutes. Drain
them on paper towels. Serve immediately with the lemon wedges.

Note from me:  You can also put the oysters and cooked bacon on a
skewer (soak the skewers in water first if they're wooden) instead of
wrapping each oyster in bacon in step 3 (a/k/a locally as "Oysters en
Brochette"). Just dip the whole stick in the batter in step 4 before
dropping into the oil. We don't deep fry very often, as we don't
cotton to many deep fried items as we feel deep frying hides a lot of
flavor(s), especially the subtle ones, and is a mess to deal with. I
am always in a quandry as to how to dispose of the oil.  The best way
to make these is on an outdoor gas cooking setup, so you don't smell
up the house and yourself. Serve with a cream sauce spiked with tasso
(Cajun smoked pork). If you want it to be more attractive, serve on a
bed of pretty lettuce on a salad plate with some of the tasso cream
sauce ladled over the oysters and bacon, which, of course, you've
removed from the skewer. --Michelle Bass Source: Food & Wine,
January, 1991

per serving:
Approx. Cook Time: Cholesterol per
Calories
grams per serving:
serving: Marks:

Submitted By MICHELLE BASS   On   05-10-95

