Title: Exner Chicken Revised #1
Categories: Poultry
Yield: 6 servings
-or mashed
2 1/2 tb Finely grated ginger root
-(do not use powdered)
1/8    To 1/4 tsp cayenne pepper (I
-liked it with 1/4 tsp)
1 1/2 ts Salt
3    Whole chicken breasts (about
-2 1/2 lbs)
1 1/2 tb Apple cider vinegar
3 tb Honey (I used a local
-wildflower honey so try a
-strong one)
6    Samll garlic cloves, minced
freshly ground black pepper to taste About 3 cups thawed frozen or
peeled fresh peaches, drained - reserve juices (use peaches canned in
fruit juice (NOT SYRUP) if you absolutely have to but fresh or frozen
is better) 1 2 Tbsp vegetable oil 2 Tbsp snipped fresh chives or tops
of green onions Sifted cornstarch for dredging 2 Tbsp finely chopped
Italian parsley

Flatten chicken breasts that have been skinned, boned and halved in a
gallon sized Zip-lock bag until about 1/8" to 1/4" thick (cuts down on
spatters that way and you will need it for the marinade) by whacking
them with a wooden rolling pin (do not use a meat mallet unless you
only use the flat side...don't want to poke any holes in the bag). In
a small bowl, combine apple cider vinegar, honey , mashed or minced
garlic cloves, gingerroot, cayenne, salt, freshly ground black pepper
and chopped chives or green onion tops. You may need to zap it in the
microwave to let it mix well as the honey will be hard to stir in.
Pour marinade into the Zip-lock bag that contains the flattened
chicken breasts and close the bag securely.

Turn and squish the bag to coat all sides of the chicken. Let set in
this marinade in the refrigerator for up to 2 hours. Let chicken sit
at room temperature to warm up a little for about ten minutes while
you are assembling the cooking instruments.

Sprinkle the sifted cornstarch onto a plate and set aside. Heat just
enough vegetable oil in a non-stick pan to have a thin layer of oil
over a moderately high heat. One by one, pull the flattened chicken
pieces from marinade and blot lightly on paper toweling to remove
most of the marinade.

Dredge lightly in the sifted corn starch until you have all of the
chicken pieces dusted lightly. Saute them a couple of minutes on each
side until just done through. Remove any oil left in pan. Pour the
rest of the marinade in the Zip-lock bag over the chicken in the pan.
Pour drained peaches over the chicken and marinade. Turn heat down to
medium, stirring as this comes to a boil. Watch to see if it needs
either some of the reserved juice from the peaches or a little
cornstarch/water mixture to thicken juices very slightly. (It will
depend upon how heavily the chicken pieces are dredged with
cornstarch.) Sprinkle with finely chopped Italian parsley and serve
with juices over rice.

Source: Allison Cozzi

