Title: Farareer (Baked "Bird's Nest" Pastries)
Categories: Middle east, Desserts, Pastry
Yield: 14 pastries
;defrosted if frozen
SYRUP:
2 1/2 c  Sugar
1 1/4 c  Water
1 tb Lemon juice, fresh
1/2 ts Rose water
1/2 lb Butter; cut into 1/4 inch
;bits and clarified
3 oz Pistachios; shelled, and
;unsalted, finely chopped
2 tb Sugar
14    Filo sheets; each about 16
;by 12 inches, thoroughly
Preheat  the oven to 400 degrees (F).  With a pastry brush, coat a
large baking sheet with 1 tablespoon of the butter.  coarsely chop
half of the pistachios and set them aside.  Chop  the rest of the
nuts finely and combine them with the 2 tablespoons of sugar.
To assemble each "bird's nest," brush one sheet of filo evenly with
about 1 teaspoon of the butter.  Fold the sheet in half crosswise to
make a tow layered rectangle about 12 by 8 inches.  Brush the top
with about « teaspoon of the butter.  Fold over the long closed side
of the pastry by 1 inch.  Brush the top of the fold lightly with
butter and sprinkle a teaspoon or so of the finely chopped pistachios
in an even row along its length.  Roll and shape the pastry by
rolling the pastry to within 2 inches of the opposite edge and turn
the short ends over. With the filled side facing upward, lift the
ends of the pastry in both hands and lap them over one another to
make a ring about 3 inches in diameter. Crumple the loose pastry up
into the hollow center of the ring to form a nest.
Arrange the pastries on the baking sheet and brush the tops lightly
with the remaining butter.  Bake in the upper third of the oven for
20 minutes, or until  the pastries are crisp and a delicate brown.
Slide them gently onto a large platter and sprinkle the hollow in
each one with a teaspoon or so of the coarsely chopped nuts.

Meanwhile, make the syrup.  In a small, heavy saucepan, bring the
sugar, water and lemon juice to a boil over high heat, stirring until
the sugar dissolves.  Cook briskly, uncovered and undisturbed, for
about 5 minutes, or until the syrup reaches a temperature of 220
degrees on a candy thermometer.  Add the rose water and pour the
syrup into a heatproof bowl or pitcher and let it cool to lukewarm.
Serve the syrup separately with the platter of warm pastries.

112 of 116

Source: Time Life Series: Middle Eastern Cooking,  "circa  69"

MMed by: earl.cravens@salata.com
Submitted By EARL CRAVENS   On   04-28-95

