Title: Fried Chicken with Ginger Dressing
Categories: Chinese, Poultry
Yield: 4 servings
3 tb Chicken stock or broth
2 tb Soy sauce
1 tb Sesame oil
1/3 c  Minced green onion, white
-part only
2 tb Minced pared fresh ginger
-root
2 tb Minced fresh parsley
1 sm Egg white
4 tb Cornstarch
4 c  Vegetable oil
4    Chicken legs with thighs
-attached (about 2 1/2
-pounds)
1 ts Salt
1/8 ts White pepper
2    Green onions
3    Thin slices fresh ginger
-root
2 tb Rice wine
3 c  Shredded iceberg lettuce
1/4 c  Sugar
1/4 c  Rice vinegar
This one is kinda unusual as it calls for frying up joined legs and
thighs then cutting them into one inch bone-in slices after cooking.
This is usually done with whole birds and I don't see why you
couldn't use a whole chicken in this recipe.  You'll need a Chinese
cleaver or a hefty chef's knife for the chopping.

Three of the contributing chefs who created original recipes for the
book are Japanese.  I understand that Chinese food is the favorite
'gaijin' cuisine in Japan and Chinese places abound.  Just an
interesting tidbit...

1.  Sprinkle chicken with salt and pepper; rub to coat evenly. Place
chicken in non aluminum baking pan.  Pound 2 onions and the sliced
ginger root lightly with flat side of cleaver; chop coarsely and
scatter over chicken.  Sprinkle chicken with rice wine.  Marinate at
room temperature, turning chicken once, for 30 minutes.

2.  Arrange lettuce on large serving platter.  Refrigerate covered.

3.  Mix sugar, vinegar, stock, soy sauce and sesame oil in small
saucepan. Stir in minced onion, ginger and parsley.

4.  Whisk egg white in small bowl until foamy and double in volume.
Whisk in 2 tablespoons cornstarch.  Reserve batter.

5.  Heat wok over high heat for 20 seconds; add vegetable oil and
heat to 350F.

6.  Meanwhile, drain chicken; discard marinade.  Pat chicken dry with
paper toweling; dust with 2 tablespoons cornstarch.  Spread batter on
areas of chicken not covered with skin, coating evenly.

7.  Fry 2 chicken pieces at a time, turning once, until crispy and
cooked through, 7 to 9 minutes.  (To test for doneness, pierce
thickest part of drumstick to the bone with tip of knife; juices
should run clear.) Drain chicken on paper toweling, keep warm in a
200F oven. Repeat, frying remaining 2 chicken pieces.

8.  Heat stock mixture over medium heat to simmering.  Reduce heat to
low; simmer for 1 minute.  Keep dressing hot.

9.  Cut warm chicken into 1/2-inch wide slices; use a meat mallet or
hammer to pound cleaver or sturdy chef's knife through bones.
Reassemble chicken slices and place on bed of lettuce.  Pour hot
dressing over chicken. Serve immediately.

Makes 4 servings.

From "Wok Cooking Class Cookbook" by the Editors of Consumers Guide,
Beekman House, N.Y, 1983.  ISBN 0-517-40269-6

Posted by Stephen Ceideberg; February 5 1993.

