Title: Garlic Custard
Categories: Puddings, Herbs/spice, Side dish
Yield: 6 servings
1 ea Whole egg
Salt and freshly ground
-white pepper, to taste
1 tb Olive oil
6 ea Large cloves garlic
2 c  Whipping cream
4 ea Egg yolks
1.  Preheat the oven to 400F.  Lightly oil six 3/4-cup ramekins, and
set them aside. 2. Heat the olive oil in an ovenproof skillet, and
add the garlic.  Saute over medium heat for 1 minute.  Then transfer
the skillet to the oven, and cook until the garlic is soft and
lightly browned, 10 to 12 minutes.  Remove the skillet from the oven,
and reduce the temperature to 350F. 3. Using a slotted spoon,
transfer the garlic to a saucepan. Add the cream and bring to a boil.
Remove the pan from the heat and allow the cream to cool slightly. 4.
Transfer the cream and garlic to a blender and puree thoroughly,
about 1 minute. Pour the puree into a mixing bowl. 5. Combine the egg
yolks and whole egg in a small bowl, and beat well. Slowly whisk them
into the cream mixture.  Season with salt and white pepper. Divide
the cream mixture among the prepared ramekins (about 1/2 cup in
each).  The ramekins should be about three quarters full. 6. Arrange
the ramekins in a baking or roasting pan, and pour boiling water into
the pan until it reaches halfway up the sides of the ramekins. Cover
the ramekins with waxed paper, and then cover the pan tightly with
aluminum foil -- it should be airtight. 7. Place the pan in the oven,
and bake until the custard is just set, 25 to 28 minutes. Serve
immediately, or hold in the oven with the heat off and the door open
for 10 to 15 minutes.

6 portions.

Author's note:  In this unusual version of garlic custard, the cloves
are cooked until they begin to "caramelize" in their cooking juices.
The result is a gentle, rich custard with a heady aroma -- utterly
delicious. Serve it with roasted meats or poultry.

Recipe from Stephan Pyle, co-owner and chef of Baby Routh and Routh
Street Cafe in Dallas, and of Goodfellow's and Tejas in Minneapolis.
Source: The New Basics Cookbook

per serving:
Approx. Cook Time: Cholesterol per
Calories
grams per serving:
serving: Marks:

Submitted By MICHELLE BASS   On   05-10-95

