Title: Gesmoorde Vis (Salt Cod & Potatoes with Tomato Sauce)
Categories: African, Seafood
Yield: 4 servings
1 tb Plus 1 teaspoon finely
-chopped fresh hot chilies
1 ts Finely chopped garlic
1 tb Light-brown sugar
1    Lemon, cut lengthwise into
-4 or 6 wedges
Parsley sprigs
1 lb Salt cod
3 md Boiling potatoes (about 1
-pound)
4 md Firm ripe tomatoes
3 tb Vegetable oil
3 sm Onions, peeled and cut
-crosswise into slices 1/8
-inch thick
Starting a day ahead, place the cod in a glass, enameled or
stainless-steel pan or bowl.  Cover it with cold water and soak for
at least 12 hours, gently squeezing the cod dry and changing the
water every 3 or 4 hours.

Drain the cod, rinse it thoroughly under cold running water, and cut
it into 1-inch pieces.

Drop the potatoes into enough lightly salted boiling water to cover
them completely and cook briskly, uncovered, until they are almost
tender and show only slight resistance when pierced with the point of
a sharp knife. Drain and peel the potatoes and cut them into 1-inch
cubes.

Place the tomatoes in a pan of boiling water and let them boil
briskly for about 10 seconds.  Run cold water over them, and peel
them with a small, sharp knife.  Cut the tomatoes crosswise into
1/8-inch- thick rounds.

In a heavy 10 to 12-inch skillet, heat the oil over moderate heat
until a light haze forms above it.  Drop in the onions and, stirring
frequently, cook for 8 to 10 minutes, or until they are soft and
golden brown. Watch carefully for any sign of burning and regulate
the heat accordingly. Add the tomatoes, 1 tablespoon of the chilies,
the garlic and sugar, and cook briskly, uncovered, stirring from time
to time, until most of the liquid in the pan has evaporated and the
mixture is thick enough to hold its shape lightly in a spoon.

Stir in the cod and potatoes, reduce the heat to low, and cover
tightly. Simmer for 20 to 25 minutes, or until the fish flakes easily
when prodded gently with a fork.  Taste for seasoning.

Serve the gesmoorde vis at once, mounded on a heated platter or in a
large bowl.  Sprinkle with the remaining teaspoon of chopped chilies
and arrange the lemon wedges and parsley sprigs decoratively on top.
Serve accompanied, if you like, by hot boiled rice and lemon or green
bean atjar.

Makes 4 to 6 servings.

From "African Cooking", Laurens van der Post and the editors of Time
Life Books, "Foods of the World" series, 1970.  LOC # 77-119620.

Posted by Stephen Ceideberg; February 24 1993.

