Title: Goan Pork Vindaloo in Pungent Brown Sauce
Categories: Indian, Meats
Yield: 1 servings
2 ts Black mustard seeds
3/4 ts Black pepper corns
2 tb Minced fresh ginger
2 tb Minced garlic
1/2 c  Cider vinegar
1/2 c  Peanut oil
2    Onions, chopped
Salt
2 lb Boneless pork shoulder
1 1/2    Piece tamarind pulp (see
-note)
14    Dried red chile peppers,
-seeded, coarsely chopped
1 1/2    Sticks cinnamon
20    Cloves teaspoons Coriander
-seeds
2 ts Cumin seeds
It's interesting, as I go through this humungous pile of newspapers,
to see how my tastes have changed over the past three years.  Some of
the things I marked then, I find myself discarding now.  Some of the
stuff that didn't interest me at the time, I'm scanning to save. This
one was on the list then and is still on the list.

Trim the meat and cut into 3/4-inch pieces.

Place the tamarind in a nonmetallic bowl; pour in 1 1/2 cups hot
water and let soak at least 1 hour.  Work the tamarind with fingers
to squeeze out as much pulp and juice as possible.  Strain into a
bowl and set aside. Discard the residue.

Heat a dry skillet over medium heat.  Add the chile peppers, cinnamon
sticks, cloves, coriander seeds, cumin seeds, mustard seeds and black
peppercorns; roast the spices, stirring and shaking the skillet
constantly, until the coriander, cumin and chile peppers turn several
shades darker, and all the spices release their fragrance.  This will
take 3 to 4 minutes, Transfer to a bowl and let cool.  Grind the
spices in a spice grinder and set aside.

Put the ginger and garlic in a medium-sized non metallic bowl with the
vinegar.  Blend in the ground, roasted spices.  Add the meat and mix
thoroughly to coat with the spice mixture.  Cover the bowl and
refrigerate overnight or up to 48 hours.

Heat the oil in a heavy pan, add onions and cook until they turn
reddish brown, 12 to 20 minutes.  Add the meat (with its marinade) in
two batches, stirring and searing the pieces over medium-high heat.
Reduce heat to medium and cook, stirring frequently, until almost all
the liquid evaporates and fat separates from the mixture.  You will
see small pools of fat on the surface.

Stir in the tamarind and some salt; cover and simmer until the meat
is very tender, about 1 hour.  Check the water content from time to
time, and add 1/4 cup hot water once or twice.  Serve hot with
steamed rice.

NOTE:  Tamarind is found in cake form at Indian markets.

San Francisco Chronicle, 12/7/88.

Posted by Stephen Ceideberg; November 2 1992.

