Title: Grandma's Greek Salad
Categories: Salads, Jewish, Seafood, Side dish
Yield: 2 quarts??
1 bn Scallions; sliced
2 sl To 3 slices schmaltz herring
-OR use pickled herring; cut
-into small 1/2"x1/2" pieces
1 sm Head of cabbage (or use 1/2
-of a large head); shredded
4    Plum tomatoes; diced into
-1" pieces
MMMMM---------------------MARINADE/DRESSING--------------------------
pn Sugar, if needed
ds White wine, if desired
1/2 c  Mayonnaise (more or less)
1/4 c  Vinegar (any kind) to taste
Ingredient amounts are approximate and can vary according to
preference and taste. I sometimes add more tomatoes to the dish after
it's been melded for a day or two. More or less herring can be used
as well.

In a really LARGE mixing bowl, mix the shredded cabbage, diced
tomatoes, sliced scallions and herring bits together.

In a smaller mixing bowl whisk the vinegar into the mayonnaise until
the taste is a balance between the two. You shouldn't be able to
taste the mayonnaise as a separate flavor but neither should it be
too vinegary. You also don't want it too watery but thick enough to
coat the cabbage. Add a pinch or two of sugar to help balance if
necessary and a dash or two of white wine if desired.

Pour over the cabbage mixture and toss thoroughly. Cover the top of
bowl with a lid or saran wrap and put in fridge for at least 2 days.
Every 8 hours or so you should stir the mixture together and taste.
After 24 hours, adjust taste by adding more vinegar or an additional
pinch of sugar, depending upon whether or not it's too vinegary or
not vinegary enough. After 2 days it should be sufficiently melded to
eat though I've been known to grab a plateful sooner. <grin> The
taste should be similar to coleslaw but more refreshing because of
the added tomatoes and heartier because of the herring. In other
words, it should give you a decent pucker. :)

Serve as a side dish or for lunch with a firm Jewish Rye Bread!
Mmmmm, it's delicious!

NOTE: If you use schmaltz herring you may want to soak in water for
30 min. to 1 hour to remove some of the saltiness.

Source: .\\ichele Cooks Grandma's Way! (c) 1995
Submitted By MICHELE STEWART   On   04-24-95

