Title: How To Make Your Own Filo
Categories: Middle east, Pastry, Desserts, Information
Yield: 20 sheets
4 tb Olive oil
Cornstarch
6 c  Flour, all purpose
2 ts Salt
2 c  Water, lukewarm
Sift the flour and salt into a deep mixing bowl.  Beating
constantly with a large spoon, pour in the water in a thin, slow
stream and beat until the flour and water are well blended.  Then
knead the dough in the bowl by pressing it down, pushing it forward
several times with the heel of your hand and folding it back on
itself. Repeat for 5 to 10 minutes, or until the dough can be
gathered into a soft, somewhat sticky ball.
Add the olive oil, 1 tablespoon at a time, kneading well after each
addition and continue kneading for about 25 minutes longer, or until
the dough is smooth and satiny.  Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and
let the dough rest at room temperature for at least 2 hours. (Tightly
covered, the dough can be kept at room temperature overnight or for
about 12 hours, or in the refrigerator for a week or so.  If
refrigerated, it should be brought to room temperature before it is
rolled.)
When you are ready to roll and use the dough, divide it into 20
equal portions and shape each piece into a ball about 1 « inches in
diameter. Sprinkle a smoothly woven kitchen towel with a little
cornstarch and, one at a time, roll each ball with a rolling pin into
a round about 7 inches in diameter.  As they are rolled, place the
rounds between strips of wax paper and stack them on a plate.  Then
cover all the rounds with a kitchen towel and let them rest for about
30 minutes.
To shape each sheet of filo, stretch it over the backs of your
hands by lifting the dough and pulling your hands apart repeatedly
until the filo is paper thin.  Working quickly but gently, you should
be able to form a sheet about 14 inches wide and 18 inches long. Trim
off the thick edges to make a 12 by 16 inch rectangle.
Freshly made filo dries out so quickly that it should be buttered or
shaped as described in the recipe you are following before you
proceed to roll and stretch the next sheet.  A home baker cannot make
filo as thin as the commercial product; therefore, use only half as
many layers as called for in a recipe, and cut the rectangle in half
instead of folding it.

116 of 116

Source: Time Life Series: Middle Eastern Cooking,  "circa  69"

MMed by: earl.cravens@salata.com
Submitted By EARL CRAVENS   On   04-28-95

