Title: Kadin Gobegi ("Lady's Navel" Fritters
Categories: Middle east, Turkish, Desserts, Pastry
Yield: 24 fritters
2 c  Flour, all purpose
3    Egg
Vegetable oil; for deep
;frying
1 ts Almond extract
1/4 c  Heavy cream; chilled,
;stiffly whipped
SYRUP:
2 c  Sugar
2 c  Water
1/2 ts Lemon juice, fresh
FRITTERS et al:
1 1/2 c  Water
3 tb Butter
1/8 ts Salt
Syrup:
To make the syrup, combine the sugar, 2 cups of water, and the lemon
juice in a small saucepan and bring to a boil over moderate heat,
stirring until the sugar dissolves.  Increase the heat to high and
cook briskly, uncovered, for 5 minutes, or until the syrup reaches a
temperature of 220 degrees (F) on a candy thermometer.  Set aside off
the heat and let the syrup cool to room temperature.

In a heavy 2 to 3 quart saucepan, bring the 1 « cups of water, the
butter and salt to a boil over high heat, stirring until the butter
melts. Pour in the flour all at once, and beat vigorously with a
wooden spoon until the mixture is blended and becomes an almost solid
doughy mass. Immediately make a well in the center of the paste with
the spoon. Break an egg into the well and beat vigorously until it
has been absorbed. Beat in the remaining eggs, one at a time. The
finished paste should be thick, smooth and shiny.
In a large deep fat fryer with a frying thermometer, or an electric
deep fryer, heat 3 to 4 inches of oil to a temperature of 360.  For
each fritter, pinch off 2 tablespoons of dough and roll it into a
ball 1 inch in diameter.  Dip a thumb into the almond extract and
press it into the center of the ball, making a depression « inch
deep. In batches of 5 or 6, deep fry the fritters for 10 to 12
minutes, turning them occasionally to brown them evenly.  Plunge the
browned fritters in the syrup, let them steep for 5 minutes, then
transfer them to a platter and cool to room temperature. Before
serving, drop a teaspoon of whipped cream into the depression in each
fritter.

107 of 116

Source: Time Life Series: Middle Eastern Cooking,  "circa  69"

MMed by: earl.cravens@salata.com
Submitted By EARL CRAVENS   On   04-28-95

