Title: Layered Chef's Salad with Tuna Mayonnaise Dressing
Categories: Salads, Dress/stuff
Yield: 6 servings
1/2 c  Nicoise olives, pitted
4 oz Hard salami, julienned
4    Hard-cooked eggs, peeled
Salt to taste
8 oz Smoked turkey breast,
Julienned
1    Sweet red pepper, cored,
Seeded & cut into rings
1/2 c  Torn arugula leaves
6 oz Jar marinated artichoke
Hearts, drained & sliced
5 oz Proscuitto, julienned
1 lb Asparagus spears -OR-
Broccoli florets, blanched
3 c  Mixed torn greens (romaine,
Red leaf lettuce, radicchio
And arugula)
4    Scallions, sliced
3    Ripe tomatoes, seeded &
Sliced
4    Sun-dried tomatoes (packed
In oil), drained & chopped
1 c  Fresh basil leaves
12 oz Smoked mozzaerlla cheese
Freshly ground black pepper
To taste
1 c  Alfalfa sprouts
1 md Red onion, sliced
MMMMM----------------------TUNA MAYONNAISE---------------------------
1 c  Olive oil
1/2 c  Vegetable oil
Salt & freshly ground black
Pepper, to taste
6 1/2 oz Can tuna (packed in oil)
1/2 c  Sour cream
4    Egg yolks
3    Anchovy fillets, chopped
1 tb Capers, drained
3 tb Fresh lemon juice
1 tb Dijon mustard
1/3 c  Chopped fresh Italian
Parsley
NOTE:  This salad must be made 6 to 24 hours before serving and
should be arranged in a large clear glass bowl with straight sides to
show off all the layers. SALAD: Toss the greens with 2 of the sliced
scallions in a large glass bowl. Top with the fresh tomatoes and then
with the sun-dried tomatoes. Sprinkle half the basil over the
tomatoes.  Thinly slice 8 oz of the mozarella and arrange on the
basil layer.  Sprinkle with freshly ground black pepper to taste.
Grate the remaining 4 oz mozarella and set aside. Top the sliced
cheese with separate layers of alfalfa sprouts, onion, half the
olives, and all the salami. Process the eggs, the remaining 2
scallions, and salt and pepper to taste in a food processor fitted
with a steel blade just until the eggs are chopped. Spoon on top of
the salami layer.  Place the turkey julienne over the eggs. Then add
the red pepper and scatter with the 1/2 c arugula. Layer artichoke
hearts on top of the arugula and cover with the proscuitto julienne.
Top with the remaining basil leaves, sprinkle with more pepper, and
add the reserved grated mozarella.  Make a final layer of the
asparagus, arranged in a spoke pattern, or the broccoli florets.
MAYONNAISE:  Process the egg yolks, anchovies, capers, lemon juice,
mustard, and parsley in a food processor fitted with a steel blade
for 15 seconds.  With the machine running, pour the oils in a thin
steady stream through the feed tube to make a thick mayonnaise.
Season to taste with salt and pepper. Flake the tuna and add it with
its oil to the mayonnaise.  Process until thoroughly blended. Scrape
into a small bowl, fold in the sour cream, and taste and adjust
seasonings.  Refrigerate covered until ready to use. FINAL: Spread a
thick layer of the tuna mayonnaise on top of the salad. Garnish with
the remaining olives.  Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate 6 to
24 hours. Use 2 large salad spoons to get down through all layers to
serve. From The Silver Palate Good Times Cookbook by Julee Russo &
Sheila Lukins. Submitted By TERRI WOLTMON   On   04-27-95

