Title: Loukoumades (Deep-Fried Fritters with Honey Syrup)
Categories: Middle east, Greek, Desserts, Pastry
Yield: 36 fritters
1 1/2 c  Water, lukewarm; 110 to 115
;degrees (F)
3 c  Flour, all purpose
1/2 ts Salt
1/2 c  Milk; lukewarm 110 to 115
1    Egg
Vegetable shortening; for
;deep fat frying
SYRUP:
1 c  Sugar
1/2 c  Honey
1/2 c  Water, warm
1 tb Lemon juice, fresh
FRITTERS:
1    Active dry yeast package
pn Sugar
Syrup:
To make the syrup, combine the sugar, honey, water and lemon juice
in a small saucepan and cook, stirring constantly, until the sugar
dissolves. Increase the heat to high and cook briskly, uncovered and
undisturbed, until the syrup reaches a temperature of 220 on a candy
thermometer, or until the syrup thickens sufficiently to coat a spoon
lightly. Pour the syrup into a bowl or heatproof pitcher and set
aside to cool.

Fritters:
In a small, shallow bowl, sprinkle the yeast and a pinch of sugar
over 1/4 cup of the lukewarm water.  Let stand for 2 or 3 minutes,
then stir to dissolve the yeast completely.  Set the bowl in a warm,
draft free place (such as an unlighted oven) for 8 to 10 minutes, or
until the mixture doubles in volume.
Combine the flour and salt in a deep mixing bowl, make a well in the
center and pour in the yeast, milk and 1 cup of lukewarm water.  Drop
in the egg and stir the center ingredients together with a spoon.
Then slowly incorporate the flour and beat vigorously until the
batter is smooth and just thick enough to hold its shape in a
flexible ribbon when the spoon is lifted from the bowl.  If the
batter is too rigid, beat in up to 1/4 cup more lukewarm water, a
tablespoon at a time. Drape a kitchen towel loosely over the bowl and
set aside in a warm, draft free place for about 45 minutes until the
batter doubles in bulk.
Preheat the oven to 200 degrees, and line a large shallow roasting
pan with a double thickness of paper towels.
In a deep fat fryer with a frying thermometer or an electric deep
fryer or saucepan, heat 3 to 4 inches of oil or shortening until it
reaches a temperature or 375.  Dip a tablespoon in cold water, scoop
up a level measure of the batter and, with another spoon push it into
the hot oil. Repeat until you have made 6 fritters, dipping the
spoons into the cold water before scooping each measure of batter.
Turning the fritters frequently with a slotted spoon to keep them
apart, fry them for 2 or 3 minutes, or until golden brown.  Transfer
them to the lined pan to keep warm in the oven while you fry the
remaining fritters.
To serve, mound the fritters on a large platter and pour the syrup
evenly over them.  Or, if you prefer, pass the syrup separately in a
pitcher. Loukoumades are sometimes served sprinkled with ground
cinnamon or chopped nuts.

108 of 116

Source: Time Life Series: Middle Eastern Cooking,  "circa  69"

MMed by: earl.cravens@salata.com
Submitted By EARL CRAVENS   On   04-28-95

