Title: Lower-Fat Tofu Mayonnaise
Categories: Salsa/sauce
Yield: 40 tbsp.
-- (extra firm)
1/2 c  Vegetable oil
1 ts Salt
1 ts Sugar or other sweetener
1/2 c  Lemon juice
1/4 c  White wine vinegar
1/4 c  Water
2 tb Agar flakes
10 oz "Lite" Mori-Nu Silken tofu
In a small saucepan, heat lemon juice, vinegar, water and agar flakes
over low heat until agar is dissolved. (If you use broken-up agar
strands instead of flakes, as I do, it's alright if the pieces are
not completely dissolved, as long as they are very soft.)

Place tofu in food processor and process until smooth.  Add agar
mixture and process until thoroughly combined.  With machine running,
gradually pour in oil and continue to beat until oil is mixed in
completely. Season mayonnaise with salt and sugar to taste;
refrigerate. Stir thoroughly after mixture has cooled slightly,
breaking up lumps, until mayonnaise is smooth and creamy.  Store in
the refrigerator.

Makes 2-1/2 cups

Each tablespoon contains approximately 2.9 grams of fat, 28 calories,
and 65 milligrams of sodium.  (You can easily cut the sodium by using
less salt in this recipe.)

When chilled completely, this mayonnaise is thick enough to use as a
base to create a dip for crackers or vegetables.  Or spread it on
sandwiches -- plain, or with your choice of flavorings added.
Suggested additions would include: Dijon mustard; curry or chili
powder; chopped parsley and/or dill; minced (drained) oil-packed
sun-dried tomatoes and chopped fresh herbs; minced garlic, jalapenos
and cilantro; finely grated citrus zest; or whatever sounds good to
you!

NOTE: If you can tolerate the extra fat and calories, you can add 1/4
cup more oil to this recipe and the mayo will be extra thick and
creamy - quite close to the regular commercial type, but with less
fat and no cholesterol. I've tried other brands of tofu for this
(specifically, organically-produced tofu), but the Mori-Nu Silken was
the mildest flavored.

Copyright 1995 Karen Mintzias
Submitted By KAREN MINTZIAS   On   05-10-95

