Title: Mee Krob (Thai Crisp Fried Noodles)
Categories: Thai, Pasta
Yield: 1 servings
-finely sliced.
3 tb Soy sauce.
Juice from 2 limes.
2 tb Rice vinegar.
4    Or 5 tablespoons sugar,
-granulated, brown or palm.
3 tb Fish sauce.
3 tb Small shrimp++cooked or raw.
4    Eggs, beaten.
Handful of bean sprouts
6    Green onions, finely
-chopped.
4 tb Fresh cilantro, chopped
2    Green onions, cut for
-decoration.
2 bn Rice vermicelli, about 8
-ounces
Oil for deep frying
1 lg Onion, finely chopped
5    Garlic cloves, finely
-chopped
1/2 lb Pork fillet, sliced and cut
-into 1" long pieces
1    Whole chicken breast,
-boned, sliced and cut into
-1" pieces.
6    Dried Chinese mushrooms
-(shiitake), soaked and
-finely sliced.
2 sm Fresh chilies, seeded and
Optional stuff: crab meat, bean curd, dried shrimp

Tear noodles into handful bunches (inside a large shopping bag to
avoid a mess).  Heat oil and fry the noodles until they puff up. Flip
over for a few seconds.  Do this by bunches and drain in bag. Pour
off oil, leaving 6 tablespoons in wok.  Fry the onions and garlic
lightly.

Add pork and cook it through.  Add chicken and fry until it turns
white. Put in mushrooms and chilies and reduce heat.  In a bowl,
combine soy sauce, lime juice, vinegar, sugar and fish sauce.  Add to
wok and simmer until liquid is reduced by half and starting to turn
syrupy. Add shrimp and cook for 1 minute.  Push contents of wok to
the sides and pour beaten eggs into center of wok.  Let set for a
minute then stir and add the bean sprouts and drained noodles.  Toss
LIGHTLY (the noodles are fragile) to mix ingredients and then let
heat through. Transfer to serving platter and garnish with cilantro
and green onions.

NOTE:  Rice vermicelli are also known as rice sticks or cellophane
noodles depending on where you find them.  All the Asian cuisines
that I've encountered have some variation of them.  Use the thinnest
you can find. Other kinds of noodles won't work.  When they hit the
hot oil, they kinda go "whooosh" and double or triple in size and
turn a milky white. Kids really like to watch the process.  The oil
MUST be fresh and hot (375F to 400F) or the centers may be tough.

This recipe makes enough for 6-8 people.  I'd recommend halving it
for less than that.  It's a sweet/sour dish with the emphasis on the
sweet. Very tasty and rich.

Posted by Stephen Ceideberg; September 28 1992.

