Title: Octopus Salad
Categories: Down under, Salads
Yield: 6 servings
1    Text Only
Ain't a bit of squid here!  Instead we fall back on the squid's
digitally impaired cousin, the octopus...  The author of the original
article, Meryl Constance, cautions buyers to make sure that the
octopi one buys are pre-tenderized.  She notes that traditional
Australian methods for tenderizing octopi include using rocks,
bricks, cement mixers and even washing machines.  (No kiddin'!)

Raw Materials first encountered this salad in Argentina, where it
could be bought from top-flight delicatessen counters for an instant
picnic. The pink of the octopus pieces with the green of the herbs
makes this a very pretty salad.

Prepare a 2 to 3 kg octopus and precook it.  [See note below.  S.C.]

While it is cooking, whisk together in a glass bowl 300 mL good olive
oil, the juice of 1 or 2 lemons (taste and stop when the balance is
right), salt, pepper and generous amounts of finely chopped garlic,
shallots, chives and parsley.  The dressing should be thick with the
herbs. When the octopus is tender, drain it, cut it up into generous
chunks and, while it is still warm, fold it into the dressing.  Serve
the salad at room temperature, with plenty of crusty bread.

NOTE:  Chances are if you buy your cephalopod in a supermar-ket in
the US it will already be cooked.  If not, follow these steps from
earlier in the article...

"Cut through the head/body above and below the eyes.  Discard this
section. Slit the back of the head and turn it inside out, discarding
all the contents (unless you want to keep the ink sac for a
particular recipe). Push the beak (in the center of the star of
tentacles) through and out...Skinning is quite unnecessary and very
fiddly. If you prefer to do so, it is much easier after cooking than
before.

A large octopus needs precooking for many dishes.  Put it in a
saucepan and just cover with lightly salted water.  Simmer gently
until the point of a knife slides easily into the meat++maybe one
hour, maybe longer.

The deep mauve stock which results need not be discarded when you
drain the octopus.  It is very rich (in fact, it will often set to a
jelly in the fridge) and makes a wonderful soup..."

Makes 6 to 8 servings.

From Meryl Constance' column in the Sydney Morning Herald, "Raw
Materials". 3/2/93.  Courtesy, Mark Herron.

Posted by Stephen Ceideburg

