Title: Paul Bunyan Pasties
Categories: Meats, Pie/tart
Yield: 6 servings
-onion
1/2 ts Salt
1/4 ts Salt
1 tb Butter
1/4 ts "Accent" if on hand
1 1/2 lb Steak (round or sirloin)
-cubed
3 c  Potatoes (sliced thin)
1/2 c  Finely grated carrot or
-rutabaga
1/2 c  Chopped onion or 1 large
The UP (Upper Peninsula of Michigan) is well known for it's pasties.
I was up there this weekend opening up our cottage on Lake Michigan
and so I stopped in at Paul Bunyan's for a couple of pasties. The
folks that run the place are two of the nicest people you could meet.
They have a "Worlds Largest Pastie" bake each Memorial weekend. This
is from them.

Paul Bunyan Pasties Highway U.S. 2, West St. Ignace, Michigan 49781

Paul Bunyan Pasties

Filling:

Mix cubes of steak, potatoes, carrot or rutabaga and onion together
in a large bowl. Add salt and pepper. Don't allow to stand too long
otherwise potatoes will turn dark.

Crust: 3 cups flour 1/3 cup vegetable shortening a pinch of salt 1/3
cup water

Mix flour, salt and shortening together. Gradually mix in water using
a fork. Pat into one ball. Divide into smaller balls and roll the
dough out to the size of an 8" pie tin.

Baking:

Place 1 cup mixed filling on half of a rolled crust, fold over and
seal the edges. Brush with milk and bake at 475 degrees for 20
minutes. Reduce heat to 375 degrees for 20 additional minutes.

One more pastie recipe from Paul Bunyan. (Not the one they use)

The Pasty (from a brochure from Paul Bunyan Pasties)

The Pasty was the chief diet of the miners about 150 years ago.
Pasties were made with a variety of fillings to suit the individual's
taste. Each pasty was marked at one end with the initials of the
person for whom it was made. The pasty was a convenient meal for the
miner to take underground and hundreds of thousands must have been
eaten in the mines.

To make a pasty, prepare a firm pastry dough and roll out to a 12"
circle. On one half of the circle put 1 cup finely chopped vegetables
~ potatoes, onions and turnips (rutabaga). Mix 1/2 cup of beef cut
into little pieces with the vegetables. Season with salt, pepper and
butter. Wet the edges of the pastry and fold it over to make a half
circle. Crimp the edges together by pinching with the left hand and
folding it over with the right, making a rope-like edge. Place on a
baking sheet and bake at 350 for one hour. Then taste the unique
flavor of a pasty as it was enjoyed by the miners of yesterday. This
is from their Invitation Brochure.

From: Bill Mackela

