Title: Phoebe's Friday Night Chicken Special
Categories: Poultry
Yield: 6 servings
Cheap White Wine
Oregano
Sweet Basil
1 cn Cream of Mushroom Soup
1    Paper Sack (for shaking up
-chicken)
1    Stool (for seeing over the
-stove)
2    Chicken Breasts
1    Egg
1    Glop of milk
Salt and Pepper
1/2 c  Flour
Cornflakes
Olive Oil
3 tb Margarine (or Butter)
Aunt Pearl writes:  "Phoebe Berkhalter and her husband, Farley, are
little people.  Walking into their house, with all their little
furni- ture that Farley makes out in his workshop, is like a bad
carnival ride. The little TV on the little handmade TV stand makes
you feel like you're in Alice in Wonderland.  I couldn't sit in the
little chairs they have, so Phoebe served me this dish out on the
front porch, where I felt less dizzy. She makes a little of it for
Farley every Friday night.  Here is the recipe in Phoebe's own words."

Kill one chicken and rip out its breast.  Beat one egg lightly with a
glop of milk.  Add salt and pepper to mixture, and set aside. Wash
off them breasts, throw 'em in a sack with flour, and I throw in four
handfuls of crushed-up cornflakes.  (that's probably one handful for
big people.) Shake 'em up good in the sack, but close it first.

Heat 1/4 inch of olive oil in a medium skillet over a medium flame
until a water drop thrown in sizzles right off.  Take them breasts
out of the sack, dip 'em in the egg mixture, and drop 'em in the
skillet. Brown both sides. Remove breasts from skillet, pour off the
oil, wipe out the pan, turn burner down real low, add about 3
tablespoons of margarine to skillet, and put breasts back in.  Pour
some cheap white wine over them breasts; season with lots of oregano
and sweet basil.

Put a lid on the skillet, then leave it simmering for 15 minutes or so
while you read the funny papers.  Spoon in cream of mushroom soup on
top of them breasts, add some more oregano and basil, and replace the
lid. Continue simmering for another 20 minutes.  Eat them breasts
with the mushroom goop in the pan spread over them.

From Aunt Pearl's Cookbook: A Man's Cooking, by Joe Sears

(We have had this several times, and it is terrific!!!  In addition
to the adjustments which we made to the basic recipe, as shown below,
we served it over white steamed rice.  We made these changes:
Instead of putting the crushed corn flakes in the paper sack with the
flour, I just added the salt and pepper to the flour.  I crushed the
corn flakes and placed them in a separate bowl.  I first placed the
chicken breasts in the bag, shook it well, then into the egg substi-
tute (which we used instead of real eggs), and then into the bowl
with the crushed corn flakes. Then, as Phoebe would say, "drop 'em in
the skillet". I used about 4 to 5 ounces of white wine. We prepared
two whole breasts, skinned and de-boned.  For the two of us, we only
ate one breast, one-half each.  We had steamed rice and steamed mixed
vegetables with the chicken.  Please enjoy, and don't skimp on the
oregano and basil.)

