Title: Potato Information
Categories: Information, Vegetables, Potato
Yield: 1 servings  A humble tuber, the potato was keenly cultivated by the Incas
thousand of years ago. Like the tomato and eggplant, the potato
belongs to the nightshade family which was considered throughout
Europe be to poisonous. Instrumental in its European acceptance was
Sir WAlter Raleigh who planted potatoes on his Irish property. The
rest, they say, is history. The potato flourished and commands
respect as a complete and nourishing food.

A potato low in moisture, low in sugar with high starch, is termed
floury. Floury specimens bake and mash perfectly and will render
golden coloured chips or roast potatoes. Because of their low sugar
they are harder to brown and tend to collapse with boiled. one the
other hand a waxy potato high in moisture with low starch, holds its
shape and remains firm when boiled. These potato varieties are best
for salads or scalloped.

Potato Shapes Our tuber assumes some facsinating shapes. Generally
speaking the shape often relates to the starch content. Fortunely
this makes identifying the use easier. Ovals Long oval- Long and
slighly rounded they include the Russet varieties and the New
Potatoes. Low moisture and high starch makes them floury and
therefore superior baking potatoes that are excellent for French
fries, crisping and roasting. Examples: agria (yellow), desiree (red)
Short oval- With more moisture and less starch their waxy quality
produce good boiling potatos. They are usually a good all purposse
potato. Ex: bildatar, draga, fianna, fresia, ilam hardy, iwa, jersy
benner, nadine, peru peru, rua, sebego, stroma Rounds Red and White-
They ar a waxy potato and often referred to as boiling potatoes. Good
roasters and some are great for mashing. (Rima is a good New Zealand
example) Kidney shaped Not so common and obviously shaped like a
lambs kidney, these waxy potatoes are boulers and not suitable for
frying or crisping. In New Zealand Cliff Kidney occasionaly appears
at the greengrocer.

Storage Store potatoes in a cool dark, well ventilated place for up
to six weeks. use new potatoes within 4 days of purchase.
Refrigerating potatoes causes them to sweeten and turn dark when
cooked. Warm temperatures encourage sprouting and shrivelling.

From: Cuisine NZ, July 1994 Posted by: Joell Abbott 7/94 reposted 5/95
Submitted By JOELL ABBOTT   On   05-04-95

