Title: Salmon in Pesto Sauce
Categories: Chinese, Seafood
Yield: 2 servings
2 tb Minced fresh ginger root
2 tb Peanut oil
1 lb Salmon fillet, in I or 2
-pieces
1 tb Cornstarch
2    Cloves garlic, peeled and
-minced
2 tb Minced scallions
1 tb Minced cilantro
3 tb Lemon juice
3 tb Rice vinegar
3 tb Light soy sauce
2 tb Sugar
1/2 ts Salt
1/2 ts Crushed Sichuan peppercorns
1/4 ts Freshly ground black popper
1 tb Dry Sherry
1 tb Sesame oil
Check this one out.  It has "pesto" in the title, but has no basil in
it and is a Chinese recipe.  Hmmm...

In a small bowl, combine lemon juice, rice vinegar, 2 Tbs. light soy
sauce, sugar, salt, Sichuan peppercorns and black pepper.  Set aside.
In a separate bowl, combine remaining I Tbs. soy sauce, Sherry,
sesame oil and 1 Tbs. ginger.  Rub fish with mixture and marinate for
at least 20 minutes. (This can be done several hours in advance.)

Fill a large pan with water and bring to rapid boil.  Meanwhile,
place a layer of foil in a Chinese steamer tray, covering tray except
for 1 inch around edges to allow steam to circulate.  Rub foil with a
little peanut oil.  Lay salmon on foil in tray and place tray over
boiling water. Cover and steam salmon until light pink, just firm to
touch and flakes when tested with fork.  (A 1/2-inch-thick fillet
should take about 5 minutes.)

In a small bowl, combine cornstarch with 1 Tbs. cold water. Place a
10-inch saute pan over medium-high heat.  Add 1 Tbs. peanut oil. When
hot, add remaining ginger and garlic.  Saute for 15 seconds, then add
lemon juice mixture.  Bring to slow boil, stir in scallions and
cilantro, then stir in small amount cornstarch mixture to lightly
thicken sauce. Remove from heat.

When salmon is cooked, remove steamer tray and lift fish out on foil.
Slide fish onto platter or dinner plates.  Spoon sauce over fish.
Serve at once.

Serves 2 as a main course, 6 as part of a multi-course Asian dinner.

NOTE:  Salmon is excellent served at room temperature or eaten cold
while you stand in front of the refrigerator.  The pesto sauce is
good on any steamed, baked, broiled, or grilled firm-fleshed fish
fillet.

From the Hayward Daily Review, 9/21/88.

Posted by Stephen Ceideberg; November 4 1992.

