Title: Shahi Korma (Lamb in Saffron & Cardamom Cream Sauce)
Categories: Indian, Meats
Yield: 1 servings
3    Bay leaves
1    Fresh ginger, grated
4 lg Garlic cloves, minced
2 lb Boneless lamb, cut into
-1/2-inch cubes
1 c  Fresh, sweet, unflavored
-yogurt
Salt
1/4 c  Heavy cream
1 tb Rose water
1/4 c  Blanched almonds
1 tb Cumin seeds
4 ts Coriander seeds
1    Or 2 teaspoons cayenne
-pepper
1 ts Saffron threads
3 tb Hot milk
6 tb Ghee or clarified butter
-(see note)
2 md Onions, chopped
5    Black cardamom pods
-cinnamon sticks
4    Cloves
Grind the cumin and coriander seeds in a spice mill, combine with the
red pepper and place near the stove.  Soak the saffron in hot milk.

Heat the ghee or clarified butter in a large, shallow, heavy pan.

Stir in the onions, cardamom pods, cinnamon, cloves and bay leaves.
Cook over medium heat, stirring frequently, until the onions begin to
turn reddish brown, about 15 minutes.  Add the ginger and garlic and
cook, stirring constantly and scraping the bottom of the pan, until
the onions are reddish brown.

Stir in the ground spices and cook, stirring, for about 10 seconds, or
until the spices release their fragrance.

Dry the meat with paper towels.  Stir half of the meat into the spice
mixture.  Increase the heat to medium high and cook, stirring for a
few minutes, making sure all the meat is coated with the spices. Stir
in the remaining meat, and cook as before, scraping the bottom of the
pan.

If the mixture gets too dry, splash in a little water.

Turn the heat to medium.  Start adding the yogurt 1 tablespoon at a
time, stirring and incorporating it into the mixture before adding
the next tablespoonful.  Continue adding in this way until all the
yogurt has been used.

Turn the heat to low.  Cover the pan and simmer the meat for about 1
1/2 hours, or until the meat is very tender.  If necessary, splash in
a little water from time to time.  When the meat is tender, and salt
to taste. Stir the cream and cook until the sauce is thick.  Stir in
the saffron and rose water and heat thoroughly.

Fry the almonds in a little oil until golden brown.  Serve the lamb
piping hot garnished with the almonds.  (The whole spices in this
dish are not meant to be eaten.) Serve this dish with a pilaf or any
Indian bread.

NOTE:  Ghee is sold in Indian markets.

San Francisco Chronicle, 12/7/88.

Posted by Stephen Ceideberg; November 2 1992.

