Title: Smoked Tasso
Categories: Cajun/creol, Sausage, Homemade, Meats, Nuts/grains
Yield: 6 servings
1 tb Louisiana Gold Pepper Sauce*
1/4 c  Salt
1/4 c  Brown Sugar
1/2 c  Granulated Garlic
4 lb Pork Butt
1/4 c  Cayenne Pepper
1/2 c  Worcestershire Sauce
1/4 c  Cracked Black Pepper
From : Michelle M. Bass Smoked Tasso (2-1/2 hours, 3 pounds)

Cut  pork  butt into one half inch thick strips.   Place  on  a
baking pan and season with Worcestershire and  Louisiana  Gold
sauces. Once liquids are well blended into  meat,  add  all remaining
ingredients. Mix well into meat to ensure that  each piece is well
coated with the seasoning mixture. Cover  with clear wrap and
refrigerate overnight.

Using  a home style smoker, and using briquettes flavored  with pecan
wood and sugar cane strips if possible, smoke  tasso  at 175-200
degrees F. for 2-1/2 hours.  Once cooked, tasso may  be frozen or
used to season gumbos, vegetables, or a great pot  of white or red
beans.

~-Michelle M. Bass

COMMENT: Tasso is yet another example of the Cajun and Creole desire
for unique  flavor  in a recipe.  Tasso is a dried  smoked  product
that is seasoned  with cayenne pepper, garlic  and  salt  and heavily
smoked. The word tasso is believed to have come  from the Spanish
word "tasajo" which is dried, cured beef.

Although this delicacy is often thinly sliced and eaten  alone, it is
primarily used as a pungent seasoning  for  vegetables, gumbos and
soups.

Today in South Louisiana, tasso is becoming a popular seasoning for
new and creative dishes.  It has also gained wide  acclaim as an hors
d'oeuvre served with dipping sauces or fruit glazes.

At  Lafitte's  Landing Restaurant, we have  incorporated  tasso into
our cream sauces and compound butters to  create  a  new taste
unheard of in classical cooking.

The recipe is from "The Evolution of Cajun & Creole Cuisine" by Chef
John D. Folse, published by Wimmer  Brothers,  Inc.   If anyone wants
it you can enclose your return address  and  your check payable to
"The evolution of Cajun & Creole Cuisine"  in the amount of $19.95
per book plus $2.50 postage and  handling (La. residents add $1.20
for state sales tax). This is a brand new book, having been published
in January, 1990.

From : Bill Birner, Date: 03-22-94  05:50, Area: Home_cooking

Here is John Folse's Tasso recipe. Most folks make tasso with the
fresh ham but he does his with a pork butt. Again it is not my
favorite for the same reason. We buy ours but everything Folse does
is quality.

