Title: Smoked Turkey Gumbo
Categories: Cajun/creol
Yield: 6 servings
1/2 c  Finely diced celery
1/2 c  Finely diced green or red
-bell pepper
1 ts Chile powder (New Mexico,
-California or ancho)
1/2 ts Salt
1/4 ts Pepper
1/4 ts Dried thyme, crumbled
1/4 ts Dried oregano, crumbled
1/8 ts Cayenne (optional)
2 lb Assorted, shellfish *
2 c  Cooked long-grain rice
1    Smoked turkey, carcus
-including any skin
10 c  Water (approximately)
1    Onion, sliced
1    Stalk celery, sliced
3    Sprigs parsley
1    Sprig fresh thyme, or 1/4
-teaspoon dried thyme
1    Bay leaf
1/4 c  Vegetable oil
1/4 c  All-purpose flour
1/2 c  Finely diced onion
* small raw shrimp, peeled and deveined; cooked crab meat; small
shucked oysters

Place the carcass in a stock pot, breaking it up, if necessary, to
make it fit.  Add water to cover.  Bring to a boil, reduce to a
simmer, and skim off any foam that comes to the surface.

Add the sliced onion, celery, parsley, thyme sprig and bay leaf;
simmer, uncovered, skimming occasionally, for 2 to 4 hours.  (The
longer you cook it, the richer the stock will be.)   Do not let the
stock boil or it will turn cloudy.

Heat the oil in a large, heavy skillet (preferably cast iron), over
medium heat.  Stir in the flour and cook, stirring and scraping the
entire bottom of the pan at least every 10 seconds, until the
resulting roux cooks to a deep mahogany color, 10 to 15 minutes.

Adjust the heat to prevent scorching, which can give a bitter taste.
Turn off the heat and continue stirring a minute or two until the
mixture no longer gets darker on the bottom.

Carefully stir in the diced vegetables tables; don't let the roux
splatter it can cause nasty burns.  Stir to coat the vegetables
evenly with roux; stir in the chile powder, salt, pepper, herbs and
cayenne; set aside. (The roux may be prepared to this point while the
stock cooks.) Strain the stock, let it stand until the fat rises to
the top, and skim off the fat.

Bring 8 cups of the stock to a boil in a large pot, stir in the roux
vegetable mixture and simmer until slightly thickened, about 15
minutes.

Add the shrimp, crab and/or oysters and simmer just until done, about
5 minutes.  Taste for seasoning and correct if necessary. Serve in
soup bowls over small scoops of rice.

Serves 6 to 8.

PER SERVING:  255 calories 22 g protein, 21 g carbohydrate, 9 g fat
(1 g saturated), 92 mg cholesterol, 343 mg sodium, 1 g fiber.

Jay Harlow, San Francisco Chronicle, 11/23/92.

Posted by Stephen Ceideberg; December 2 1992.

