Title: The Flowers in the Sea
Categories: Seafood
Yield: 1 servings
1 1/3 c  Fish stock
Salt, white pepper,
-vinegar, lemon juice
Flour
280 g  Fresh salmon fillet
280 g  Fresh garoupa fillet
12    Romaine lettuce leaves
5 g  Sea urchin roe *
8    Baby artichokes
MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
Salt, freshly-milled white
-pepper, lemon juice
40 g  Butter
20 g  Lobster coral (roe) **
1 1/3 c  Dry white wine
20 g  Chopped shallots
1 c  Fish stock
1 1/3 c  Fresh cream
75 g  Sea urchin roe (optional)
MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
-oil
80 g  Watercress
4    Whole sea urchins (optional)
Vinegar/lemon juice, salt,
* (optional - lobster roe can be substituted, but it will change the
overall flavour)

** or substitute a pinch of paprika for colouring purposes, although
it will change over all flavour

This is another "not what it appears to be" dish.  The main part looks
kinda like a sea anemone.  It's garnished with whole, boiled sea
urchins++a nice touch.  You should be able to find the sea urchin roe
at a Japanese grocery.  Remember the "shallots" called for are
probably green onions.

Establishment: Hotel Riverside Plaza Tai Chung Kiu Road, Shatin, New
Territories. Western Cuisine Practical Class Gold Award - Hot Fish
Dish Chef: Chow Kwok-ting, Phil (Hotel Riverside Plaza)

To prepare: 1. Slice salmon and garoupa fillets into thin squares
about 9 to 10 cms wide and 3 to 4 mms thick. Each ball needs two
slices of each fish. (Do not attempt to make them all exactly the
same width, as the subsequent moulding process is easier if the
layers of fish diminish in size.) Season with salt and pepper.  .

2.  Blanch lettuce leaves by dipping in hot water, then refresh in
iced water.  Cut into squares of similar diminishing dimensions as
fish slices. Each ball needs four lettuce squares.

3.  Pile up alternating layers of fish and lettuce, starting with a
bottom layer of salmon, then lettuce, garoupa, lettuce, salmon,
lettuce, garoupa, and a final layer of lettuce.  Place a dot of sea
urchin or lobster roe (optional)

4.  Lay each pile on a piece of cling wrap about 20 cms square.
Moulding upwards from the bottom layer, form each pile into a ball.
Wrap it firmly, twisting a knot at top of cling wrap to hold moulded
ball in shape.

To cook: 1. To make sauce, reduce white wine with chopped shallots to
thickness of essence.  Add fish stock and reduce again.  Add fresh
cream, and remainder of sea urchin or lobster roe (optional).  Strain
sauce, add salt and pepper and a few drops of lemon juice.  Stir in
butter and lobster coral (or paprika).  Keep warm.

2.  To cook artichokes, bring a pan of water to the boil.  Add some
lemon juice drops, salt, a little plain flour and whole baby
artichokes, and simmer for 25 to 30 minutes.  Remove artichokes and
discard green outer leaves.  Carefully peel off purple-tinted inner
leaves, trim them uniformly and set aside.  Cut white artichoke
bottoms so that they have flat bases.

3.  (Optional) Boil sea urchins, adding a little vinegar or lemon
juice, oil and salt to pan.  (Please note that the very prickly
urchins must be handled with care!  Although they are edible
garnishes, special eating tongs are recommended!)

4.  Heat fish stock.  Simmer wrapped balls for about five minutes,
remove pan from heat and leave aside for 1 to 2 minutes.  During
simmering prepare the presentation plates as below.

To present: 1. Pour sauce onto plates (forming the "sea")

2.  Place two artichoke bottoms on each plate , laying two layers of
trimmed artichoke leaves around each bottom.

3.  Remove fish balls from stock and make three cross-wise inci-
sions on top of each.  (Cling wrap will fall away, and cut "blossoms"
reveal their layers and "pollen' of sea urchin roe.) Lifting it clear
of its cling wrapping, place one fish ball on each artichoke bottom.

4.  Add watercress and cooked sea urchin (or alternative garnish) to
each plate.

From "Champion Recipes of the 1986 Hong Kong Food Festival".  Hong
Kong Tourist Association, 1986.

Posted by Stephen Ceideberg; October 29 1992.

