Title: Vietnamese Spring Rolls (Cha Gio)
Categories: Vietnamese, Appetizers
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
3    Cloves garlic, finely
-chopped
3    Shallots or white part of 3
-scallions, finely chopped
1 cn (7 ounces) crabmeat,
-cartilage removed and meat
-flaked with fingers
1/2 ts Freshly ground black pepper
2 oz Cellophane noodles,
-soaked in warm water for
-20 minutes, then drained
-and cut onto 1-inch lengths
1 lb Ground pork
1 lg Onion, finely chopped
2 tb Tree ears, soaked in warm
-water for 30 minutes, then
-drained and finely chopped
MMMMM----------------PREPARATIONS FOR ASSEMBLING---------------------
4    Eggs, well beaten
2 c  Peanut oil
20    Sheets dried rice papers
-(banh trang)
MMMMM-----------------ACCOMPANIMENTS FOR SERVING----------------------
Double recipe of Nuoc Cham
Basic Vegetable Platter
Carrot Salad
Here they are!  The incomparable "Cha Gio" or Vietnamese spring rolls.

Yields 80 spring rolls.

Combine the filling ingredients in a bowl and set aside.

Cut a round rice paper sheet into quarters.  Place the cut rice paper
on a flat surface.  With a pastry brush, paint the beaten egg over
the entire surface of each of the pieces.  Before filling, wait for
the egg mixture to take effect, softening the wrappers; this takes
about 2 minutes. When you become adept at this, you can work on
several wrappers at a time.

When the wrapper looks soft and transparent, place about 1 teaspoon of
filling near the curved side, in the shape of a rectangle.  Fold the
sides over to enclose the filling and continue to roll.

After filling all the wrappers, pour the oil into a large frying pan,
put the spring rolls into the cold oil, turn the heat to moderate,
and fry for 20 to 30 minutes, until a lovely golden brown.  (This is
Bach's special method of keeping spring rolls crisp).

To serve the spring rolls, proceed as follows:

Arrange the ingredients for the vegetable platter (lettuce, mint
leaves, coriander, and the cucumber slices) according to the
directions preceding. Have ready the carrot salad and a bowl of nuoc
cham. Each person has a bowl into which he places a bit of lettuce, 2
or 3 mint leaves, some coriander, and 2 cucumber slices.  Each person
then adds 1 or 2 spring rolls to his bowl, sprinkles with the nuoc
cham, and eats the spring rolls and vegetables together, using
chopsticks or a fork.

Additional carrot salad may be added to taste.

Another very popular serving method calls for placing the vegetables
on a lettuce leaf, adding the spring roll, and rolling it into a
cylinder. Holding the cylinder with his fingers, each diner then dips
it into his own small bowl of nuoc cham.

NOTE:  We have found that frying the spring rolls in peanut oil keeps
them crisper than frying in any other oil.

From "The Classic Cuisine of Vietnam", Bach Ngo and Gloria Zimmerman,
Barron's, 1979.

Posted by Stephen Ceideberg; March 18 1991.

