Title: CHEESE & CHILE SQUARES
Categories: Appetizers
Yield: 24 Servings
2 oz Parmesan cheese, cut in
-several pieces
2    (4-ounce) cans mild or hot
-green chiles
4 oz Longhorn cheddar cheese,
-chilled
12 oz Monterey Jack cheese,
-chilled
1 ts Salt
Several dashes Tabasco sauce
10    Eggs, divided
1/3 c  All-purpose flour
1 ts Baking powder
1/2 c  Melted butter
2 c  Cottage cheese
Using the metal blade, drop the Parmesan cheese pieces through the
feed tube with the motor running and process until finely grated.
Remove and set aside. Without washing the workbowl, use the metal
blade to chop the chiles. Remove and set aside.

Use the shredding disc to process the Cheddar and Monterey Jack
cheeses separately. Remove and set aside.

Using the metal blade, process to combine the salt, tabasco sauce, 2
eggs, flour, baking powder and grated Parmesan cheese. With the
machine running, add the hot melted butter through the feed tube.
Remove the cover and add the cottage cheese and then process until
smooth. With the machine running, add 3 eggs through the feed tube.
Remove 2/3 of the mixture from the workbowl and combine with the
Cheddar cheese and chiles. Add the remaining eggs and Monterey Jack
cheese to the remaining mixture in the workbowl and process 20- 30
seconds.

Combine the 2 mixtures and spread in a buttered 17x10 inch jelly roll
pan.

Bake 15 minutes in a preheated 400^ oven, then reduce temperature to
350^ and bake about 34-40 minutes more until the cheese is set and
firm. Cut into squares and serve warm with your favorite salsa. Makes
24 thin slices.

Note: If you have a large capacity machine, all the eggs may be added
at once and both cheeses may be added and combined in the processor
bowl.

This typical appetizer is usually baked in a rectangular pan and cut
in squares. The presentation is further enhanced if accompanied by a
tomato salsa of your choice. It should be served warm, but can be
baked ahead and reheated.

I have a cookbook that brings together several of my all time
favorites: Anne Lindsay Greer--one of my favorite chefs, is the
author Food processor adapted--a real joy in food preparation SW
Cuisine--my soul food!

It's called Cuisine of the American Southwest, by Anne Lindsay Greer.
Here's a recipe I've made often, and it's always a hit.

Food & Wine RT [*] Category 3, Topic 8 Message 7 Sat Dec 12, 1992
at 11:16 EST
PETCHY [Court.Jester]

MM by QBTOMM and Sylvia Steiger, GEnie THE.STEIGERS, CI$ 71511,2253,
GT Cookbook echo moderator, net/node 004/005

