Title: CHERNOBYL-CHILI
Categories: Entrees, Microwave
Yield: 8 Servings
4 lb Beef, ground
3 lg Onions, diced
1/2 c  Green pepper, diced
6    Garlic cloves, pressed
2 lb Tomatoes, crushed
-(use standard canned
-tomatoes)
1 lb Tomatoes, whole,
-cut up (canned or fresh)
6 oz Tomato paste
2 1/2 lb Kidney beans (light red),
-not drained
-(3 standard-size cans)
2 tb Brown sugar
3 tb Sugar, white
4 tb Chili powder
2 ts MSG (monosodium glutamate)
2 ts Red pepper (cayenne),
-crushed
1 ts Black pepper, ground
1 ts Salt
3 tb Bacon grease
Water or beer,
-as needed
Garlic powder,
-as needed
In a large microwave container, brown meat, onions, green pepper and
garlic for 15 minutes on full power. Drain off and reserve a cup or
two of liquid. Break up any remaining large chunks of meat.

Add remaining ingredients except tomato paste and cook on full power
for 30 minutes covered.  Stir and taste. Cook for 1 hour at 70
percent power, uncovered.  Stir and taste at half hour intervals. Add
water as necessary.

Add tomato paste and reserved meat liquid.  Cook 30 minutes at 60
percent power, uncovered.  Stir and taste. The chili is done and can
be served directly or decanted into a crock pot to simmer.

Serve with shredded cheddar cheese, tabasco sauce, diced onions, hot
chili oil, red pepper flakes and hot dogs with rolls. Your guests can
microwave their own hot dogs and top them with chili and cheese!!!

NOTES:

*  High-energy microwave chili -- Microwaves and chili make a superb
match, especially for lazy chili lovers like me. This version is for
a mixed crowd. True chili fiends should see the notes at the end.
Yield: Serves 8-12.

*  For true CHERNOBYL-Class 20 megaton SS-19 chili, double the pepper,
chili powder and MSG and add 30 minutes to the cooking. Serve with
Pepski.

*  People who are worried about MSG, bacon grease or radiation should
not be eating chili in the first place.

*  Yes, it will make an incredible mess in your microwave oven.

*  The most likely things you will need to add at the testing points
are salt, sugar, and maybe garlic powder.

*  The chili will thicken up in the microwave so be sure to add enough
water to keep it soupy until the last phase.

: Difficulty:  easy.
: Time:  10 minutes preparation, 2-3 hours in microwave.
: Precision:  approximate measurement OK.

: Jim Houser  (JABBA)
: Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland, USA
: ins_ajbh@jhunix.bitnet

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

