Title: CHESTNUTS IN COINTREAU SYRUP
Categories: Desserts, Fruits, Grains, Sauces
Yield: 1 Batch
1 1/2 lb Chestnuts (about 50 nuts)
2 lg Fresh tangerines; peel of
-- pith removed
-- in large chunks
3/4 c  Sugar
1 1/4 c  ;Water
1/3 c  Light corn syrup
1 tb Orange zest; finely slivered
1/3 c  Cointreau or
Other orange-flavor liqueur*
*Grand Marnier, Triple Sec, etc.

Chop each chestnut in half with a cleaver or heavy knife (lay them
flat side down on a cutting board for easy chopping.) Place the nuts
in a saucepan, add water to cover by 1", and bring them to a boil
over high heat.  Boil the nuts, uncovered, 3 minutes, then drain
them. Pry or pop the halves out of the shells. The skin will usually
remain in the shell; scrape off any bits that adhere to the nuts.
Halve each piece.

Return nuts to the rinsed-out saucepan; add the skin of one tangerine
and enough cold water to cover the nuts. Bring the liquid to a boil,
lower heat, and simmer the nuts gently, partly covered, until they are
translucent, about 1 hour.  If necessary, add more boiling water to
keep the nuts covered.  Using a slotted spoon, lift the nuts from the
cooking liquid, leaving any scum behind. Discard the liquid and peel.

Combine the sugar, water and remaining tangerine peel in the
rinsed-out saucepan; bring the mixture to a boil. Simmer the syrup 10
minutes, then add the chestnuts. Bring the syrup to a boil again,
then lower heat and simmer the chestnuts, covered, for 15 minutes.
Remove the pieces of zest; return the sauce to boiling and simmer it
for 3 minutes.

Ladle the nuts and syrup into a sterilized storage jar and add orange
liqueur. Cover the jar, shaking it to mix everything, then cool and
refrigerate.  The flavor improves for several weeks. Stores for up to
a year in the refrigerator.

The author suggests spooning this sauce into stemmed glasses and
topping it with lightly whipped cream, or serving it as an ice cream
topping.

Yield: About 2 1/2 cups.

From _Fancy Pantry_ by Helen Witty.  New York: Workman Publishing
Company, Inc., 1986.  Pg. 224.  ISBN 0-89480-037-X. Typed for you by
Cathy Harned.

