Title: FRESH & SALT COD CAKES/JALAPENO TARTAR/3
Categories: Fish, Seafood
Yield: 1 Servings
1/2 lb Salt Cod, see note
1/2 lb Boneless Cod fillets
1 1/2 c  Milk
1 c  Water
Bouquet Garni
1    Bay Leaf
2    Sprigs Thyme   Bouquet Garni
2    Sprigs Parsley Bouquet Garni
2 tb Butter
1/2    Rib Celery, chopped
1/2    Onion, chopped
2    Green Onions, chopped
c  Chives, chopped
1/4 c  Parsley, chopped
1/2 ts Cayenne pepper
1 ts Tabasco sauce
1 tb Dry Mustard-Sunbird B&B
1 tb Worcestershire Sauce, White
1/2 c  Mayonnaise
2    Eggs
1/2    Lemon, juice of only
1 c  Seasoned bread crumbs
1 c  Additional bread crumbs
-to dip patties
Salt and Pepper to taste
2    Egg Yolks
1/2 c  Milk
3/4 c  Corn Meal not cornmeal mix
3/4 c  All Purpose Flour
3 tb Butter
3 tb Peanut Oil
Notes: on Cod, soak in water overnite, change water several times,
rinse and drain. To determine if cod has soaked enough; taste soaking
water. The cod is soaked if the mix is *slightly* salty and the fish
has plumped up to nearly double it's original size. Soaking cod too
long results in fish fiber with no taste.
In a large saucepan, Mix together the soaked and drained salt cod,
water and milk. put the, bay leaf, thyme and parsley. in a 4 inch
square piece of cheesecloth and tie it together with string. Place
the spice bag in the cod, water, milk, mix. Bring to a boil, reduce
the heat to low and cook for 15 minutes. Add the fresh cod and cook
for 5 minutes more. Drain and remove the fish to a large bowl to
cool, discarding the flavoring ingredients.
Flake fish with a fork and set aside. In a large skillet, melt the
butter until sizzling, add the celery and chopped onion and cook
until the onion is translucent, about 5 minutes. Add the cooked
vegetables to the flaked fish, add the egg and mix to coat, then add
the green onions, chives, parsley, cayenne pepper, tabasco sauce,
dried mustard, worcestershire sauce, mayonnaise, lemon juice, bread
crumbs, and salt and pepper to taste, Form the mixture into 6 to 8,
3" to 4" patties, 1/2 cup of mix makes 3" patties. Place on a baking
sheet and cover and refrigerate for 1 hour.
If the mixture is too wet, add more breadcrumbs as needed. When
ready to cook, whisk together the egg yolk and milk in a small bowl.
In a small shallow pie plate combine the cornmeal and flour. Dip a
codcake into the flour mixture, then in the egg and milk mixture and
finally dredge them in the remaining breadcrumbs. Repeat with the
remainder of the codcakes. In a large skillet melt together the
butter and the oil. Fry half of the codcakes in the skillet about 3-4
minutes per side. MSN, the results should be fairly brown. Drain the
fishcakes on paper towels. Repeat with the remainder of the cakes.
Serve warm with the Jalapeno Tartar Sauce and fresh lemon or lime
wedges. MSN= 2/3 cup of the mix = 4" patties.

~--

