Title: FRIED VEGETARIAN SPRING ROLLS (CHA GIO CHAY)
Categories: Vietnamese, Appetizers, Vegetarian, Ceideburg 2
Yield: 1 Servings
MMMMM-----------------------ACCOMPANIMENTS----------------------------
Vegetable Platter
8 oz Thin rice vermicelli (bun)
-OR:
2 bn Japanese alimentary paste
-noodles (somen).
Peanut sauce or Nuoc Cham
MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
1 oz Cellophane (bean thread)
-noodles
1 tb Dried tree ear mushrooms
6    Dried Chinese mushrooms
1 lg Carrot, finely shredded
1 lg Leek, white part only,
-chopped
6    Water chestnuts, or
1/2 sm Jicama, peeled and chopped
1 lb Firm bean curd (tofu),
-crumbled
1 c  Fresh bean sprouts, coarsely
-chopped
6    Garlic cloves, minced
3 tb Nuoc mam (Vietnamese fish
-sauce)
2    Eggs
1/2 ts Freshly ground black pepper
MMMMM--------------------ASSEMBLY AND FRYING-------------------------
1/2 c  Sugar
40 sm Rounds of rice papers (banh
-trang), 6 1/2 inches in
-diameter
Peanut oil for frying
The book notes that true Buddhist vegetarians would not use garlic or
fish sauce and would limit the dips to plain soy or plum sauce.
Unless you are in this category, Peanut Sauce (Nuoc Leo) and Nuoc
Cham are great dips as well.

Prepare the Vegetable Platter, noodles and dipping sauce. Set aside.

Soak the noodles in warm water and the mushrooms in hot water for 30
minutes; drain.  Cut the noodles into 1/2-inch lengths. Remove and
discard the stems from the mushrooms; squeeze to extract most of the
soaking liquid.  Mince all of the mushrooms.

Combine all of the filling ingredients in a large mixing bowl; blend
well with your hands.  Set aside.

Assemble the rolls:  Fill a large bowl with 4 cups of warm water and
dissolve the sugar in it.

Rice paper is quite fragile.  Work with only 4 sheets at a time,
keeping the remaining sheets covered with a barely damp cloth to
prevent curling.

Immerse the rice paper, one sheet at a time, into the sweetened warm
water. Quickly withdraw it and lay it flat on a dry towel. Do this
with 4 sheets without letting them touch each other. The rice paper
will become pliable within seconds.

Fold over the bottom third of each round.  Put 1 generous teaspoon of
filling in the center of the folded-over portion. Press it into a
compact rectangle.  Fold one side of the paper over the mixture, then
the other side.  Roll from the bottom to the top to completely
enclose the filling. Continue until all of the mixture is used. (The
rolls can be prepared 1 day in advance.  Wrap and refrigerate.)

Fry the rolls:  If possible use 2 skillets.  Pour 1 to 1 1/2 inches
of oil into each skillet and heat to 325F. Working in batches, add
some of the rolls without letting them touch, or they will stick
together. Fry for 10 to 12 minutes, turning often, until golden and
crisp. Remove the rolls from the oil with tongs and drain on paper
towels. Keep warm in a low oven until all of th rolls are cooked.

To serve, each diner wraps a roll in a lettuce leaf along with some
noodles and selected items from the Vegetable Platter and dips the
package in the dipping sauce.

NOTE:  The fried rolls can be frozen, then thawed and reheated in a
350F oven just to crisp and heat through.

Yield: 40 rolls.

From "The Foods of Vietnam" by Nicole Rauthier. Stewart, Tabori &
Chang. 1989.

Posted by Stephen Ceideberg; April 14 1991.

