Title: FRIED CHICKEN BREASTS RUBBED IN ANCHO PEPPERS
Categories: Poultry
Yield: 1 Servings
6    Ancho (or mulato) peppers; r
6    Cl Garlic
1/4 ts Oregano
1/2 ts Sugar
1/2 ts Salt
1/2 c  Fine corn meal
1/2 c  Coarse corn meal
1/2 c  Flour
1 tb Black pepper
1 tb Chile powder
2    Boneless skinless chicken br
White flour; (for dusting)
-------the rub-------
6    Ancho (or mulato) peppers; r
6    Cl Garlic; minced
1/4 ts Oregano flakes
1/2 ts Sugar
1/2 ts Salt
-------seasoned coating-----
1/2 c  Fine corn meal
1/2 c  Coarse corn meal
1/2 c  Flour
1 tb Black pepper
1 tb Chile powder
Recipe by: Jim Maslanka <jmasl@FNBC.COM> Chicken: 2 whole chicken
breasts, boned, skinned, and split; rinse and pat dry . Separate the
tenderloins from each breast; you'll now have 8 pieces of chicken .
Pound chicken flat to about 50% increase in size . Score meat with
sharp knife in a 1/2 inch criss cross pattern

Rub: . Toast dried peppers on a hot iron skillet; remove stem; slit
and remove seeds . Place peppers in a pan; cover with water; bring to
a boil; remove from heat; let stand for 1 hour. . Place all rub
ingredients in a blender and puree until smooth; run mixture through
a food mill (fine filter) if possible. Should be a thick paste.

Coating: . Mix ingredients thoroughly.

Preparation: . Lightly dust chicken meat on all sides with flour,
allow to dry for 5 minutes. . With a butter knife, spread the ancho
paste evenly on one side of the chicken pieces; rub into the scored
pattern (should be enough paste to "hide" the chicken meat). .
Sprinkle liberally with seasoned coating; pat it into the paste;
allow to dry for 5 min. . Turn chicken pieces over and repeat the
paste and coating process on other side of meat.

. Pour 1 cup of olive oil into a hot iron skillet; add 1/4 stick of
butter; reduce heat to medium. . Don't crowd the chicken in the pan
(cook breasts first, followed by tenderloins); for each batch: cook,
covered, for 5 minutes; turn the meat; cook for another 5 minutes. .
Remove meat, place on a warming rack in a 300 degree oven. . Continue
cooking remaining meat.

I served this with a yellow corn and black bean salsa, cooked for
about 5 minutes with onions, 1 tsp balsamic vinegar, and 1/4 cup
chicken broth.

