Title: FRIED GREEN TOMATOES & PASTA
Categories: Pasta
Yield: 1 Servings
Green tomatoes (about 1
-md per serving
Bread crumbs
REAL parmesan or romano
Cheese -- grated. (The
Adventu
Real yummy very-virgin olive
Oil
Garlic cloves
Angel hair pasta (please,
Please make your
Cream, eggs, milk -- or
Whatever your die
1.  Slice the tomatoes about  1/2 cm thick. (Vary this according to
your success at frying the suckers!) Dip in cream, then in a mixture
of bread crumbs and cheese -- about 50% each.

2.  Heat about 50-65 ml olive oil in a large skillet or omelet pan
until hot, but not smoking. NOTE TO THE NOVICE: Olive oil smokes
easily! Saute' garlic until LIGHTLY browned. Ifyou overdo the garlic,
or cook at too high a temperature, it will taste YUCKY! Remove the
(oh, yeah....peeled and pureed) garlic from the oil and discard. Fry
the tomato slices until crusty and lightly browned on each side. The
tomatoes should be softened, but not mushy. You will probably find it
necessary to make more batches of garlic oil from time to time, as
you fry up the slices of green tomato. This is good.

3.  You will finally toss all the (cooked) pasta with the remaining
garlic-ky oil (there should be plenty of this!). If there is some
cream left over, a LITTLE of this should go in too. Top with the
fried tomato slices and a generous helping of shredded cheese and a
little bit of bread crumbs.

Author's Notes: This recipe was made for me and my family by my uncle,
Larry Ross, former advertising directory of Food & Wine and author of
Nanny's Texas Table cookbook. The point is, this man is brilliant,
and I'm proud to claim him as an uncle. Foodwise, that is. I could
eat at his place for years. It's a little loose, and I've had more
and less success with it at varying times, but this is the general
idea. Most recently, I made it for my long-time girlfriend with a
salmon mousse made with cream cheese topped with capers and lemon,
and we ended up eating bites of the mousse with the green
tomato/pasta. (Actually, we ended up doing something quite different,
but culiNARily speaking....)

I also like to add some grated black pepper -- you should really
invest in some very, very fresh peppercorns from a good source, if
possible. The difference is major -- trust me! Also, I mix in a few
drops of Tabasco for flavor ONLY when tossing with the garlic oil --
be sparing, and toss WELL. I am SOLELY responsible for any
aphrodisiac effects this recipe may incite! Please send checks or
money orders only! Be careful!

Difficulty    : moderate. Precision
: measure ingredients.

: corradini56@wilma.wharton.upenn.edu Rec.Food.Recipes
Recipe By
Digest

