Title: CHICKEN A LA KING (USDA)
Categories: Freezes wel, Usda
Yield: 24 Servings
20 oz Frozen green peas
2 tb Instant minced onion
1 c  Green peppers -- chopped
1 1/3 c  Boiling water
2 qt Chicken broth
1 2/3 c  Unsifted flour
1 qt Milk
2 1/2 lb Cooked chicken -- diced
(about 8 cups)
16 oz Canned mushrooms pieces --
Drained (3 cups)
1/4 c  Pimientos -- chopped
3 tb Salt
1/8 ts Pepper
2 ts Poultry seasoning
Line four 8x8-inch baking pans with heat-resistant freezer wrap. Allow
enough extra wrap to fold over top. Use one pan for each six servings
or one-fourth of the recipe. Baking pans are not needed for food to
be served without freezing.

Add peas, onion, and green pepper to boiling water. Cover. Cook
slowly for 5 minutes. Drain; save cooking liquid. Combine vegetable
cooking liquid with broth. Heat to boiling.

Mix flour with milk.  Stir slowly into broth mixture. Cook until
thickened, stirring constantly. Stir in chicken, vegetables, mushroom
pieces, pimientos, and seasonings.

TO SERVE WITHOUT FREEZING:  Heat to serving temperature. Serve over
cooked rice or hot biscuits.

TO FREEZE:  Pour one-fourth of the mixture into one of the prepared
baking pans.  Cool for 30 minutes at room temperature. Complete
wrapping by pulling paper up over top of food. Put edges of wrap
together and fold several times so paper lies directly on top of
food. Fold ends of freezer wrap over the top and seal with freezer
tape. Label with name of food, date of freezing, and last date the
food should be used for best eating quality (about 6 months).  Freeze
immediately for 10 to 12 hours before removing packages from the pans.

TO HEAT FROZEN FOOD:  Preheat oven to 350B0 F. (moderate). Remove
freezer wrap.  Place food in baking pan. Heat 1 1/2 hours or until
bubbly at edges. Stir occasionally during heating. After heating,
stir gently until sauce is smooth.  Serve over cooked rice or hot
biscuits.

~ - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

Serving Ideas : Rice or Hot Biscuits

NOTES : This recipe is for 24 servings (about 1 cup each). Directions
are given for dividing the prepared food into four parts of six
servings each. One part may be completely cooked and served at the
time of preparation. The remaining parts may be frozen.

"Freezing Combination Main Dishes"  by Meredith Robinson and Lois
Fulton (Consumer and Food Economics Institute, Agriculture Research
Service) USDA Home and Garden Bulletin No. 40, 1973 (Stock Number
0100-02712). MasterCook electronic format by Rosie Winters. Nutr.
Assoc. : 0 4289 0 0 0 0 0 0 2461 0 0 0 0

: Freezing Combination Main Dishes (Robinson & Fulton,
Recipe By
1973)

