Title: CHICKEN SPAGHETTI CASSEROLE
Categories: Poultry
Yield: 16 Servings
SOUP GREENS-
1    Yellow onion -- leave yellow
Skin on
1    Carrot
1    Parsnips
Few sprigs
4    To 5 pound
CASSEROLE-
2 md Yellow onions -- chopped
2    Cloves garlic -- peeled,
Pressed
1    Green pepper -- seeded and
Chopped
2 c  Celery -- chopped
1/2 lb Mushrooms -- chopped
2 tb Vegetable oil
2 tb Butter
2 c  Milk
2 tb Flour
1/2 lb Mushrooms
1 lg Roasted red peppers --
Chopped OR
1 sm Can
2 lb Vermicelli
1 lb Grated Cheddar cheese
6    Hard-boiled eggs -- chopped
Salt and pepper -- to taste
Parsley
Stewing chicken
Chopped pimientos
Simmer chicken in water until tender with soup greens. A large, old
hen may take up to two hours. Can do this in Crockpot, cooking all
day. Remove chicken from stock, discard vegetables and reserve stock.
Stir meat from bones, discard skin and bones, cut meat in small
pieces. Casserole: In large skillet, saute the first five casserole
ingredients in the oil until just tender. Remove from pan to a large
mixing bowl and hold in reserve. Add butter to the pan and make a
roux with the flour. Cook over Low heat to cook the flour, but do not
let it brown. Add millk and cook, stirring constantly until the sauce
thickens. Add remaining 1/2 pound mushrooms to cool the sauce. Then
put in food processor with steel blade. Process by pusling until
mushrooms are chopped very fine. Add to vegetables in large bowl. Add
chicken, pimeintos or red peppers and 1 cup of shredded cheese. Mix
well. Meanwhile break the vermicelli into small pies, 3-4" long and
cook in some of chicken stock until just al dente. Drain. Combine
with the prepared sauce. Gently add hard cooked eggs. Place in two
greased flat oval casserole dishes and bake at 300 f. for about 45
minutes. If casserole appears to be too dry, add some of reserved
chicken stock. About 10 minutes before doen, sprinkle top of
casserole with remaining cheese. You can freeze the second casserole.

: Rosilyn/AOL
Recipe By

Date: 05/28
From:

