Title: CHICKEN POT PIE LASAGNE
Categories: Poultry, Main dish, Pasta
Yield: 10 Servings
12    Pieces Lasagne, uncooked
1 lb Boneless chicken breasts
-(without skin), diced
3 c  Sliced fresh mushrooms
1 c  Thinly sliced carrots
1/2 c  Sliced spring onions
1 c  Frozen green peas
-- thawed and well drained
1 ts Ground thyme
1/2 ts Salt
1/2 c  All-purpose flour
3 1/2 c  Skim milk
1/2 c  Dry sherry
1/4 ts Ground red pepper (cayenne)
15 oz Low-fat ricotta cheese
1 1/2 c  Grated mozzarella cheese
-(part-skim), divided
1/2 c  Grated Swiss cheese
-(reduced fat)
Prepare pasta according to package directions. Spray a Dutch oven or
large skillet with cooking spray; place over medium-high heat until
hot. Add chicken and saute 4 minutes or until cooked through. Drain
well and set aside. Recoat Dutch oven with cooking spray and place
over medium-high heat until hot. Add mushrooms, carrots and onions;
saute 6 minutes. Set aside.

Place flour in a medium saucepan. Gradually add milk, stirring with a
wire whisk until blended; stir in sherry. Bring to a boil over medium
heat and cook for 5 minutes or until thickened, stirring constantly.
Stir in salt and red pepper. Reserve one cup of sauce and set aside.

In a bowl, combine ricotta cheese, 1 cup mozzarella cheese and Swiss
cheese.

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Spread 1 cup of the sauce over the
bottom of a 13 x 9 x 2-inch pan. Arrange 4 pieces of the lasagne (3
lengthwise, 1 widthwise) over the sauce. Top with half of ricotta
cheeese mixture, half of chicken mixture and half of remaining sauce
mixture. Repeat layers, ending with 4 pieces of lasagne. Spread
reserved 1 cup of sauce over the last complete layer of lasagne,
being sure to cover the lasagne completely.

Cover lasagne with foil and bake 1 hour. Uncover lasagne, sprinkle
remaining 1/2 cup mozzarella cheese on top and bake an additional 5
minutes uncovered. Re-cover and let stand 15 minutes before serving.

Each serving provides: 342 Calories; 29.5 g Protein; 35.5 g
Carbohydrates; 7.8 g Fat; 53 g Cholesterol; 354 mg Sodium. Calories
from Fat: 21%

Copyright National Pasta Association (http://www.ilovepasta.org)
(Reprinted with permission)

