Title: CHICKEN CANNELLONI WITH CHEESE SAUCE
Categories: Pasta
Yield: 1 Recipe
1 3/4 c  Chicken, cooked & diced
1 lb Lasagna Noodles
2 tb Butter or Margarine
2 tb Olive oil
2    Cloves Garlic, finely
-chopped
1 sm Onion, finely chopped
4 oz Mushrooms, chopped
1 lg Egg, beaten
2 tb Heavy Cream or Half-and-Half
1/4 ts Thyme
1/2 ts Salt
1 bn Spinach, cooked until
MMMMM------------------------CHEESE SAUCE-----------------------------
3 tb Butter or Margarine
4 tb Flour
1 1/2 c  Chicken Broth
3 c  Half-and-Half
Salt and Pepper to taste
1 c  Parmesan Cheese
1/2 c  (to 1 cup) Mozzarella
-Cheese, grated (opt)
Spaghetti Sauce (homemade
-or store bought) (opt)
THE NIGHT BEFORE (or early in the day): Cook lasagna noodles in 6 qts.
boiling water for 5-7 minutes or until tender; drain, wipe noodles
dry with a clean/dry cloth, lay flat on waxed paper.

While noodles are cooking, melt butter and olive oil in a large
skillet. Saute onion, garlic and mushrooms until they're tender; add
remove from heat; set aside.

Place cooked chicken in food processor and pulse until chicken
resembles a tuna salad mixture. Combine chicken with the onions,
garlic, mushrooms and the fat in which they were sauteed; add egg,
cream and seasonings. Add spinach (cooked) and mix well.

Cut each lasagna noodle into 2 or 3 pieces--each piece should be 3 to
4 inches long; place a tablespoonful of the chicken filling on each
piece and roll into a tubular shape. If you don't want to make
canneloni, just layer the ingredients like you would for lasagna.

Arrange rolls next to each other, one layer deep, in a buttered baking
dish; set aside while you prepare the cheese sauce.

CHEESE SAUCE: Melt butter then add the flour and cook for a few
minutes to get rid of the floury taste. Gradually add the chicken
broth, whisking constantly to prevent lumps; add cream, salt and
pepper. Cook, stirring constantly, until thickened and smooth; remove
from heat. Stir in 3/4 cup grated Parmesan cheese and mix well.

I like to use, both, red and white sauce on this one. I spoon over a
strip of the white sauce, next to it I spoon on some red; keep doing
that across the dish until the sauce covers the noodles. The
red/white pattern makes it look pretty and gives the dish a little
more flavor. It also cuts back on some of the fat.

Spoon sauce over cannelloni in baking dish; sprinkle with remaining
Parmesan cheese and Mozzarella cheese, if used; refrigerate until
you're ready to bake it.

BEFORE SERVING: Preheat broiler; place cannelloni 4-5 inches from
heat and broil for 10 minutes or until sauce bubbles and top browns.
If you'll be making lasagna, bake in a 350-degree oven for 25-30
minutes, or until it's bubbly and the top is browned a bit.

