Title: CHICKEN BIRIANI
Categories: Diabetic, Poultry, Main dish, Rice, Curry
Yield: 4 Nice folks
2 lg Onion; peeled
2 cl Garlic; crushed
2    Inch piece gingerroot; fresh
-peeled
2 tb Curry powder;
1 ts Turmeric;
4 tb Natural yogurt;
Salt to taste
Fresh gournd pepper to taste
6    Green Cardamoms;
1    Cinnamon stick;
2 c  Brown basmati rice; L-grain
-If basmati is not available
-=OR=-
2 c  Ordinary brown rice;
3 1/4 c  Water
Lemon Wedges; to serve
Fresh coriander; to serve
Thinly slice 1 onion and set it aside.  Cut the other onion into
chunks, then puree it to a paste with the garlic, gingerroot, curry
powder, turmeric and yogurt. If you do not have a blender or food
processor, then grate the onion and gingerroot and mix with the other
ingrededients. Add plenty of seasoning, then spoon this mixture over
the chicken thighs, spreading it evenly over them and turning to coat
all sides. Cover and chill for 1-24 hours, the longer the better.
Heat the oil in a large heavy-bottomed saucepan or flameproof
casserole. Add the sliced onion, bay leaves and cardamoms, then cook,
stirring often, until browned-about 20 minutes.  Use a slotted spoon
to remove half the onion from the pan and reserve for garnih. Push
the rest of the onion to one side. Add chicken portions, reserving
the juices from marinating and brown them all over. Add the rice to
the pan, sprinkling it down between the chicken. Tuck the cinnamon
stick in between the chicken, then scrape all the marinating juice
into the pan.  Pour in 3 3/4 cups of water. Bring to a boil, then
reduce the heat and cover pan tightly. Leave to gently for 30-35
minutes, until the rice has absorbed the water and the chicken is
tender. The biriani should be moist. Transfer the birmani to a
serving dish, or serve it from the cooking pan, sprinkling the
reserved onion over and addin flavor. Add lemon wedges for
garnish-their juice should be squeezed over before the birani is
eaten.

No Food Exchanges were listed.

Source: The Diabetic Cookbook by Bridget Jones

Brought to you and yours via Nancy O'Brion and her Meal-Master

