Title: CHICKEN BREASTS STUFFED WITH SMOKED GOUDA
Categories: Poultry, Jaw
Yield: 4 Servings
8    Green Anaheim chiles
8    Chicken breast halves,
Boned, skin ON, pounded thin
Salt and fresh ground black
Pepper to taste
1 ts Ground cumin
1/4 c  Finely chopped cilantro
6 oz Smoked Gouda, shredded
1/4 c  Salted toasted pumpkin seeds
1/4 c  Olive oil
MMMMM---------------------------SALSA--------------------------------
5    Vine-ripened tomatoes (about
1/2 lb seeded and chopped)
1/2 c  Chopped green onions
1/2 c  Chopped cilantro sprigs
2    Cloves garlic, minced
1 tb Very finely minced ginger
3 tb White wine vinegar
2 tb Dark sesame oil
1 tb Safflower oil
1 1/2 ts Sugar
1 ts Asian chile sauce
1/2 ts Salt
Advance Preparation: Place the whole chiles over a gas burner turned
to high and roast until blackened on all sides. Place them in a
plastic or paper bag and close the bag. After 5 minutes, remove the
chiles and rub off the black skin. Discard the stem, and cut the
chiles lenghtwise so that each one opens into a flat piece. Discard
the chiles seeds and ribs. Rinse the chicken breasts with cold water
and pat dry. Lay the breasts, skin side down, on a work surface and
sprinkle a single chile on each breast, then add a thin layer of
shredded Gouda. Tightly roll each breast. Loop 1 or 2 pieces of
string around each breast and tie it snugly so that the cylinder is
held closed. In separate containers, set aside the pumpkin seeds and
olive oil. Combine all the ingredients for the salsa, stir well and
set aside at room temp. Advance prep. can be done up to 8 hours ahead.

Final cooking steps: Preheat the oven to 450 degrees. Line a shallow
roasting pan with foil, then top the pan with a wire rack that has
been sprayed with cooking spray. Place the chicken, skin side up on
the rack. Turn the oven setting to broil, place the chicken about 4
inches below the heating element and broil chicken until the skin is
golden. about 4 to 6 minutes. Immediately turn the oven to 400
degrees. Brush the chicken with olive oil and roast if for about 15
minutes longer. Chicken is done when juices run clear when pierced
with a fork. Spoon warmed salsa across 4 dinner plates. Place the
chicken in the center of salsa, sprinkle with the pumpkin seeds and
serve at once.

