Title: CHICKEN ACAPULCO WITH CREAMY SHRIMP SAUCE
Categories: Mexican, Seafood, Poultry, Sauces
Yield: 4 Servings
4 lg Poblano peppers
1/4 c  Onion, chopped
1/2 lb Medium shrimp, lightly
Cooked, peeled, and chopped
1/4 c  Cilantro, chopped
1/4 lb Monterey jack cheese,
Shredded
2    8 ozs chicken breasts,
Halved, deboned, and
Pounded flat
2 ts White pepper
Salt, to taste
12    6-in long strings
Oil, for frying
MMMMM--------------------CREAMY SHRIMP SAUCE-------------------------
3    Shallots, diced
1 c  White wine
1/2 c  Fish stock or chicken broth
1 lb Small shrimp
2 c  Whipping cream
3/4 lb Butter
ROAST PEPPERS:  Place poblano peppers under the broiler and char on
all sides. Put in plastic bag and freeze 10 minutes. Remove from
freezer, rub off peel, then slit to remove seeds under running water.

Preheat oven to 400 degrees F.  In a medium saute pan, saute onion,
shrimp, and cilantro until the shrimp are almost cooked, about 5
minutes. Place in mixture in a bowl, add the cheese and set aside.

TO ASSEMBLE:  Lay the four prepared chicken breasts flat, skin-side
down. Season with salt and white pepper. Layer each breast with one
pepper and 2 to 3 tablespoons shrimp/cheese mixture over pepper. Roll
each breast tightly to form a cylinder. Tie each cylinder in 3
places, both ends and in the middle.

In a skillet, heat about 1/4-inch of oil.  Lightly brown chicken
breasts, one at a time, on all sides. Remove from heat, transfer to a
oven-proof dish and bake for 10 minutes until golden brown.

Remove from oven.  Cut strings and slice chicken into 1-inch roulades
(rounds).  Drizzle a few tablespoons of Creamy Shrimp Sauce onto a
plate and arrange the roulades on top of the sauce. Serve warm. Makes
4 servings.

TO MAKE CREAMY SHRIMP SAUCE:  In a saucepan over medium-high heat,
combine shallots and wine.  Cook until reduced by three-fourths. Add
stock/broth and shrimp and cook until reduced by half. Add the cream
and reduce again by half. Whisk in the butter by tablespoons. Cook
until butter melts and sauce is well-blended. Remove from heat.
Recipe: Cafe Noche, 2409 Montrose Blvd, Houston, Texas --
1-(713)-529-2409

