Title: CHICKEN FLOWERPOT PIE
Categories: Poultry, Pies
Yield: 1 Servings
-PASTRY:
2 c  All-purpose flour
1 ts Salt
1 1/2 c  Butter or margarine,
-chilled and cut into thin
-slices
3 tb Shortening
1/3 c  Ice water
-FILLING:
1    Broiler/fryer chicken (3 to
4    Pounds), cut up
2 qt Water
1    Bay leaf
1    Garlic clove, minced
1 1/2 c  Fresh or frozen cut green
-beans
1 1/2 c  Thinly sliced carrots
1 c  Diced peeled potatoes
1/2 ts Dried basil
1/2 c  Sliced fresh mushrooms
1 pk (10 ounces) frozen peas
1 cn (16 ounces) whole tomatoes,
-drained and chopped
4 tb Butter or margarine
1/4 c  All-purpose flour
1 c  Heavy cream
2    Egg yolks Salt and pepper
-to taste
-GLAZE:
1    Egg yolk 1 tablespoon cold
-water
-OTHER MATERIALS NEEDED:
6    New clay flowerpots (4-inch
-diameter)
-Vegetable oil
-Aluminum foil
-Decorative seed packets
-glued onto wooden craft
-sticks
In a large mixing bowl, combine flour and salt. Using a pastry
blender, cut in butter and shortening until mixture resembles coarse
meal (work quickly so the butter does not soften). Sprinkle with ice
water; rapidly blend together with a fork. Gather the dough into a
ball, then flatten into a circle. Wrap in foil; chill at least 3
hours or overnight. For filling, place chicken, water, bay leaf and
garlic in a Dutch oven. Bring to a boil; reduce heat and cook for
30-40 minutes or until chicken is tender. Rem ove and debone chicken;
set aside. Skim fat from the stock. Add beans, carrots, potatoes and
basil; cover and simmer 12-15 minutes or until the vegetables are
tender. Add mushrooms, peas and tomatoes; cover and simmer for 3-5
minutes. Drain vegetables and reserve stock; set aside. Melt butter
in another large kettle. Whisk in flour and cook until bubbly; stir
in 1-1/2 cups of reserved stock. Discard remaining stock. In a small
bowl, stir together cream and egg yolks. Whisk into the sauce; remove
from heat.

Season with salt and pepper. Gently fold in reserved chicken and
vegetables. To assemble flowerpots, brush the outside of pots with
vegetable oil. Line each pot with a 15-in. x 12-in. piece of foil;
pressing the foil gently down into the pot and being careful not to
tear it. Fill each pot with about 1-1/2 cups of filling; leaving
about 1/2-in. headroom; set aside. Roll pastry to 1/8-in. thickness;
cut six 6-in. circles. Place one circle on each flowerpot, turndown
the edges and flute the ends. Cut three sma ll steam holes in the
center of each pastry. In a small bowl, lightly beat glaze
ingredients; brush on top of each crust. Place flowerpots on a baking
sheet. Bake at 425! for 30-35 minutes or until the crust is browned
and the filling's hot and bubbly. Place one stick with a seed packet
in each pot before serving.

Yield: 6 servings.

From the files of Al Rice, North Pole Alaska.    Feb 1994

