Title: CHICKEN TANDOORI #1 OF 2
Categories: Chicken, Barbecue, Indian, Low-cal
Yield: 4 Servings
8    Chicken legs with thighs
- attached
1/3 c  Lemon juice
2 1/2 ts Meat tenderizer
- unseasoned; natural
MMMMM----------------FOR LOVELY VERMILLION COLOR---------------------
1 tb Red food coloring
2 tb Yellow food coloring
MMMMM------------------------FOR MARINADE-----------------------------
1 c  Yogurt; plain
2 lg Garlic cloves
1 tb Ginger root; fresh; chopped
1 ts Cumin seeds; roasted;ground*
1/2 ts Cardamom; ground
1/2 ts Red cayenne pepper
Ghee or vegetable oil;
- for basting
*HOW TO ROAST CUMIN SEEDS: Take a small sauce pan or frying pan and
heat it until moderately hot. Put in the cumin seeds and shake pan
back and forth or stir until seeds turn from dark green to brown.
This happens very quickly. Remove seeds immediately. When cool, grind
to a powder. If this seems like a big hassle, just use powdered
cumin. Flavor of dish will be only slightly different from original.

**ABOUT GHEE: Ghee is clarified butter. I usually use a mixture of
half margarine and salad oil.

DIRECTIONS: 1. Remove skin from chicken legs. Prick the chicken all
over with fork or thin skewer. Make diagonal slashes, 1/2- inch deep,
1 inch apart on the meat. Mix food colors together, and using a
pastry brush, paint chicken. Coloring will stain fingers, so be
careful. Put the meat in a large bowl.

2. Add meat tenderizer and lemon juice to the chicken, and rub them
into the slashes and all over for 2 minutes. Cover and marinate for
1/2 hour.

3. Put all the ingredients of the marinade into the container of an
electric blender or good processor, and blend until reduced to a
smooth sauce. (Alternatively, garlic and ginger may be crushed to
paste and blended with the remaining ingredients.)

4. Pour this marinade over the chicken pieces and mix, turning and
tossing, to coat all the pieces well. Cover and marinate for 4 hours
at room temperature, or refrigerate overnight, turning several times.
(I refrigerated chicken) Chicken should not remain in the marinade
for more than 2 days, because the marinade contains a meat tenderizer
which, with prolonged marinating, alters the texture of the chicken
meat to very soft and doughy.

SOURCE: "Classic Indian Cooking" by Julie Sahni. Format in
Meal-Master by Karen Adler, SPXB77A@prodigy.com.

