Title: CHICKEN POT PIE WITH HERBS
Categories: Chicken
Yield: 4 Servings
2 tb Butter
1    Onion, chopped (Or 1 cup
-chopped leeks, white
Part only)
1/2 ts Minced fresh sage
1/2 ts Minced thyme leaves
2 ts Minced fresh garlic
2 tb Minced sweet green pepper
2 tb Flour
1 1/2    To 1 3/4 cups strongly
-flavored chicken stock,
-heated
2 c  Cooked chicken cut into
-3/4-inch chunks
1 tb Chopped sweet marjoram
1 c  Yellow turnip, peeled and
-cut into 1/2-inch
Pieces
2 c  Waxy potatoes, peeled and
-cut into 1/2-inch
Pieces
2 c  Carrots, peeled and cut into
-1/2-inch pieces
Salt
Cayenne pepper
Melt the butter in a heavy
-saucepan and add the onion,
-sage and thyme
Cook, stirring frequently, for about 3 minutes.  Stir in the garlic
and green pepper; cook for an additional 2 minutes. Remove from the
heat and stir in the flour. Cook for a minute or two to remove the
floury taste, then pour in the chicken stock, stirring constantly.
The stock should thicken slightly.  Add the chicken and sweet
marjoram and set aside. Meanwhile, cook the turnip and potatoes in
boiling water for 5 minutes. Add the carrots and cook for 3 minutes
more. Remove the pan from the heat and let the vegetables sit in the
water while you make the biscuits or roll out the pie crust. BISCUIT
TOPPING: 2 cups flour 2 1/2 tsp baking powder 5 Tbl shortening 3/4
cup milk Stir together the flour and baking powder. Cut in the
shortening with a pastry blender until it is the size of small peas.
Stir in the milk with a fork. Pat the dough together. If you overmix
it, the dough will be tough. Pat the dough to a 1-inch thickness. Cut
the biscuits with a biscuit cutter or a straight-sided glass dipped
in flour. TO ASSEMBLE THE PIE: Drain the vegetables and add them to
the chicken mixture.  Taste the mixture and season with salt and a
generous pinch of cayenne pepper. Pour the filling into a deep pie
plate. Top with the biscuits (OR the crust; see the Variation). Place
on a cookie sheet (in case the sauce drips) and bake in a preheated
400 F oven for 15 minutes or until the biscuits are browned.
VARIATION: PARSLEY CRUST "The amount of liquid depends upon the
amount of moisture in the air. One trick in making pie crust is to
add just enough liquid so that the dough barely holds togather. Then
let it sit in the refrigerator for 20 minutes. The flour particles
will swell and absorb the liquid and you will have a more tender
crust." 1 cup flour 4 Tbl shortening 2 to 3 Tbl water, milk, or
chicken stock Place the flour in a bowl. Cut in the shortening with a
pastry blender. Little by little, add the liquid, tossing the mixture
with a fork. Add the parsley, press together and place in the
refrigerator for 20 minutes. Roll out on a floured surface. Place
over the pie, cut air vents, and crimp the edges. Bake in a preheated
425 F oven for 15 to 20 minutes. Let the pie set for a minute before
serving VARIATION: Replace the potatoes with 2 cups of raw zucchini,
cut into 1 inch pieces. Add the chicken stock along with the chicken.

