Title: CHICKEN SALAD W/GRAPEFRUIT~ MINT~ & LEMON GRA
Categories: Chicken, Salads, Vietnamese
Yield: 4 Servings  * (Thit Ga Tron Voi Buoi,Rau Thom Va Sa).

3.  To make the pancakes, beat the eggs, Nuoc Mam sauce, and pepper
together with 1/2 teaspoon water in a bowl. Brush the bottom of a
non-stick omelet pan with some oil and place over moderate heat until
hot. Pour in half the egg mixture and tilt the pan immediately to
spread the mixture evenly over the bottom - the pancake should be
paper-thin. Cook until the egg is set - this should not take more
than 30 seconds. Turn and cook on the other side for about 15
seconds. Set aside. Repeat, using up the rest of the mixture and set
aside. 4. Combine the garlic, chili, sugar, lime juice, vinegar, and
Nuoc Mam sauce in a bowl. Stir to blend thoroughly. Set the dressing
aside. 5. Drain the dried shrimp and pound or blend in a blender or
processor until very fine. Set aside. 6. Cover the pork with water
and bring to a boil over a high heat. Lower and boil for about 30
minutes or until the juices run clear when the meat is pierced with a
knife.  Run cold water over the pork and set aside. 7. Cook the raw
shrimp in boiling water until just pink - about 2 minutes. Run cold
water over them, drain, peel, de vein, and cut lengthwise in halves.
Shred the shrimp and set aside. 8. Sprinkle salt over the cucumber
and carrot, and leave to stand for 15 minutes. Run cold water over
them and squeeze dry with your hands.  It is imperative that the
vegetables are bone dry to ensure their crunchiness. 9. Dip the
beansprouts in salted boiling water for 30 seconds. Run cold water
over them and drain. 10. Cut the egg pancakes into strips. combine
the egg pancake strips, dried shrimp, shredded shrimp, chicken,
cucumber, carrot, beansprouts, mint, lemon grass, grapefruit, and
sesame seeds.  Mix well with your hands and pout over the dressing
mixture. 11. Transfer to as serving dish or serve separately, and
sprinkle the ground peanuts over it. Garnish with cilantro. Serve
with shrimp chips on which guests place bite-sized portions of the
salad. Alternatively, serve in hollowed grapefruit shells instead of
a serving dish.

Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.

~ - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

: "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
Recipe By
Books
See Pt. 1 for ingredients & steps 1 and 2

Date: Sat, 19 Oct 1996 13:43:29
From: Cupcake@wenet.Net
~0700

