Title: CHICKEN TANDOORI #2 OF 2
Categories: Indian
Yield: 4 Servings
- continued below
5. Take the chicken from the refrigerator at least 1 hour before
cooking to bring it to room temperature. The chicken is now ready to
be either roasted in the oven or broiled over an electric or charcoal
grill.

TO ROAST IN THE OVEN: Start heating the oven to 500-550 degrees F.
Take the chicken legs out of the marinade. Brush them with ghee or
oil, and place them on a wire rack in a shallow roasting pan. Set the
pan in the middle level of the oven, and roast for 25-30 minutes, or
until the meat is cooked through. There is no need to baste while the
chicken pieces are roasting, because the enclosed environment keeps
the chickens from drying excessively. (I made the chicken this way,
and it tasted just like the Indian restaurant's did.)

TO BROIL INDOORS: Preheat the broiler. Brush the grill with a little
oil to prevent the meat's sticking. Place the chicken legs, slashed
side up, on the grill, and brush the slashed side with ghee or oil.
Cook 2 to 3 inches away from the heat for 20 minutes. Turn and cook
the other side for another 10 minutes, or until the chicken pieces
are cooked through. Brush often with ghee or oil during cooking.

TO GRILL OUTDOORS: Fire the coal well in advance (about 1-1/2 hours
before you are ready to begin cooking), so that a white ash forms
over the surface of the coal. This is when the coal is at its
hottest. Place the grill at least 5 inches away from the heat, and
rub generously with oil. Place the chicken pieces, slashed side up,
over the grill and brush them with ghee or oil. Let chicken cook
without turning for 10 minutes. Turn, baste the other side, and cook
for 10 minutes. continue to cook, turning and basting the chicken
every 10 minutes, until it is done. The cooking time for broiling and
grilling usually varies widely. Much depends upon the intensity of
the heat and its distance from the chicken. The point to remember is
that the chicken pieces have been marinating in a very strong
tenderizing solution for two days and therefore will cook much faster
than standard broiled or barbecued chicken. Serve the chicken
immediately, lightly brushed with ghee or oil and accompanied by
Roasted Onions (Bhone Piaz).

SOURCE: "Classic Indian Cooking" by Julie Sahni. Format in
Meal-Master by Karen Adler, SPXB77A@prodigy.com.

