Title: CHICKEN BREASTS STUFFED W/GARLIC~ GINGER~ HAM
Categories: Spice mix, Pork
Yield: 4 Servings
6    Boneless chicken breasts
Salt & fresh ground pepper
3 tb Lemon juice
1/2 lb Ham; finely chopped
-- (about one cup)
2    To 3 garlic clove
-- peeled & finely chopped
2 tb Fresh ginger
-- peeled & finely chopped
4 tb Fresh tarragon; chopped
-- (or preserved in vinegar)
1 lg Lemon; chopped zest of
Lemon juice or white wine
Butter
Vegetable mirepoix
1 c  Chicken stock
1 c  Whipping cream
Salt and pepper; to taste
To prepare chicken breasts, place between sheets of waxed paper.
Gently pound with a mallet until flat and tender. Sprinkle each with
salt, pepper and lemon juice. Keep covered in refrigerator.

To make stuffing, combine ham, garlic, ginger, half the tarragon and
about 2/3 of the lemon zest in a bowl, blending well. Add a dash of
lemon juice or wine to moisten.

To stuff breasts, place equal amounts of filling on center of each.
Bring sides up to encase filling, shaping with your hands into a
round package and tucking in ends to seal. Greasy the shiny side of
six, foot-long strips of foil, about 2 inches wide. Encircle each
breast with foil, greased side in, pulling tightly so that foil wraps
around breast. (This retains shape during baking.)  Fold over edge on
top to secure foil. Brush tops of chicken with butter. Sprinkle with
salt, pepper and a little tarragon. Can be refrigerated, covered at
this point, if baking is to be done several hours later.

Preheat oven to 400 F.  Place the vegetable mirepoix in bottom of a
large baking dish.  Place chicken breasts on top of vegetables. Pour
enough wine around bottom of pan just to cover mirepoix. Bake 10 to
12 minutes, then turn heat down to 350 degrees. Baste chicken. Cover
pan loosely with foil and bake another 15 minutes or until chicken
breasts are done but still moist inside. Remove foil covering from
pan; turn broiler on to brown chicken tops, about 2 minutes.

Remove pan from oven.  Place chicken on heated platter and keep warm;
carefully remove foil strips. Meanwhile, remove and discard mirepoix
vegetables from roasting pan. Place pan on top of stove. Remove any
surface fat and bring to a boil.  Add chicken stock and cream and
reduce over high heat, stirring until of desired consistency. Taste
and adjust seasonings.

To serve, garnish chicken breasts with remaining lemon zest and
tarragon. Place a little sauce on a heated plate, then place chicken
breast on top.

Good served with rice-stuffed tomatoes.

Serves 4 to 6, depending upon size of chicken breasts.

Note:  Mirepoix means aromatic vegetables (carrot, celery and onion)
chopped and placed in the bottom of a roasting pan).

Most of this dish can be prepared in advance.

From Nancy Enright's Canadian Herb Cookbook.  By Nancy Enright.
Toronto: James Lorimer & Company Publishers, 1985. Pp. 56-57. ISBN
0-88862-788-2. Posted by Cathy Harned.

