Title: CARCIOFI ALLA GIUDIA
Categories: Antipasti, Mine, Hc
Yield: 4 Servings
MMMMM--------------------ENGLISH TRANSLATION-------------------------
Deep-fried Artichokes,
Jewish Style
MMMMM------------------------INGREDIENTS-----------------------------
4 sm Artichokes
1/2    Lemon
Salt to taste
Freshly ground black pepper
1 c  Plain bread crumbs, spread
-over aluminum foil
Vegetable oil; for frying
Cut off half of each artichoke stems.  Remove and discard all outer
green leaves until you reach the white central cone. At this point,
you will see that three-quarters of the leaves are white and the tip
of the cone is pale green.  Slice off the green top.

With a small knife, trim off the outer green part of each artichoke's
green bottom.

Gently open each artichoke with your hands and remove the fuzzy choke
with a spoon or melon scooper.  Rub the lemon over the cut edges of
the artichokes and season them inside with salt and pepper. Gently
open the artichoke leaves as far as they can go without breaking them
off, and holding the artichokes by their stems, press the open leaves
into the gread crumbs to coat lightly.

Heat two inches of oil in a medium-size saucepan over medium heat to
250F to 257F.  Lower the artichokes into the oil and cook about 10
minutes. Turn the artichokes a few times to they will fry evenly.
Lower the heat if the artichokes turn golden too fast.  With a thin
knife, prick thier bottoms to test for doneness. They are done when
they can be easily pierced. Transfer the artichokes to peper towels
to drain. (The artichokes can be prepared up to this point severl
hours ahead.)

Just before you are ready to serve them, pour two inches of oil in
another medium-size sacuepan over medium-high heat. When the oil is
very hot, but not smoking, about 375F, carefully add one artichoke.
With two long wooden spoons, or a long tong, hold the artichoke
open-face down, pressing the leaves gently against the bottom of the
pan to open them further. Hold the artichoke in that position for
about 30 seconds. Transfer the artichoke to peper towels to drain.
Repeat with the other artichokes. The second frying should take no
longer than 2 to 3 minutes. Sprinkle them lightly with salt and serve
hot.

From:  Trattoria Cooking

