Title: CARCIOFI ALLA ROMANA
Categories: Antipasti, Mine, Hc
Yield: 4 Servings
MMMMM--------------------ENGLISH TRANSLATION-------------------------
Baked Artichokes Roman Style
MMMMM------------------------INGREDIENTS-----------------------------
4 sm Artichokes
1/2    Lemon
3    Fresh bread slices, crusts
-removed, finely chopped
1/3 c  Chopped fresh parsley
10    Fresh mint leaves; or
1 ts -dried mint, crumbled
2    Cloves garlic, minced
1/2 c  Olive oil
Salt; to taste
Freshly ground black pepper
Remove and discard the tougher outer leaves of the artichokes. Cut the
remaining leaves halfway, with scissors, until you reach the central
cone of leaves. At this point you will see that three-quarters of the
leaves are white and the tip of the cone is pale green. Slice off the
green top.

Gently open the artichokes with your hands and remove the fuzzy
chokes with a spoon or a melon scooper.  Rub the lemon over the cut
edges of the artichokes to prevent discoloration.

With a small knife, trim off the outer green part of the artichokes'
green bottoms.  Trim the stalks, leaving about 2 inches intact. Trim
away the greener outer part of the stalks, leaving the white part of
the stalks intact.  Rub the cut edges of the artichokes with more
lemon.

In a small bowl, combine the bread, parsley, mint, garlic, and oil,
and season.  Push the stuffing between the artichoke leaves and into
each artichoke cavity.

Place the artichokes, with their stalks pointing upward, in a small
casserole.  Add the remaining oil and just enough water to come
halfway up the artichokes. (If you have any stuffing left, add it to
the casserole).

Brush a piece of parchment paper with olive oil and place over
artichokes.
Cover the casserole with a tight lid and bake at 375F until tender,
30 to 40 mintues.  Cool to room temperature.

Arrange the artichokes with their stemps upward on a serving dish. If
there is still quite a bit of watery juice in the casserole, cook it
down over high heat until you 4 to 5 tablespoons left. Pour the sauce
over the artichokes, let cool, and serve.

From:  Trattoria Cooking

