Title: CARROT CAKE WITH MARMALADE CREAM CHEESE FROST
Categories: Cakes, Nuts, Desserts
Yield: 12 Servings
2 c  Unbleached all purpose flour
2 ts Baking soda
2 ts Baking powder
2 ts Ground cinnamon
1/2 ts Salt
4 lg Eggs
3/4 c  Vegetable oil
3/4 c  Sugar
2/3 c  Packed golden brown sugar
1/2 c  Orange marmalade
1/2 c  Orange juice
3 c  (lightly packed) grated
Peeled carrots
3/4 c  Chopped toasted walnuts
MMMMM--------------------------FROSTING-------------------------------
4    8-oz packages cream cheese,
Room temperature
2 c  Powdered sugar
1 1/4 c  (about) orange marmalade
6 tb (3/4 stick) unsalted butter,
Room temperature
2 ts Grated orange peel
1 1/4 c  Finely chopped toasted
Walnuts (about 6 oz)
FOR CAKE: Preheat oven to 350-degree F. Butter and flour two
9-inch-diameter cake pans with 2-inch-high sides. Sift first 5
ingredients into medium bols. Beat eggs, oil, sugars, marmalade and
juice in large bowl until blended.  Stir in dry ingredients.  Fold in
carrots and nuts. Divide batter between cake pans. Bake until tester
inserted into centers comes out clean, about 40 minutes.  Transfer
cakes to racks; cool 15 minutes. Turn out cakes onto racks; cool
completely.

FOR FROSTING: Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese and sugar in
large bowl until smooth.  Add 3/4 cup marmalade, butter and orange
peel and beat just until smooth. If necessary, cover and chill until
firm enough to spread.

Place 1 cake on plate.  Spread with 1/4 cup marmalade. Spread 1 cup
frosting over.  Top with second cake. Spoon 2 cups frosting into
pastry bag fitted with large star tip. Spread remaining frosting
smoothly over top and sides of cake.

Pipe frosting in 4 parallel lines atop cake in opposite direction,
forming lattice.  Press 1 cup nuts onto sides of cake. Pipe ring of
frosting around top edge of cake. Stir 1/4 cup marmalade to loosen;
spoon some into 1 row of lattice diamonds.  Spoon some remaining nuts
into next row of diamonds. Repeat, alternating marmalade and nuts,
filling rows completely. (Can be made 2 days ahead.  Cover with cake
dome and chill.)

SOURCE: BON APPETIT, May '93

