Title: CARROT WALNUT CAKE
Categories: Cakes
Yield: 12 Servings
3 c  Unsifted all-purpose flour
2 ts Baking powder
1 ts Baking soda
1 ts Ground cinnamon
1/2 ts Salt
1 lb Carrots
1 c  Butter or margarine
-softened
1 c  Light brown sugar, packed
1 c  Granulated sugar
4    Eggs
2 tb Grated lemon peel
2 tb Grated orange peel
2 tb Lemon juice
2 tb Orange juice
1 c  Chopped walnuts
1 c  Seedless raisins
MMMMM---------------------CREAM CHEESE GLAZE--------------------------
8 oz Cream cheese, softened
1 tb Lemon juice
1 ts Grated lemon peel
1 1/2 c  Confectioners sugar
1/2 c  Coarsely chopped walnuts
This is billed as the richest carrot cake receipe ever.

1. Lightly grease and flour a 10-by-4-inch tube pan. Sift flour with
baking powder, sodat, cinnamon and salt; set asode. Wash and pare
carrots; grate on medium grater or use coarse blade of food
processor. Should measure 4 cups. Preheat oven to 350F.

2. In large bowl of mixer, at high speed, beat butter and brown and
granulated sugars, occasionally scraping side of bowl with rubber
scraper, until light and fluffy-about 4 minutes. Add eggs, one at a
time; beat well after each addition until smooth and light.

3. In measuring cup, combine lemon and orange peels and juices. At low
speed, beat in flour mixture (in fourths), alternately with
lemon-orange mixture (in thirds), beginning and ending with flour
mixture. Beat just until smooth-about 1 minute.

4. With wooden spoon, stir in grated carrot, nuts and raisins; mix
well. Turn into the prepared tube pan; spread evenly. Bake 60
minutes, or until a cake tester inserted in center of the cake comes
out clean. Cool in pan on wire rack 20 minutes, to cool slightly.

5. Meanwhile, make cream-cheese glaze: In medium bowl, combine cream
cheese, lemon juice, lemon peel and confectioners' sugar. With
portable electric mixer at high speed, beat mixture until smooth. Set
aside. Gently loosen edge of cake with spatula.

6. Turn out of pan onto rack.  Spread glase over top of the warm cake,
letting it run down side of cake. Carefully remove cake to cake
platter. Sprinkle chopped walnuts around top edge of cake. Serves 12.
Submitted By RHOMMEL <RHOMMEL@IX.NETCOM.COM>  On THU, 9 NOV 1995
170615 ~0500

