Title: CATALAN SHREDDED SALT COD SALAD
Categories: Fish
Yield: 4 Servings
1 lb Salt cod -- boneless, dried
1 sm Red or green bell pepper --
Prepared
1/2 lg Red onion -- thinly sliced
1 lg Tomato -- thinly sliced
1/3 c  Fruity Spanish olive oil
1/4 c  Red wine vinegar
4 lg Garlic cloves -- finely
Chopped
1/2 ts Freshly ground black pepper
1/2 c  Oil cured black olives
3    Hardboiled eggs --
Quartered
1/2 sm Bunch oregano leaves- finely
-chopped
To prepare the salt cod, rinse it well and then immerse it in a
container of cold water (cut into chunks, if necessary, to fit).
Refrigerate, changing the soaking water 5 or 6 times, until softened
and mild (24 to 48 hours, depending on how stiff and salty it was to
begin with).

Drain the cod, place it in a large saucepan with the onion and the bay
leaves, and cover with cold water. Bring just to a boil, reduce the
heat to very low, and cover (taste the water at this stage and, if it
seems excessively salty, then drain, cover again with fresh cold
water, and bring to a boil). Simmer very gently until the fish is
opaque and plumped, and falls apart into heavy flakes when prodded,
about 20 minutes. Drain, pat dry, and remove the bones and skin, if
necessary. Separate into large flakes and use right away, or
refrigerate for up to 2 days before continuing with the recipe.

Drain and press the cod with your fingers to extract as much water as
possible. Shred the cod by hand into thin strips and transfer it to a
large bowl.

Core, seed and wash the pepper.  Cut into thin rings. Separate rings
of onion. Select 1 large, firm, ripe tomato and slice it thinly.

Add the pepper rings, onion, and tomato to the bowl and toss together
gently. In another bowl, combine the oil, vinegar, garlic, pepper,
and if desired, a little salt (the salt cod is usually still quite
salty; taste it to determine if the vinaigrette needs any salt).
Whisk the vinaigrette together until thoroughly blended.

Using your hands, toss the salad with the vinaigrette until all the
ingredients are coated. Transfer the salad to a platter and garnish
the edges with olives and wedges of hardboiled egg. Scatter the
oregano over the dish.  Yields 6 servings

: Feniger and Milliken, Too Hot Tamales, TVFN
Recipe By

