Title: CATHE'S BURGUNDY-MUSHROOM GRAVY
Categories: Condiments, Holiday, Cathe
Yield: 1 Batch
4 tb Butter
1 lb Mushrooms (fresh), cleaned,
-trimmed and sliced thinly
1 lg Onion, finely chopped
1 c  Burgundy wine
-(or other red wine)
4 tb Flour
10 oz Chicken broth (canned)
1 c  Water (more as needed)
1/2 ts Garlic flakes, dried
Melt the butter in a small pan (about 1-quart size). Add the
mushrooms to the pan and cook over medium heat until all the liquid
that cooks out of them has evaporated and you just have the oil from
the butter (in the pan with the mushrooms). Stir frequently so they
brown, but do not burn.

Add the chopped onion and red wine.  Continue cooking until all the
liquid has cooked out (you are left with just the oil from the butter
in the pan, with the mushrooms and onions). IT IS VERY IMPORTANT THAT
THERE BE NO LIQUID LEFT IN THE PAN OTHER THAN THE OIL FROM THE
BUTTER. (The onions may cook down until you can't see them.)

Add the flour to the mushroom mixture.  Stir well so that the oil
from the butter is absorbed by the flour. Add the entire can of
chicken broth at once and stir well. The broth and the flour/butter
mixture should combine to make a thick liquid. This may not thicken
until it starts to boil. Stir constantly, or the mixture will stick
to the bottom of the pan.

Add enough water to make the gravy have a consistency you like. I
like mine thick, so a cup of water is enough. Lower the heat. Add the
dried minced garlic and cook over low heat until the garlic flakes
absorb enough liquid to no longer be crunchy.

Cathe's notes:

*  Created in California, 1976.

Vicki's notes:

*  When Cathe first gave me this recipe (mid '80s), it said to saute
the onion in 1 T olive oil (then remove onions). Then cook only *1/2
pound* of mushrooms in the oil, and add 1/4 t garlic salt (no garlic
flakes). The recipe said to brown the mushrooms until no juice was
left and mushrooms were "squeaky." Then add half the wine, cook down,
add rest of wine, and cook down.

Return onions and add just *1 tablespoon* of butter; stir in *1/4
cup* of flour, stirring frequently, till very brown. Then it said to
add half the chicken broth, mix well, add rest, and cook at "gentle
bubble" till thickened.

"If too thick, add up to 1/2 cup of water; cook at slow bubble till
flour taste is gone."

