Title: CHAAMP MASALA (LAMB CHOPS MASALA)
Categories: Main dish, Indian, Meat
Yield: 1 Servings
3    In piece of fresh ginger
Peeled and coarsely chopped
3 tb Peeled and coarsely chopped
Garlic
6    8 lamb chops from the ribs,
Remove all extra fat
8 fl Oz grated or finely chopped
Tomatoes
2 md Sized onions very finely
Chopped
1 tb Cayenne
12 fl Oz Greek yoghurt beaten
1 1/2 ts Salt
1 ts Ground roasted cumin seeds
1    2 tsps Punjabi garam masala
3 tb Lemon juice
2    3 tbsps chopped fresh green
Coriander
Put the ginger and garlic into the container of an electric blender
with 2-3 tablespoons of water and blend to a paste.

Put the chops, tomatoes, onions, cayenne pepper, yoghurt, salt and
ginger-garlic paste into a large wok or heavy-bottomed saucepan. Stir
and bring to the boil. Turn the heat to low, cover and simmer for 50
minutes or until the chops are almost cooked. Add the cumin seeds and
simmer for 10 to 15 minutes or until the meat is tender and the sauce
thick. Add the garam masala and lemon juice and stir.

Sprinkle fresh coriander over the top and serve.

TIPS

In the Punjab, tomatoes are grated to make a puree - don't be tempted
to use ready-prepared tomato puree instead of fresh.

The spice combinations in garam masala vary in different parts of
India. In the Punjab this one which you can try making yourself is
common: 5 tbsps coriander seeds, 3 tbsps cumin seeds, 2 1/2 tbsps
black peppercorns, 2 1/2 black cardamom seeds, 2 in cinnamon stick,
4-5 cloves, 1/6 nutmeg. Put the coriander and the cumin into a
cast-iron frying-pan over a medium heat. Stir until lightly roasted.
Allow to cool. Grind with the remaining ingredients in a clean coffee
grinder and store in a tightly lidded jar.

Madhur Jaffrey's Flavours of India - Punjab

This rich flavoursome dish originates in the fertile Punjab, a state
now divided between India and Pakistan. There is nothing more
important to a Punjabi man's diet than bread, and meals are
accompanied by flat round cornbread rotis or rich, flaky pan-fried
paratha layered with ghee (clarified butter).

Rice is reserved for special occasions or for rice pudding, for the
only food that makes a Punjabi feel he has eaten a proper meal is his
bread! You of course, can serve this dish with plain boiled rice.

