Title: CHARLIE BROWN'S PEANUT COOKIES
Categories: Cookies, Chocolate
Yield: 6 Servings
2 c  Sifted all-purpose flour
1 ts Double-acting baking powder
1/2 ts Cinnamon
1/2 lb (2 sticks) butter
1 c  Dark brown sugar, firmly
-packed
2    Eggs (leave 1 egg whole and
-separate the other) 1 tsp.
-water 10 ounces
(2-1/4 cups) salted peanuts (dry roasted), chopped medium fine Scant
3/4 cup smooth (not chunky) peanut butter 4 ounces (2/3 cup) semisweet
chocolate morsels

Sift together the flour, baking powder, and cinnamon and set aside.
In the large bowl of an electric mixer cream the butter. Add the
sugar and beat to mix. Beat in 1 whole egg and 1 egg yolk. On low
speed gradually add the sifted dry ingredients, scraping the bowl
with a rubber spatula and beating only until thoroughly mixed.

Place a long piece os wax paper on the work surface. Divide the dough
into 36 equal mounds on the wax paper. Use a heaping teaspoonful for
each mound. Flour your hands and roll each mound into a round ball.
Place on waxed paper.

Preheat the oven to 375.  Cut aluminum foil to fit cookie sheets.

In a small, shallow bowl, beat the reserved egg white with the water,
beating until foamy.

Place the chopped peanuts on a long piece of aluminum foil or wax
paper. Pick up a cookie and use your fingers to roll it around in the
egg white and then place it on the chopped nuts. Roll it around and
coat thoroughly. Coat 4 or 5 cookies at a time.  Place the cookies 2
inches apart on the cut aluminum foil.

Form a depression in the top of each cookie, either with the handle
of a large wooden spoon or your thumb. Make the depression rather
deep and wide but not so deep that you make the bottom of the cookie
too thin.

Place a generous 1/2 tsp. of the peanut butter in each indentation.
Place about 5 or 6 chocolate morsels on the top of each cookie,
pressing them slightly.

Bake for 12 to 13 minutes.  Let cool 1 to 2 minutes on sheet. When at
room temperature refrigerate briefly to set the chocolate.

From: Maida Heatter's Book of Great Cookies Shared By: Pat Stockett

