Title: CHARRED TOMATO SOUP WITH CORN & PEPPER RELI
Categories: Soup, Tomatoes
Yield: 4 Servings
1 c  Wood chips for smoking --
Mesquite
2    Ears corn
1    Red bell pepper
2 1/2 lb Roma tomatoes
2 tb Olive oil
3 tb Green onion -- thinly
Sliced
2 c  Chicken broth
1 tb Lime juice
1 1/2 ts Fresh sage -- minced
4    Sprigs sage -- optional
4 pn Salt -- to taste
#1.  If using mesquite chips, soak them in water to cover for at
least 20 minutes or up to 1 hour. Remove husks and silks from about 1
3/4 pounds of corn on the cob. Stem, seed and halve lengthwise a red
or orange bell pepper. Select ripe romas or Italian plum tomatoes;
cut each in half lengthwise. #2. Drain chips well. In a barbecue with
a lid, scatter half the chips over a solid bed of very hot coals (you
can hold your hand at grill level only 1 second). For gas grills,
turn on high, let heat 10 minutes, then put half the chips in a foil
pan and set directly on flame in a corner of the grill. #3. Place
corn and pepper halves on a well-oiled grill 4 to 6 inches above
coals. Close lid, open vents, and cook until vegetables are lightly
charred, 8 to l0 minutes; turn occasionally during cooking. Remove
from grill and set aside. #4. Scatter remaining chips over the coals
(or place in the foil pan). Brush cut sides of tomatoes with olive
oil. Place tomatoes cut sides down on the grill. Close lid and cook
until tomatoes are slightly charred, about 7 minutes. With a spatula,
carefully remove tomatoes from grill. Reserve 4 nice-looking tomato
halves. #5. Place remaining tomatoes in a blender with the chicken
broth. Whirl until smooth; blend in batches if necessary. Transfer
tomato mixture to a 4- to 5-quart soup pan. Stir often over medium
heat until steaming, 8 to 10 minutes. #6. While soup heats, cut corn
from cobs and coarsely chop pepper. Mix together corn kernels,
pepper, green onion, lime juice, and sage leaves. #7. Divide tomato
soup equally among 4 bowls. Spoon equal amounts of corn relish into
the center of the soup. Lay 1 reserved tomato half, cut side up, next
to each pile of corn and garnish with a sage sprig. Add salt to taste.

Per serving: 203 cal., 41% (84 cal.) from fat 6.4 g protein; 9.3 g
fat ( 1.5 g sat.), 29 g carbo. 91 mg sodium: 1.9 mg chol.

[mcRecipe patH 19Au96]

: Sunset September 1996
Recipe By

From:

