Title: CHARD-WRAPPED SALMON & DUXELLES
Categories: Fish, Main dish, Cyberealm
Yield: 2 Servings
1/3 lb Mushrooms; commercial, wild,
-or a mixture of both
2 tb Butter
1/2 c  Onion; finely diced
1    Clove Garlic; minced
1 pn Dried Savory; crumbled
1 pn Pepper
1/4 ts Salt
2 tb Dry Sherry or Madeira
12 oz Salmon Fillets; cross-cut
4 lg Swiss Chard Leaves; stemmed,
-blanched, rinsed in cold
-water, drained and patted
-dry
1/2 c  Brown Veal or Poultry Stock
1 oz Dry White Wine
Finely dice the mushrooms (if using wild mushrooms with an interesting
shape, cut them into long strips or wedges.) Melt 1 tb of the butter
in a large non-stick skillet over medium-high heat. Add the mushrooms
and onion and cook, shaking or stirring, until the mushrooms begin to
wilt. Add the garlic, savory, pepper, and 1/8 ts salt. Cook until the
liquid given off by the mushrooms is nearly gone, then add the sherry
and cook until evaporated. Remove from heat, taste for seasoning, and
set aside to cool.

Remove any pin bones from the salmon fillets and season lightly with
remaining salt and pepper. Lay out 2 chard leaves in opposite
directions, slightly overlapping. Place a salmon fillet across the
middle, skin side up (if the belly flap is especially long or thin,
fold it double for a more compact, even shape.) Arrange 1/4 of the
mushrooms mixture on each side of the salmon. Fold the near end of
the leaves over the fish, tuck in the sides, then fold the whole
thing over the remaining leaf, forming an envelope. Trim off the
remainder of the leaf to form a neat package. Repeat with the
remaining salmon fillet.

Heat the stock and wine to a simmer in the same skillet used for the
mushrooms. Place the salmon packages in the pan, seam side down,
cover, and cook at a simmer until a skewer easily enters the center
of the fish, 8-12 minutes depending on the thickness.

Transfer the fish to plates, turn the heat under the skillet to high,
and reduce the stock slightly. Swirl in the remaining butter, taste
for seasoning, and pour over the fish.

Per Serving: Calories: 415, Protein: 32 g, Carbohydrate: 9 g, Fat: 27
g, Saturated Fat: 11 g, Cholesterol: 125 mg, Sodium: 495 mg, Fiber
: 2 g.

Source: San Francisco Chronicle Typed by Katherine Smith

