Title: CHAYOTE & CORN STUFFED CHILIES WITH RED SAU
Categories: Appetizers
Yield: 10 Chilies
10 lg Fresh long green chilies
MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
1 tb Vegetable oil
2    Garlic cloves; minced
1/2    Onion; finely diced
1 lg Chayote squash
-- seeded, finely diced
1 c  Corn kernels
1/2 ts Salt
1/2 ts Ground red chili pepper
Black pepper, to taste
2 tb Lemon juice
1/2 c  Coarse breadcrumbs
1 tb Nutritional yeast (optional)
MMMMM---------------------------BATTER--------------------------------
1 c  Cornmeal
2/3 c  All-purpose flour
1 ts Baking powder
3/4 ts Salt
1 1/4 c  Water
Vegetable oil; for frying
MMMMM-------------------------RED SAUCE------------------------------
1 c  Tomato sauce
2    Garlic cloves
1/2    Onion
1 1/2 c  Water
1 tb Ground red chili pepper
1/2 ts Salt (or to taste)
1/4 ts Cinnamon
1/4 ts Ground cumin
Roast chili peppers according to your favorite method. (I don't have
a gas stove or other type of open flame, so I heat the oven to the
hottest temperature, then bake the peppers on a heavy-duty baking
sheet, turning if necessary to char all sides.  The roasted peppers
are placed in a bowl, covered, then allowed to steam a few minutes to
help facilitate removal of the peels.) Carefully remove peels from
roasted peppers, leaving stems attached. Remove seeds by cutting a
slit along one side of each pepper and gently scraping and rinsing
out seeds and attached membranes. Pat dry and set aside. FILLING: In
a heavy skillet, heat oil on medium-high. Add garlic, onion and
chayote; cook until onion is translucent and mixture begins to brown,
stirring frequently. Remove pan from heat and add corn, chili pepper,
salt, black pepper, and lemon juice, stirring to combine well.
Gently mix in breadcrumbs and nutritional yeast. On a flat surface,
open up one pepper at a time and spread about 3 tablespoons of the
filling mixture down the center of each. Carefully roll sides of
pepper around filling to enclose, pressing firmly to shape. (Chilies
may be prepared ahead of time to this point, covered, and
refrigerated up to 24 hours.) BATTER: In a pie plate or shallow dish,
stir together cornmeal, flour, baking powder and salt. Gradually mix
in water to form a batter of medium consistency. Heat 1-1/2 inches of
oil in a large skillet over medium heat. Lightly roll each stuffed
chili pepper in flour. Carefully coat each pepper with batter, as
evenly as possible, using stem to help drag chili through mixture,
and a spoon to spread batter over top of chili if necessary. Fry
chilies in hot oil, two at a time, until lightly browned, turning
once. It should take about 3 to 4 minutes per side. Remove and drain
on absorbent paper. (The temperature and freshness of the oil is
important. If conditions are right, each chili will absorb LESS than
1 tablespoon of oil.) (If chilies must be prepared in advance, reheat
just before serving by placing them on a baking sheet in a preheated
350 F. oven until hot and crisp.) RED SAUCE: In a food processor or
blender, puree garlic and onion with tomato sauce. Transfer to a
saucepan and add water, ground red chili pepper, salt, cinnamon and
cumin. Cook sauce over medium heat for 30 minutes, stirring
frequently to prevent scorching. TO SERVE: Spoon a little sauce onto
each plate, spreading it around in a spiral fashion with the back of
the spoon to form a large circle. Place a chili onto circle of sauce,
drizzling a bit of additional sauce over top if desired, and garnish
with a few slices of avocado and/or some finely minced cilantro
leaves. A black bean salad and slices of cooling fresh melon and/or
tropical fruits would be nice accompaniments.

