Title: ANASAZI & PINTO BEANS WITH HOMINY & GREEN CHILES
Categories: Native amer, Stews
Yield: 6 Servings
1 1/2 c  Dried anasazi beans
1 1/2 c  Dried pinto beans
10 c  Water
1 ts Salt
3 c  Dried indian hominy
3    Green anaheim chiles, for
-garnish
Soak the beans overnight in water to cover.  In the morning rinse the
beans with cold water and place in a large pot with fresh water to
cover. Stir in the salt, cover and simmer slowly 2 to 2 1/2 hours,
until the beans are tender.  Add water when necessary and stir
occasionally to prevent the beans from burning.

Add hominy and simmer, covered, 1 hour, stirring occasionally.  The
hominy and beans should be very soft and moist, but not too watery.

While the beans and hominy are cooking, roast, peel, seed and dice the
chiles.  Sprinkle on top of the cooked beans for garnish. *****

Most southwestern Indians grow beans.  The Hopis grow a variety of
beans in terraces along their high mesas, where the crop is irrigated
by natural springs.  After the harvest the beans are dried and
stored. Some beans are used for ceremonial purposes - from weddings
to Kachina dances - while others are used for their day-to-day meals.

For suburban and city dwellers, I've found that pinto beans, white
beans, or red beans work well, but I suggest you also experiment with
some of the other varieties of beans - like anasazi beans - that are
now available commercially.  Or you may want to be adventuresome and
grow your own variety.  To round out this meal, the beans can be
served with Lamb Stuffed Green Chiles, Pan Fried Trout, or Venison
Steaks and one of the many Indian breads such as Piki bread, Indian
Frybread, or Adobe Bread.

***Note***  Anasazi, Navajo for "the ancient ones" is the name given
to the Native Americans who created the cliff dwellings in the
Southwest. The sweet-tasting anasazi bean, one of the first foods
cultivated by Native Americans, is high in protein and other
nutrients. It also has a beautiful color.

From "Native American Cooking," by Lois Ellen Frank

