Title: ANDOUILLE-CHEF FOLSE
Categories: Basics, Cajun, Sausage
Yield: 1 Servings
5 lb Pork butt
1/2 lb Pork fat
1/2 c  Chopped garlic
1/4 c  Cracked black pepper
2 tb Cayenne pepper
1 tb Dry thyme
4 tb Salt
6    Feet beef middle casing (see
-butcher or
Specialty shop)
Andouille is the Cajun smoked sausage so famous nationally today.
Made with pork butt, shank and a small amount of pork fat, this
sausage is seasoned with salt, cracked black pepper and garlic. The
andouille is then slowly smoked over pecan wood and sugar cane. True
andouille is stuffed into the beef middle casing which makes the
sausage approximately one and a half inches in diameter. When smoked,
it becomes very dark to almost black in color. It is not uncommon for
the Cajuns to smoke andouille for seven to eight hours at
approximately 175 degrees. Traditionally, the andouilles from France
were made from the large intestines and stomach of the pig, seasoned
heavily and smoked. In parts of Germany, where some say andouille
originated, the sausage was made with all remaining intestines and
casings pulled through a larger casing, seasoned and smoked. It was
served thinly sliced as an hors d'oeuvre. It is interesting to note
that the finest andouille in France comes from the Brittany and
Normandy areas. It is believed that over half of the Acadian exiles
who came to Louisiana in 1755 were originally from these coastal
regions. Cube pork butt into one and a half inch cubes. Using a meat
grinder with four one quarter inch holes in the grinding plate, grind
pork and pork fat. If you do not have a grinding plate this size, I
suggest hand cutting pork butt into one quarter inch square pieces.
Place ground pork in large mixing bowl and blend in all remaining
ingredients. Once well blended, stuff meat into casings in one foot
links, using the sausage attachement on your meat grinder. Tie both
ends of the sausage securely using a heavy gauge twine. In your
homestyle smoker, smoke andouille at 175-200 degrees F for
approximately four to five hours using pecan or hickory wood. The
andouille may then be frozen and used for seasoning gumbos, white or
red beans, pastas or grilling as an hors d'oeuvre. Recipe by: Chef
John Folse Louisiana's Premier Products 2517 South Philippe Avenue
Gonzales, LA 70737 (504) 644-6000

Recipe by: : Chef John Folse- Louisiana's Premier Products

