Title: ANTS CLIMBING UP A TREE
Categories: Pork
Yield: 6 Servings
1 lb Pork shoulder steak, boned
-and finely chopped, not
-ground
2 tb Soy sauce, light
2 tb Chinese rice wine or dry
-sherry
1 ts Ginger; grated
6    Scallions; thinly sliced
1 c  Finely chopped cabbage or
-Napa (celery cabbage)
1 oz Chinese dried mushrooms,
-soaked in water for 2
-hours,
Drained and finely chopped
-(reserve the water)
4 c  Oil, peanut; for deep frying
1    Package (4 ounce) glass
-noodles (sai fun)
2    Garlic cloves, chopped
1 tb Hot bean sauce
pn Sugar, granulated
Pepper, black; to taste
2 tb Cornstarch dissolved in 2
-tablespoons water
1 tb Oil, sesame, toasted
Iceberg lettuce leaves, 2 or 3 for each person Bone and finely chop
the pork. Do not grind this as you want very small pieces to "climb"
on the branches of the noodles. Marinate the pork in the soy, wine
and ginger for about 15 minutes. Slice the green onions. Finely chop
the cabbage and mushrooms, reserving the soaking water from the
mushrooms. Heat the oil in a wok until it is just beginning to smoke.
Use good ventilation in your kitchen for this one! Open the noodle
package and undo them a bit. Drop into the hot fat in small batches.
They will immediately puff up into wonderful white crunchy noodles.
Turn quickly to be sure that all of them are cooked. Remove from the
pan and drain on paper towels. Be very careful with this. You could
burn yourself. Set the noodles aside. Heat another wok or frying pan
and add 1 Tablespoon of the peanut oil. Add the chopped garlic and
toss for a moment. Add the meat and marinade and stir fry, mixing it
about, until the meat is tender but not dry, about 3 minutes on high
heat. Remove the meat mixture and add the vegetables to the wok. Stir
fry over high heat for 3 more minutes. Return the meat to the pan and
add the hot bean sauce, sugar and black pepper. Stir fry for 1 minute
and then add the cornstarch dissolved in the water. Stir until the
sauce thickens. If you have too little sauce, add a bit of the water
in which you have soaked the mushrooms. Add the sesame oil and stir.
Place the fried noodles on a large platter and pour the meat and
vegetable mixture over the noodles. Do this carefully so that the
little pieces of pork and mushrooms will cling to the "branches".
Toss at the table in front of your guests. Each person then takes a
bit of noodle and meat sauce and places it in the center of a lettuce
leaf. Roll it up like a burrito and enjoy. Serves 6-8 as part of a
Chinese meal Source: The Frugal Gourmet Cooks With Wine From The
Cookie Lady's Files

Submitted By   CHEF BRUCE HANNA

