Title: APPLE & ALMOND MACAROON PUDDING
Categories: Desserts
Yield: 1 Recipes
6 tb Sweet butter
3 tb All-purpose flour
1 c  Milk
3/4 c  Sugar
3 lg Egg yolks
1 1/2 ts Vanilla extract or
-cognac vanilla *
1    Or 2 Tb Calvados
-(apple liquor)
4 lg Tart apples, peeled, cored
-and thinly sliced
5 lg Egg whites
1 pn Salt
4    Almond macaroons, dried
-and crumbled
MMMMM-----------------------VANILLA SAUCE----------------------------
1/2 c  Sugar
1 1/2 tb Cornstarch
1 pn Salt
1    Sliver of lemon peel
1 c  Water
3 tb Butter
1 ts Vanilla extract or
-cognac vanilla *
* To make cognac vanilla, get a fresh, fresh vanilla bean, cut
lengthwise and then crosswise exposing the tiny tiny seeds. Put into
an airtight container and pour on 2.5 oz. cognac or brandy per bean.
Every 2 or 3 days, shake the bottle. After about 2 or 3 weeks, you'll
have a new taste sensation in vanilla flavoring.

Preheat oven to 375 F

Melt 3 T of the butter in a heavy saucepan.  Add flour and blend in
well until smooth.  Slowly add the milk, stirring constantly with a
whisk, over medium heat; cook until the mixture thickens, about 1
minute. Add 1/2 C sugar and beat hard.  Add the egg yolks, blending
them in well. Remove the pan from the heat and add the vanilla, the
Calvados or brandy. Set aside, but keep it warm.

Melt the reaming butter in a skillet.  Add the apples, sprinkled with
the remaining sugar and gently sauté until tender, about 7 or 8
minutes.Beat the egg whites with the salt until they hold stiff
peaks. Fold a small amount into the egg yolk mixture just to lighten
it up a little, then fold in the rest of the whites. Place half the
apples in a buttered shallow 1.5 quart baking dish. Cover the apples
with half the egg mixture. Add the remaining apples and sprinkle with
the macaroon crumbs. Cover the apples and macaroon with the remaining
egg mixture, filing the dish almost to the rim.Bake until the top is
golden brown and the pudding is fairly firm, 25 to 30 minutes.  Serve
at once with Vanilla Sauce.

Vanilla Sauce:

Combine the sugar and cornstarch in a saucepan and mix well. Add the
salt, lemon peel and water.  Bring to a boil and cook over
medium-high heat until the sauce is clear, 5 to 7 minutes. Discard
the lemon peel and add the butter.  Remove the pan from the heat and
stir in the vanilla. If you want it creamier, add 1 or 2 T heavy
whipping cream. Submitted By RHOMMEL@GNN.COM (RICHARD HOMMEL) On TUE,
31 OCT 1995 113813

