Title: APPLE CAKE (STEAMED)
Categories: Steamed foo, Dessert
Yield: 6 Servings
Cake Mix
1 1/3 c  -all-purpose flour --
Sifted
1 1/2 ts -baking powder
1/2 ts -salt
1/4 c  -granulated sugar
1/4 c  -shortening
1    Egg equivalent using
Scrambled egg mix
1 tb Powdered milk
Apple Mix
4 c  Tart apples; sliced, pared
And cored
1 tb Lemon juice and finely
Shredded peel
Cinnamon mix
1/2 ts -cinnamon
1/4 ts -nutmeg
2 tb -granulated sugar
1/2 c  Apricot jam
2 tb Margarine -- small pieces
1/2 c  Water
Apple Cake: 1-3 hours steaming at the edge of the fire. Tools: Large
pot for steaming with a lid or alumimum foil to cover; 2-3 quart pot
with lid or heavy duty foil to seal top - that fits inside the large
pot (nestled pot kit workswell). Prepare in advance: Mix together the
flour, dried egg mix, dried milk powder, baking powder, salt, and 1
tablespoon granulated sugar. With two knives, cut the shortening into
theflour until mixture is mealy.  Store in a zip lock bag, Peel the
apples and slice them. Put them in a zip lock bag with 1 tablespoon
of lemon juice and any finely chopped lemon peel that is available.
Apple mixture may be frozen. Mix the cinnamon, nutmeg, and t
tablespoons of sugar and stone in a small ziplock bag. At the camp
site: Make a well in the center of the flour mixture in the bag and
add the water. Stir the mixture to form smooth batter, turn into
greased smaller pot. Arrange the apples in rows on top, pushing them
halfway into the dough. Sprinkle over the apples and dot with apricot
jam. Cut small pieces of butter over all. Cover the cake pot with lid
or heavy duty foil.  Put the smaller pot inside the larger one and
fill along the sides with hot water until the water is about 2/3 or
3/4 of the way up the sides of the cake pot. Place the lid on the
large pot and place it on the edge of the fire so the water simmers
and just boils. Check from time to time and add more water as it
boils down. As longas the water does not boil dry, this cannot be
overcooked.

: Adapted for Troop 21 Southeast Alaska Council, Boy
Recipe By
Scouts

