Title: An Autumn Potato Salad
Categories: Salads, Potatoes
Yield: 4 servings
1/2 ts Freshly ground black pepper
1 ts Minced garlic
4 tb Wine vinegar
1 1/2 c  Coarsely chopped celery
-(about 3 medium stalks)
1/3 c  Mildly hot peppers packed in
-brine
3 tb Liquid from above peppers
1/2 c  Parsley; finely chopped
2 1/2 lb Medium-sized boiling
-potatoes
3 oz Pancetta (Italian bacon)
1 tb Plus 1/3 cup olive oil
1/2 c  Julienne strips of bell or
-roasted peppers
1 ts Crumbled dried or fresh
-rosemary
1 ts Dry mustard
Scrub the potatoes.  Steam them for 20 to 30 minutes just until
they are tender.
Cut the pancetta into 1/4-inch dice.  Heat the tablespoon of olive
oil in a 10-inch skillet over low heat.  Add the pancetta and saute
until it is rendered of its fat and the dice have browned.  This will
take about 15 minutes.  Stir several times so that the dice brown
evenly. Do not drain.
Cut the bell or roasted peppers into 1-1/2" by 1/4" julienne
strips. When the pancetta has browned, add the peppers to the
skillet. Sprinkle with the rosemary.  Toss and increase the heat to
medium.
Saute, uncovered, for 10 minutes, tossing several times with wooden
spoons.  The peppers should absorb most of the liquid in the skillet.
Set aside.
While the potatoes are steaming and the pancetta and peppers are
sauteing, prepare the salad dressing.  In a small bowl, combine the
dry mustard, black pepper, and garlic.  Whisk in the wine vinegar.
In a slow, steady stream, whisk in the remaining 1/3 cup of olive
oil. Whisk until the dressing is smooth and thick.  Set aside.
When the potatoes are tender, remove them from the heat and drain.
As soon as you are able to handle them, remove the skins.  Place the
peeled potatoes in a shallow dish.  Let them cool slightly before
cutting them into 1-1/2" chunks.
Add the pancetta, sauteed peppers, and any liquid remaining in the
skillet to the potatoes.  Toss to mix and pour on the dressing.  Toss
again.  Add the celery, peppers (seeding is optional), pepper liquid,
and parsley.  Toss, and serve at room temperature.

_The Country Gourmet Cookbook_   Sherrill & Gil Roth, 1981 Workman
Typos by Jeff Pruett
Publishing   ISBN 0-89480-188-0
Submitted By JEFF PRUETT   On   09-24-95

