Title: ARTICHOKES MONTEREY - Country Living
Categories: Country liv, Vegetables, Side dish
Yield: 4 servings
1 tb Fresh thyme leaves
1/2 c  Reduced-calorie mayonnaise
1/4 ts Ground black pepper
1/8 ts Salt
1 sm Ripe plum tomato
4 md (9 to 10 oz each) artichokes
1    6-oz jar marinated
-artichoke hearts (see Note)
1 ts Butter or margarine
3 tb Chopped onion
1. ln 4-quart saucepan, heat 2 inches water to boiling over high heat.
Meanwhile, cut stems off artichokes so the artichokes will stand
upright. Discard the lowest row of leaves. Lay the artichokes on
their sides and cut off 1/4 inch from the top of each. With scissors,
snip off the tips of each leaf.

2. Drain the marinade from the artichoke hearts into the pan of
boiling water. Set aside the marinated artichoke hearts. Arrange
trimmed fresh artichokes upright in the pan of boiling water with the
marinade. (They should fit snugly.) Cover pan and reduce heat to low.
Cook artichokes 30 to 35 minutes or until a central leaf comes out
easily from the artichoke when it is pulled gently.

3. While artichokes are cooking, prepare dip: In small sauce-pan, melt
butter over medium heat. Add chopped onion and thyme; saute onion
until tender-about 3 minutes. Transfer onion to food processor fitted
with chopping blade. Pick over drained marinated artichoke hearts to
remove the chokes and any tough or hard outer leaves.

4. Add artichoke hearts to the onion and process until finely
chopped. Add mayonnaise, pepper, and salt process until pureed. Cover
and refrigerate dip until ready to serve.

5. With slotted spoon, remove artichokes front boiling water and set
them upside down on a plate to cool to room temperature. Squeeze each
one gently upside down to remove all water. One artichoke at a time,
open the center cone of leaves and gently pull out the soft inner
pale-green leaves to reveal the thistle, or choke, attached to the
artichoke bottom, or heart. (The bottoms of these leaves are edible
so reserve to serve with dip.) With a spoon, form a cavity to hold
the dip by scraping and removing the choke from the heart.

6. Just before serving, cut plum tomato lengthwise in half. Scoop out
and discard pulp and seeds. Cut tomato halves crosswise into thin
slices.

7. To serve, arrange artichokes on serving platter. Spoon dip into the
artichoke cavities and garnish with tomato slices. To eat an
artichoke, pull off an outer leaf, then scoop dip onto the base of
the leaf and pull through your teeth to remove the soft, thick
portion of the leaf. The entire heart of the artichoke is edible.

Note: California-grown marinated artichoke hearts are best for making
the dip. Imported marinated hearts are very firm and often possess
many tough outer leaves.

Nutritional intonnation per serving protein: 4 grams; fat: 10 graiii@
carbohydrate, 19 grams; fiber: 13 grams; sodium: 533 milligranis@
cholesterol: 13 milligrams calories: 208.

Country Living/April/93 Scanned & fixed by DP & GG

