Title: Basic Shallow-Blanched Greens with Variations Part 2
Categories: Vegetables
Yield: 4 servings
MMMMM----------------INGREDIENTS WITH EACH RECIPE---------------------
Penne With Quick Cooked Greens and Prosciutto

This pasta dish is equally good if made with quick cooked greens with
black olives and lemon zest increasing the chicken broth form one
third to two thirds cup

1 recipe quick cooked greens with Prosciutto, increasing Prociutto
from 1 to 2 oz and chicken stock from 1/3 to 2/3 cup 1 tb. salt 12
oz. dried penne or rigatoni 1/4 cup grated Parmesan cheese

Prepare Quick cooked greens with prosciutto. Meanwhile, in large soup
kettle bring 1 gallon water to the boil. Add salt and pasta; cook
till al dente, 9 to 10 minutes. Drain pasta, then return to soup
kettle; add greens and toss. Transfer portion of pasta to each of 4
pasta bowls; pass Parmesan cheese seperately.

Quick Cooked Greens with Bacon and Black Eyed Peas  Serves: 4 Main
Course

1 recipe quick cooked greens with bacon and onion
increasing bacon to 4 slices 1 recipe cooked dry beans (see below)
using black eyed peas and
reserving 1 cup liquid from beans

Prepare quick cooked greens with bacon and onion. Just before adding
vinegar and bacon, stir in black eyed peas and 1 cup reserved cooking
liquid. Bring to a simmer; cover and cook to blend flavors, about 5
minutes. Adjust seasonings. Ladle portion of beans and greens into
each of 4 soup plates; dress each with portion of vinegar and bacon
bits.

Quick Cooked Greens with White Beans and Rosemary Serves: 4 Main
Course

If you're short on time, you can substitute 2 cans (19 oz. total)
drained and rinsed cannelini beans and 1 cup chicken stock for the
cooked dried beans and cooking liquid called for in the recipe

1 recipe quick cooked greens with garlic and red pepper flakes 1
teaspoon fresh rosemary, minced 1 recipe cooked dried beans using
great northern beans
and reserving 1 cup cooking liquid from beans grated Parmesan cheese
(optional)

Prepare quick cooked greens with garlic and red pepper flakes, adding
rosemary with garlic and red pepper flakes. sTir in beans and add one
cup of reserved cooking liquid. Bring to a simmer; cover and simmer
to blend flavors, about 5 minutes. Adjsut seasonings. Ladle out a
portion of beans and greens  into each of 4 soup plates; pass
Parmesan seperately.

cooked dried beans makes 3 cups drained beans

1/2 lb. dried black-eyed peas or large white beans (such as great
northern beans; soaked until rehydrated, overnight or at least 4
hours. 1 bay leaf 4 whole garlic cloves 1 1/2 ts. salt

Bring peas or beans, bay leaf, garlic and 7 cups water to a simmer in
large saucepan. Simmer, partly covered, until beans are just tender,
30 to 40 minutes. Remove from the heat, stir in the salt, cover and
let beans stand until comepletely tender, about 15 minutes. Drain,
reserve cooking liquid, and discard bay leaf and garlic. (Beans in
liquid can be cooled, covered, and refrigerated up to 5 days.)

Source: Jan/Feb issue of Cook's magazine
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   09-11-95

