Title: Basic Shallow Blanched Greens and Variations Part 1
Categories: Vegetables
Yield: 4 servings
-washed in 2/3 changes water
-coarsely chopped
2 qt Boiling water
1 1/2 ts Salt
2 lb Greens (assertive) i.e. kale
-collards, mustard, or
-turnip greens; stemmed,
Bring 2-qts. water to  boil in soup kettle or large deep saute pan.
Add salt and greens; stir until wilted. Cover and cook until greens
are just tender, about 7 minutes; drain in colander. Rinse kettle or
pan with cold water to cool, then refill with cold water. Pour greens
into cold water to stop cooking process. Gather handfuls of greens,
lift out of the water, and squeeze until only droplets fall from
them. Repeat with the remaining greens. Roughly cut each bunch of
greens. Proceed with one of the following recipes.

Quick cooked greens with garlic and red pepper flakes. serves: 4

2 large garlic cloves, thinly sliced 1/4 ts. red pepper flakes 3 tb.
vegetable oil 2 cups basic shallow blanched greens (see above) 1/3 to
1/2 cup chicken stock or low-sodium chicken broth

In a large saute pan, heat garlic and pepper flakes with oil over
medium heat until garlic starts to sizzle. Add greens; saute to coat
with oil. Add 1/3 cup chicken stock; cover and cook over medium high
heat, adding more stock during cooking if necessary, until greens are
tender and juicy and most of the stock has been absorbed, about 5
minutes. Serve.

Serves: 4
Quick Cooked Greens with Prosciutto

Follow recipe for quick cooked greens with garlic and red pepper
flakes (see above), but after garlic starts to sizzle stir in 1 oz.
of thinly sliced prosciutto cut crosswise into thin strips. Add
greens and continue with the recipe, stirring 1/4 ts. of minced lemon
zest into greens, just before serving.

Quick Cooked Greens with Red Bell Pepper   Serves: 4

Follow recipe for quick cooked greens with garlic and red pepper
flakes (see above), but heat the oil and saute 1/2 thinly sliced red
bell pepper, until softened, about 4 minutes. Then add the garlic and
hot red pepper flakes, and continue with the recipe.

Quick Cooked Greens with Black Olives and Lemon Zest    Serves: 4

Follow recipe for quick cooked greens with garlic and red pepper
flakes (see above), but after the garlic starts to sizzle stir in 1/3
cup pitted, coarse chopped black olives (oil-cured or brine soaked).
Add greens and continue with recipe, stirring in 1/4 ts. of minced
lemon zest just before serving.

Quick Cooked Greens with Bacon and Onion    Serves: 4

2 bacon slices (about 2 oz.) cut crosswise into thin strips vegetable
oil 1/2 medium onion, chopped fine 2 garlic cloves, minced 2 cups
basic shallow blanched greens (see above) chopped medium 1/3 to 1/2
cup chicken stock or low-sodium chicken broth 2 teaspoons cider
vinegar salt

1. Fry bacon in a large saute pan over medium-low heat until crisp,
about 4 to 5 minutes. Remove bacon wiht slotted spoon and set aside.
If necessary, add oil to bacon drippings to bring it up to 2
tablespoons full. Add onion and garlic; saute until softened, about 4
to 5 minutes.

2. Add greens; saute, stirring, to coat with oil. Add stock; cover
and cook over medium-hish heat until greens are tender and most of
the stock has been absorbed, about 5 minutes. Sprinkle greens with
vinegar and bacon bits; season with salt if necessary. serve.

you could serve any of these greens recipes over polenta

Source: Cook's Magazine the Jan/Feb issue of 1995
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   09-11-95

