Title: BEEF AND EGGPLANT SALAD WITH PESTO DRESSING - Bon Appetit
Categories: Bon appetit, Salads, Main dish, Dress/stuff
Yield: 4 servings
Salt
1 c  Olive oil
3/4 c  Pine nuts
MMMMM-----------------------EGGPLANT SALAD----------------------------
-(garbanzo beans), very
-coarsely chopped
1 sm Onion, chopped
2 oz Salami, cut into 1/4-inch
-dice
2    Garlic cloves, finely
-chopped
1    3/4-lb eggplant, cut into
-1/2-inch cubes
1/2 tb Garlic salt
Freshly ground pepper
6    Plum tomatoes, cut into 1/2
-inch dice
2/3 c  Drained canned chick-peas
MMMMM-----------------------PESTO DRESSING----------------------------
-julienne
1 lg Bunch arugula or 1/2 bunch
-basil leaves, cut julienne
2 sm Plum tomatoes, halved,
-cut lengthwise into fans
4    Fresh basil sprigs
2    Bunches fresh basil
2 md Garlic cloves
Salt & freshly ground pepper
1 1/4 lb Flank steak, trimmed
2 tb (or more) white wine vinegar
1    Jumbo egg yolk
4 oz Spinach, stemmed, cut
Heat oil in heavy small saucepan over medium heat. Add 1/4 C pine
nuts and cook until deep golden brown, about 1 1/2 minutes. Transfer
nuts to paper towels using slotted spoon and drain. Season with salt.
Cool pine nut oil completely.

For salad; Arrange eggplant on paper towel-lined baking sheet.
Sprinkle with garlic salt. Let stand 30 minutes.

Heat 3 T pine nut oil in heavy large skillet over medium-high heat.
Add eggplant and toss to coat with oil. Season with pepper. Cook
until eggplant is very soft, stirring frequently, about 20 minutes.
Transfer eggplant to bowl, scraping up any browned bits. Cool
completely. Mix in diced tomatoes, chick-peas, onion, salami and
chopped garlic.

For dressing: Puree 2 basil bunches and 2 garlic cloves with
remaining 1/2 C pine nuts in blender. Set aside 1 T pine nut oil for
steak. With machine running, gradually add remaining pine nut oil to
blender and puree pesto. Add salt and pepper.

Rub steak with 3 T pesto. Season with salt and pepper. Add 2
tablespoons vinegar and egg yolk to pesto in blender and process
until thickened. Pour 3 T dressing over eggplant salad; toss to coat.
Cover steak, salad and remaining dressing separately and refrigerate
overnight.

Heat reserved 1 T pine nut oil in heavy large skillet over medium
heat. Add steak and cook about 3 minutes per side for medium-rare.
Transfer to plate. Cover and refrigerate until cold. (Can be prepared
1 day ahead.)

Cut steak on sharp diagonal into paper-thin slices. Toss spinach with
arugula. Taste eggplant salad, adding more vinegar, salt and/or
pepper if desired. Divide eggplant salad among 4 plates, mounding in
center. Spoon 1 T dressing around each vegetable mound. Top each
salad with 1/4 of spinach-arugula julienne. Drape steak slices over
salad in pinwheel fashion. Spoon 1 T dressing over meat on each
plate. Sprinkle fried pine nuts over. Garnish with tomato and basil.

Bon Appetit/August/89  Scanned & fixed by Di and Gary

