Title: Blini With Caviar - Country Living
Categories: Appetizers, Country liv
Yield: 60 blini
1/2 c  Finely chopped walnuts
3 tb Unsifted buckwheat flour
1 tb Water
Vegetable oil for frying
3 c  Sour cream
2 oz Black caviar
1 oz Red caviar
1 oz Golden caviar
1 pk Active dry yeast
1/2 c  Warm water
3    Large eggs
1 c  Milk, scalded & cooled
1 1/2 c  Unsift all purpose flour
6 tb Butter, melted
1/2 ts Salt
1/4 ts Sugar
In medium-size bowl, combine yeast and warm water.  Let stand 15
minutes or until surface is bubbly.

Separate eggs, place whites in small bowl and set aside.  With wire
whisk, stir milk and egg yoks into yeast mixture until well combined.
Stir in flour, butter salt and sugar; beat until smooth.  Cover bowl
with clean cloth; let rise in warm place until very bubbly - 1 1/2 to
2 hours.

With electric mixer at high speed, beat reserved egg whites until
stiff peaks form.  Fold beaten egg whites into batter.  Divide batter
amond three small bowls.  Set aside one bowl.  Gently fold walnuts
into mixture in one of the remaing bowls.  Fold buckwheat flour and
water into mixture in the other remaining bowl.

To make blini, heat oven to 200F.  Heat large nonstick skillet over
medium heat.  Add about 1/2 tablespoon oil.  Spoon 1 tablespoon plain
batter into skillet to form 2-inch round; continue to spoon batter by
tablespoons into the skillet. Cook blini 1 1/2 to 2 minutes or until
small bubbles begin to form on top.  With pancake turner, turn blini
over and cook 1 1/2 to 2 minutes longer, or until cooked through.
Transfer to baking sheet or ovenproof serving platter and keep warm
in oven until ready to serve. Repeat with remaining batter, adding
more il to skillet as necessary.

Divide sour cream and caviar onto blini, using about 1 scant measuring
tablespoon sour cream and a scant 1/2 teaspoon caviar on each.

NOTE: Caviars are available at your local supermarket or specialty
food shop or by mail order from Caviarteria.  To order call (800)
422-8427.

Country Living/Jan/93    Typed by Didi Pahl

