Title: Breads and Cereals
Categories: Breads, Nuts/grains, Information
Yield: 1 servings
No Ingredients Found
EAT MORE BREADS AND CEREALS - A national survery revealed that about
12 cents of every food dollar goes into flour, cereals and bakery
products. But these same products provide 20 percent or more of
thiamin, iron, riboflavin, calcium, and protein in the national diet.
Given these numbers and the fact that most breads and cereals are
relatively cheap, it makes sense to add more bread and cereal into
your diets.

ENRICHED BREADS ARE BETTER - Whole grain or enriched products are much
more nutritious than unenriched products.  At comparable prices,
enriched bread provides three to four times as much thiamin, niacin,
riboflavin, and iron as unenriched bread.

DOMESTIC BREADS ARE CHEAPER - Specialty enriched breads such as rench
and italian typically cost much more than enriches white bread with
similar nutritional value.

BIGGER DOESN'T MEAN BETTER - A large loaf of bread does not always
weigh more or contain more food value than a small loaf.  compare
prices of equal weights of bread to determine the better buy.

REGULAR RICE RATES LOWER - Converted, precooked, or instant rice
usually costs much more than regular rice. Seasoned rice mixes are
much more expensive than regular rice you season at home.

BEWARE HIGH POWERED CEREALS - Cereals may have nutrients added
unnecessarily.  Many cereals are fortified to provide between 25 and
100 percent of the U.S. Recommended Daily Allowance of some vitamins
and minerals.  Cereals with 100 percent are often more expensive.  If
you are coming reasonably close to following a good diet pattern,
these highly fortified cereals may be an unnecessary expense.

CEREAL SELECTION - Instant hot cereals in individual packages and
ready-to-serve cereals are almost always moe expensive than cereals
you cook yourself from large cereal boxes.

HOT CEREALS - Prepare hot cereals for breakfast. They're more filling
an dless expensive than cold cereals.

DAY OLD ITEMS - Ask or watch for day old bread and baked goods in
stores and bakeries. YOu can save a lot of money by taking the
store's leftovers.

PIZZA COMBINATIONS - Have some fun with different types of bread by
making your own pizza from just about anything.  Cheddar, Swiss, or
Monterey Jack can be used instead of mozzarella.  use peppers,
olives, onions, spices, mushrooms, or canned tomatoes to spice up the
dish.

Origin: Household Hints + Formulas, by Erik Bruun. Shared by: Sharon
Stevens, Aug/95.

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   09-20-95

