Title: Buying Fish
Categories: Information, Fish/seafoo
Yield: 1 servings
Text only
Buying Canned Fish

Several varieties of fish can be purchased in canned form. Among the
popular species are anchovies, cod, haddock, mackerel, salmon,
sardines, and tuna.  An American favorite is tuna.

Tuna is packed in various sizes and forms.  It may come as a solid
pack, in chunks, grated, or flaked.  You may also select tuna packed
in vegetable oil or water.

When buying canned fish always check the label to be certain no
noxious chemicals have been added.

Buying Fresh Fish

The form of fish is only one consideration in purchasing fresh fish.
When buying a whole, drawn, or dressed fish look for a fresh, mild
odor and firm springy flesh. You can check the firmness of the flesh
by pressing your finger on it.  The flesh should not separate from
the bone. Also, the skin should be iridescent and smooth. Another tip
in buying a whole fish is to examine its eyes. They should be bright,
clear and bulging. The gills should be intact, red, and free from
residue. All fresh fish should be displayed and packaged on ice.

When purchasing fresh fillets, steaks, or portions, the first thing to
check is odor.  It should be fresh and mild. Also, check the flesh. It
should be freshly cut without traces of browning or drying around the
edges.

Buying Frozen Fish

Freezing presents special problems to the astute fish buyer. Freezing
masks the signs of freshness, making it difficult to tell the age of
the fish under consideration. There are many signs that indicate good
quality however. First, the flesh should be solidly frozen, and there
should be no signs of discoloration.  Be sure to look for freezer
burn, which is indicated by a white dry appearance around the edges
of the flesh, or by ice crystals.  Freezer burn indicates that
moisture has been lost, possibly as a result of thawing or
refreezing. In addition, the fish should be wrapped in moisture-proof
material with little or no air-space between the fish and wrapping.
There should be no odor. Once a fish is frozen do not refreeze.

About the Author

Adam Starchild has combined business travel with discovering the
delights of native dishes from Hawaii and Hong Kong to Russia and the
Caribbean.  He is the author of The Seafood Heritage Cookbook (Cornell
Maritime Press), co-author of another seafood cookbook, and the
author of a number of food and cooking articles.
Submitted By BARRY WEINSTEIN   On   08-30-95

