Title: Chicken, Basil, and Sun-Dried Tomato Terrine
Categories: Main dish, Casseroles, Country liv, Poultry
Yield: 12 servings
1/4 c  Thawed, frozen chopped
-spinach
1/4 c  Chopped fresh parsley leaves
1    4-oz jar pimiento, drained
1/2 c  Chopped oil-packed,
-sun-dried tomatoes
2 oz Goat cheese or cream cheese
Boiling water
Sliced natural almonds
- (about 1/2 C)
Fresh basil leaves (opt.)
2 3/4 lb Boned and skinned chicken
-breasts, cut into 1/2-inch
-cubes
1/2 c  Brandy
1 tb Olive oil
2    Cloves garlic, chopped
1 ts Salt
1/2 ts Ground white pepper
1 3/4 c  Heavy cream
3    Large egg whites
1/2 c  Chopped fresh basil leaves
1. A day ahead, prepare terrine. In large bowl, combine chicken,
brandy, oil, garlic, 3/4 t salt, and the pepper.

2. Heat oven to 350'F. Line a 9-by 5-inch loaf pan with aluminum foil;
grease foil.

3. Reserve 1/4 lb chicken-cube mixture. In food processor, with
chopping blade, process half of remaining chicken mixture and its
liquid, 1 C cream, and 1 egg white until smooth. Remove mixture to
medium-size bowl. In same container of food processor, with chopping
blade, process remaining half of chicken mixture, the remaining 3/4 C
cream, and 2 egg whites until smooth; with spoon, beat this mixture
into other processed chicken mixture.

4. In same container of food processor, with chopping blade, process
basil, spinach, parsley, and 1/8 t salt until finely chopped; add one
third of processed chicken mixture and process until well combined.
Spread basil-chicken mixture evenly into bottom of prepared loaf pan.

5. In clean container of food processor, with chopping blade, process
pimiento and half of remaining processed chicken mixture until
smooth. Fold in sun-dried tomatoes, Spread pimiento-chicken mixture
evenly over basil-chicken mixture in loaf pan.

6. Break goat cheese into 1/2-inch pieces. Gently fold reserved
chicken- cube mixture, the goat-cheese pieces, and remaining 1/8 t
salt into re- maining processed chicken mixture. Spread
goat-cheese-chicken mixture evenly over pimiento-chicken mixture in
loaf pan.

7. Place a piece of aluminum foil over top of loaf pan to cover
terrine. Place loaf pan in a roasting pan. Add enough boiling water
into roasting pan to come half way up sides of loaf pan. Bake terrine
60 to 65 minutes or until center feels firm when gently pressed and
meat thermometer, inserted in center of terrine, registers 165'F.
Remove loaf pan from roasting pan.

8. Cut piece of heavy-duty cardboard to 9-by 5-inch rectangle. Place
on top of aluminum foil covering terrine. Weigh cardboard down with
unopened fruit or vegetable cans. Refrigerate terrine until well
chilled.

9. When terrine is well chilled, remove cans, cardboard, and foil
cover. Invert terrine onto serving platter. Arrange sliced almonds,
overlapping slightly, on top of teriine. Tuck fresh basil leaves
under edges of terrine, if desired. Slice crosswise to serve.

Country Living/June/90 Scanned & fixed by DP & GG

