Title: CHICKEN-AND-HERB LOAF - Country Living
Categories: Country liv, Meats, Main dish, Poultry
Yield: 6 servings
2    Cloves garlic, finely
-chopped
2 tb Butter
1/4 c  Milk
1/2 lb Assorted wild mushrooms
(we used shiitake, Cremini,
-and oyster mushrooms)
Fresh herb sprigs for
-garnish (we used thyme
-and rosemary)
3 lg (1 1/2 lb) baking potatoes,
-peeled and quartered
1 lg Egg
4    Slices whole-wheat bread
1 lb Ground chicken
1 ts Salt
1/2 ts Ground black pepper
1 pk (10-oz) fresh mushrooms
1/2 c  Packed fresh parsley leaves
1/4 c  Sliced green onions
1. In 2-quart saucepan, heat potatos and enough water to cover by 1
inch to boiling over high heat. Reduce heat to low, cover, and cook
15 to 20 minutes.

2. Meanwhile, heat oven to 350'F. Lightly grease the center of a
12-inch ovenproof platter (see Note).

3. Separate egg; reserve yolk for use in step 6. In food processor
fitted with chopping blade or with hand-held grater, process or grate
2 slices whole-wheat bread into crumbs. In large bowl, mix together
bread crumbs, ground chicken, egg white, 1/2 t salt, and the pepper
until well combined.

4. In food processor fitted with chopping blade, process remaining 2
slices bread, 1/2 C of the smallest regular mushrooms, the parsley,
and green onions until finely chopped.

5. On a piece of waxed paper, pat out chicken mixture to an 8-inch
square. Pat mushroom mixture into an even layer on top of chicken
mixture. Roll up the mixtures jelly-roll fashion. Using waxed paper
for support, lift rolled loaf onto greased platter. Pull waxed paper
out from underneath loaf. Bake 20 minutes.

6. Meanwhile, finish making mashed potatoes. In small saucepan, saute
garlic in 1 T butter over medium-low heat until lightly browned.
Remove from heat and stir in milk, When potatoes are tender, drain
off and discard water. In same saucepan, with hand-held electric
mixer, beat potatoes until well broken up. Beat in remaining 1/2 t
salt, half of the milk mixture, and the egg yolk. Gradually beat in
remaining milk mixture until potatoes are fluffy. They won't be
completely smooth because of the garlic.

7. Remove loaf from oven; frost with mashed potatoes. Return to oven
and bake 25 to 30 minutes longer or until golden brown.

8. Meanwhile, in large skillet, melt remaining butter. Add remaining
regular mushrooms and the wild mushrooms and saute until just tender.
Arrange mushrooms around loaf and garnish with herb sprigs.

Note: If you don't have an ovenproof platter, prepare loaf on a
well-greased piece of heavy-duty aluminum foil. When finished baking,
carefully lift onto serving platter, still on foil, then loosen edges
and slide foil out from under loaf.

Nutritional information per serving-protein: 19 grams fat: 13 grams@
carbohydrate: 40 grams, fiber: 5 grams; sodium: 599 milligrams;
cholesterol: 109 niilligrams calories,. 345.

Country Living/June/93  Scanned & fixed by DP & GG

