Title: CHICKEN-PINWHEEL SALAD - GH_9407
Categories: Salads, Good housek
Yield: 4 servings
1 lg Bunch basil
Salt
3 tb Red wine viInegar
1/4 ts Sugar
1/4 ts Coarsely ground black pepper
2 sm Tomatoes
4 lg Lettuce leaves
Olive or salad oil
1 sm Onion, minced
4 lg Skinless, boneless chicken
-breast halves (~ 1 1/2 lb)
12    Oil-packed dried tomatoes
-without salt
6 md Red potatoes (about 1/2 lb)
2 sm ZucchINI (about 6oz ea)
ABOUT 1 1/2 HOURS BEFORE SERVING OR EARLY IN DAY:

1. In 1-quart saucepan over medium heat, in 2 t  hot olive or salad
oil, cook onion until lightly browned. Stir in 1 T  water and
continue cooking until onion is very tender.

2. Meanwhile, with meat mallet or dull edge of French knife, pound
chicken-breast halves to 1/4" thickness. Finely chop dried tomatoes,
Sliced unpeeled potatoes and zucchINI 1/4" thick. Chop enough basil
to measure 1 tablespoon; reserve remaining basil.

3. Stir all but 1 T chopped dried tomatoes into onion in saucepan.
Use 1/2 t salt to sprinkle on both sides of chicken breast halves.
With breast halves boned-side up, spread with onion mixture, then top
evenly with some whole basil leaves. Roll each breast half jelly-roll
fashion; secure with toothpicks.

4. In nonstick 12" skillet over medium heat, in 1 t hot olive, or
salad oil, cook zucchini slices and 1/4 t salt until zucchini is
tender and lightly browned. Remove zucchini to plate. In same skillet
in 1 more t hot olive or salad oil, cook chicken rolls until lightly
browned all over. Reduce heat to low; cover and cook until chicken
loses its pink color throughout, about 10 minutes total cooking time.
Remove chicken rolls to cutting board; cool slightly until easy to
handle.

5. While chicken is cooking, in 2 qt saucepan over high heat, heat
sliced potatoes and enough water to cover to boiling. Reduce heat to
low; cover and simmer 5 minutes or until potatoes are fork-tender.
Drain potatoes.

6. In cup, with fork, mix red wine vinegar, sugar, coarsely ground
black pepper, chopped basil, 3 tablespoons olive or salad oil, 1
teaspoon salt, and remaining 1 T chopped dried tomatoes. Set salad
dressing aside.

7. Discard toothpicks from chicken rolls and cut rolls into 1/2" thick
slices. Cut tomatoes into wedges. On 4 dinner plates, place sliced
chicken on lettuce leaves. Arrange potatoes, zucchini, and tomatoes
on plates with chicken..If not serving right away, cover and
refrigerate to serve cold later. To serve, drizzle dressing over all.
Garnish with basil sprigs if you like.

Each serving: About 540 calories, 20 fat, 108 Mg cholesterol, 1060 mg
sodium.

Good Housekeeping/July'94/scanned & fixed by DP & GG

