Title: CHOCOLATE TRUFFLE AND PRALINE ICE CREAM BOMBE 01 - Bon Ap
Categories: Bon appetit, Desserts, Chocolate, Ice cream
Yield: 10 servings
MMMMM-----------------HAZELNUT PRALINE ICE CREAM----------------------
1/2    Vanilla bean, split
-lengthwise
12    Egg yolks
1 c  Sugar
1 1/2 c  Chilled whipping cream
3 c  Hazelnuts (about 14 oz)
1/2 c  Sugar
2 tb Water
2 1/4 c  Milk (do not use lowfat or
-nonfat)
1 1/2 c  Half and half
This impressive dessert can be made ahead, then whisked into the oven
for a quick browning just before serving. (Begin the preparations at
least two days before you plan to serve the bombe.) The rich caramel
sauce is a do-ahead, too.

Preheat oven to 350'F. Line 10-cup 9 1/4-inch-diameter bowl with 2
sheets of foil, overlapping sides slightly. Place in freezer. Arrange
nuts on baking sheet and bake until dark brown, about 25 minutes.
Cool; do not husk.

Lightly oil small baking sheet. Cook 1/2 C sugar and water in heavy
small saucepan over low heat, stirring until sugar dissolves.
Increase heat and boil without stirring until syrup turns deep
caramel color. Mix in 1/2 C toasted hazelnuts. Pour onto prepared
sheet. Cool completely. Coarsely chop praline with heavy large knife.

Finely grind remaining 2 1/2 C hazelnuts in processor. Place in heavy
large saucepan. Add milk and bring to simmer. Remove from heat. Cover
and let steep for 30 minutes.

Set large strainer lined with 4 layers of dampened cheesecloth over
heavy medium saucepan. Pour milk mixture through cheesecloth. Gather
up sides of cheesecloth and twist at center. Press and squeeze
cheesecloth, allowing milk to drip through; discard nuts. Mix half
and half into milk. Scrape in seeds from vanilla bean; add pod.

Whisk yolks with 1 C sugar in medium bowl to blend. Bring milk
mixture to simmer. Whisk milk into yolk mixture. Return to saucepan
and stir over medium-low heat until custard thickens and leaves path
on back of spoon when finger is drawn across, about 12 minutes; do
not boil. Strain into bowl. Mix in cream. Refrigerate until cold.

Transfer custard to ice cream maker and process according to
manufactur- ers instructions. Mix in praline. Spoon ice cream into
prepared bowl. Freeze until almost firm but still spreadable. Spread
ice cream evenly up sides of bowl with back of dampened spoon,
forming 4 inch-wide, 2 1/2-inch-deep bowl-shaped hollow center.
Freeze while preparing truffle filling.

Bon Appetit/August/89  Scanned & fixed by Di and Gary

