Title: CHOCOLATE HAZELNUT CRISPS - House Beautiful
Categories: House beaut, Holiday, Cake/cookie, Chocolate
Yield: 4 dozen
MMMMM------------------------COOKIE DOUGH-----------------------------
8 tb (1 stick) cold unsalted
-butter, cut into small
-pieces
4 1/2 oz Bittersweet or semisweet
-chocolate, coarsely chopped
2 ts Vanilla extract
2/3 c  Whole hazelnuts
3/4 c  Confectioners' sugar
1/4 ts Instant coffee powder (use
-only fine granules, not
-crystals)
1/8 ts Salt
1 1/4 c  All-purpose flour
MMMMM---------------------DIPPING CHOCOLATE--------------------------
1 tb Solid shortening (reduce
-to 1 1/2 t if white
-chocolate is used)
8 oz Bittersweet or semisweet
-chocolate or imported white
-chocolate, coarsely chopped
In a shallow baking pan in a preheated 325'F oven, toast hazelnuts 16
to 18 minutes, or until hulls begin to loosen and nuts are slightly
colored and fragrant. Remove from oven and set aside to cool. When
cool enough to handle, remove hulls by vigorously rubbing a handful
at a time between your palms or in a clean dish towel. (Some skin may
remain on hazelnuts, but they should be free of hull.)

In a food processor process hazelnuts, confectioners' sugar, coffee
and salt until nuts are ground to a powder. Add flour and process
until well mixed. Sprinkle butter over the flour mixture and pulse
until mixture resembles fine crumbs.

In the top of a double boiler, melt chocolate until smooth. Let cool,
just until slightly warm. Add cooled chocolate and vanilla to butter
mixture and pulse until ingredients are blended and hold together.

Shape dough into a disk and knead briefly to distribute chocolate
evenly. Divide dough in half and place each portion between sheets of
waxed paper. Using a rolling pin, roll out 1/8 inch thick. Stack on a
baking sheet and chill 10 minutes, or until dough is firm.

Working with 1 dough sheet at a time, carefully peel the bottom sheet
of waxed paper, then replace it loosely. Turn dough over and remove
and discard top sheet of waxed paper. Cut out cookies with a 2
1/2-inch scalloped round cookie cutter. Transfer cookies to greased
baking sheets, spacing about 1 inch apart.

Bake in center of a preheated 325'F oven 8 to 10 minutes, or until
cookies are almost firm to the touch. (They will puff up slightly
during baking, then fall again.) Remove from oven and let stand 1
minute. Transfer cookies to wire racks to cool completely.

Prepare dipping chocolate: In the top of a double boiler, melt
chocolate, stirring until smooth; remove from heat. With the pan
tipped so that the chocolate pools on 1 side, gently dip each cookie
so that the mixture covers only half of the top. Gently scrape the
underside of each cookie against the pan edge to remove any excess
chocolate, then return to wire rack set over waxed paper. (If the
chocolate begins to cool and stiffen as you work, rewarm it
slightly.) Let the cookies stand until the chocolate sets, about 45
minutes.

Store plain crisps in an airtight container or freeze up to 1 month.
Dipped cookies should be refrigerated in an airtight container with
waxed paper between the layers for up to 5 days. (After that,
chocolate on the top will begin to discolor.) Makes about 4 dozen 2
1/4-inch cook- ies.

House Beautiful Holidays 1993 Scanned & fixed by Di & Gary

