Title: Chocolate Tofu Cake
Categories: Cake/cookie
Yield: 12 servings
1/4 c  Pure maple syrup
3 tb Unsweetened cocoa powder
2 lg Egg Whites
1 tb Ground cinnamon
3 tb Light Irish cream liqueur
1 tb Coffee liquer
Light vegetable oil cooking
- spray
8 oz Firm tofu
1/4 c  Ricotta cheese; part skim
- milk
4 oz Light cream cheese
MMMMM----------------------FOR THE TOPPING---------------------------
1 ts Pure vanila extract
1 tb Honey
1/2 c  Nonfat sour cream or
- plain nonfat yogurt
Preheat the oven to 350*.

Coat a 10-inch glass pie plate with 3 sprays of the vegetable oil.

In the bowl of a food processor, combine the tofu, ricotta cheese,
cream cheese, maple syrup, cocoa powder, egg whites, cinnamon, and
the liqueurs. Puree until smooth and pour into the prepared pie plate.

Place the pie plate on the center rack of the oven.  On the bottom
rack, place a baking pan filled halfway with water.  Bake for 1 hour.

While the cake is baking, combine all the topping ingredients in a
small bowl and whisk thoroughly.

When the cake has cooked for an hour, remove it from the oven, spread
teh topping on evenly, decoreate if you wish, and return it to the
oven. Bake for about 10 minutes more, until the topping sets.

Refrigerate for 2 hours before serving.  Decorate with the Chocolate
Sauce Design, if you wish.

See "Making a Chocolate Sauce Design"

Fat per serving = 3.9 grams Calories per serving = 92

My version of chocolate cheesecake provides all of the treat with
none of the guilt.  I've replaced the typical bulk ration of cream
cheese with tofu, using just enough light cream cheese and ricotta
cheese to flavor and add texture.  Unsweetened cocoa powder replaces
baking chocolate, while honey sweetens the mix instead of sugar.  A
thin white topping contrasts dramatically with the deep chocolate hue
of the cake.

For a striking finish, decorate the top with a chocolate sauce design.

Source: "In the Kitchen With Rosie" by Rosie Daley, ISBN 0-679-43404-6
Typed by Debbie Antes From: Debra Antes (Cooking Echo)
Submitted By LINDA SHORT   On   09-01-95

