Title: CHOCOLATE BREAD PUDDING WITH CINNAMON CREME ANGLAISE - CL
Categories: Desserts, Puddings, Chocolate, Country liv
Yield: 6 servings
4 1/4 c  Fresh bread crumbs (12 oz)
Cinnamon Creme Anglaise
-(recipe follows)
2 tb Seedless red raspberry
-preserves (opt.)
Fresh raspberries (opt.)
Fresh mint sprigs (opt.)
8 oz Bittersweet chocolate or 4
-1-oz squares semisweet
-chocolate and 4 1-oz
-squares unsweetened
-chocolate, coarsely chopped
3 c  Half-and-half
1 c  Sugar
2    Large eggs
1. Grease six 3-3/4-inch individual fluted tube pans (see Note) or
8-oz timbale molds. In top of double boiler, over simmering water,
melt chocolate. In 2-quart saucepan, heat half-and-half and 1/2 C
sugar to boiling.

2. In large bowl, with electric mixer, beat eggs and remaining 1/2 C
sugar until thick and lemon-colored. Slowly beat in half-and-half
mixture. Stir in bread crumbs and melted chocolate just until
combined to form pudding batter.

3. Heat oven to 400'F. Fill greased pans with batter. Bake puddings
30 to 40 minutes or until centers spring back when gently pressed
with fingertip. Prepare Cinnamon Creme Anglaise.

4. Cool puddings in pans on wire rack 10 minutes; unmold.

5. To serve, pour some Cinnamon Creme Anglaise onto each of 6 dessert
plates. Place Chocolate Bread Pudding on creme Anglaise. If desired,
make heart design in creme Anglaise: In small saucepan or
microwave-safe C, heat preserves until melted. Fill pastry bag,
fitted with small round writing tip, with melted raspberry preserves.
Pipe 6 pairs of preserve dots radiating from pudding. To make hearts,
with the tip of a toothpick, pull a line through each drop of
preserves starting from the side closest to the pudding. Garnish with
raspberries and mint, if desired.

Cinnamon Crime Anglaise: In 2-quart saucepan, heat 2 C  half-and-half
to boiling. In large bowl, with wire whisk, beat 4 large egg yolks
and 6 tablespoons sugar. Slowly beat half-and-half into yolk mixture;
add 1 vanilla bean, split, 1 cinnamon stick, and 1/2 teaspoon ground
cinnamon. Pour all back into saucepan and cook, stirring constantly,
over low heat until creme Anglaise coats a spoon. (Do not boil.)
Strain creme Anglaise into bowl and refrigerate until ready to serve.

Note: Individual fluted tube pans (BUNDT-lette cake pans) can be or-
dered by calling Maid of Scandinavia at (800) 328-6722, in Minn.
(800) 851-1121.

CHELSEA CENTRAL

Country Living/Dec/90  Scanned & fixed by DP and GG

