Title: CHOCOLATE-ALMOND CROSTATA - Country Living
Categories: Country liv, Chocolate, Desserts
Yield: 8 servings
-squares, coarsely chopped
1/2 c  Whole natural almonds
2 tb Almond-flavored liqueur
Sweet Pastry (recipe
-follows)
1 1/2 c  Heavy cream
1 pk (8-oz) semisweet chocolate
1. Prepare Sweet Pastry. Divide pastry in half; wrap one half. On
lightly floured surface, roll out remaining half to 11 -inch round.
Fit pastry round into 9-inch fluted tart pan with removable bottom.

2. In saucepan, heat cream just to boiling. In food processor titted
with chopping blade, process chocolate and almonds until finely
chopped. With machine running, pour in hot cream and liqueur. Process
until smooth. Pour into pastry-lined tart pan. Set aside 15 minutes
for filling to cool slightly.

3. Heat oven to 350'F. On lightly floured surface, roll out remaining
half of pastry dough to 10-inch round. With fingertip dipped in
water, moisten pastry in tart pan around the edge. Fold 10-inch
pastry round in half and place over half of filled crostata. Unfold
pastry to cover crostata completely. Pinch pastry together and trim
excess off edge. Place crostata on rimmed baking sheet. With tip of
knife, cut 8 slits in top of crust.

4. Reroll pastry trimmings to a 6- by 3-inch rectangle. Using a 3-inch
leaf-shaped cookie cutter or a paper pattern, cut grape leaves. Score
pastry leaves to resemble grape leav arrange on a piece of aluminum
foil on baking sheet. Tuck crumpled or rolled foil under leaves to
make them curve. Shape remaining pastry into 3/8-inch balls. Lightly
moisten balls with water and arrange on foil with the leaves to
resemble a bunch of grapes, pressing them together until they stick.

5. Bake crostata 45 minutes or until crust is lightly browned and
filling seems set when pan is tapped. Bake pastry grapes 20 to 25
minutes or until golden brown; check occasionally and cover tips of
leaves with foil if they brown too quickly. Cool crostata in pan and
pastry grapes on wire rack to room temperature. Remove side of pan
from crostata. Place crostata on serv- ing plate. Remove foil from
pastry grapes, and place the grapes decoratively on top of crostata.

Sweet Pastry: In large bowl, combine 2 1/4 C  unsifted all-purpose
flour, 1/4 C sugar, 1/4 t baking powder, and 1/4 t salt. With pastry
blender or 2 knives, cut in 1/2 C (1 stick) unsalted butter until
mixture resembles coarse crumbs. Stir in 1 large egg and 1 to 2 T
cold water until dough clings together.

Nutritional information per serving@rotein: 8 grams; fat: 44 grams;
carbohydrate: 54 grams; fiber: 3 grams; sodium: 1 10 milligrams;
cholesterol; 118 milligrams; calories: 627.

Country Living/March/93 Scanned & fixed by DP & GG

