Title: Cookies Plain And Fancy 01 - Country Living
Categories: Cake/cookie, Holiday, Country liv
Yield: 1 info
No ingredient found
1. Garlands: Prepare and cut Gingerbread Dough into 1 1/2-inch
cookies. Wit small metal skewer, make 2 holes, 1/2 inch apart, in
center of each cookie. Bake and cool cookies. Using 1-yard lengths of
thin fabric-covered florist wire, string cookies. For longer strands,
after stringing the cookies, twist ends of strands together.

2. Greeting Cards: Prepare and cut Gingerbread Dough into 7- by 5-inch
rectangles. For jagged edge, use a ruler and fluted pastry wheel. For
the ribboned card, punch holes with a straw about 1/2 inch apart and
1/2 inch from around edge of cookie before baking. Bake and cool
cookies. Prepare and tint Royal Frosting desired colors. For the
appliqued cookie, cut out and bake a separate small cookie from
re-rolled trimmings; "glue" cookie onto card with frosting. Paint or
pipe frosting to decorate cards. For the "stenciled" card, paint
cookie card a base color first; let dry, then paint on one color; let
dry; paint on next color. Pipe on the message.

3. Hearts: Prepare and cut Gingerbread Dough into 3- to 5-inch
hearts. If hearts are to be used for trimming a tree, punch a hole in
cookie dough with a straw before baking. Bake and cool cookies.
Prepare and tint Royal Frosting desired colors; use to decorate baked
cookies.

4. Gift Labels: Prepare and cut Gin- gerbread Dough into 3 3/4- by 2
1/4-inch rectangles. For a scalloped edge, using a 1/2-inch round
cutter, cut out half-rounds around edge of cookie dough rectangles.
Punch 1 or 2 holes in each with a straw so that it can be tied with
ribbon on your gifts. Bake and cool cookies. Prepare and tint Royal
Frosting desired colors; use to pipe onto cookies.

5. Nutcracker and Angel: Prepare and bake Gingerbread Dough for cookie
molds. Prepare and tint Royal Frosting desired colors and thin
frosting with water until it will flow from a brush. When painting
cookies, begin with one color first; allow it to dry before adding
another color. While frosting is still damp, insert seeds, nuts,
dragees, or sprinkles for decorations, if desired. After painted
frosting dries, pipe unthinned frosting lines on cookies.

6. "Tree" Centerpiece: Prepare 2 recipes of Gingerbread Dough. Roll
and cut out 1 2/3 recipe into 3-inch leaf shapes. Roll and cut
remaining 1/3 recipe into 2-inch leaf shapes. Bake and cool cookies.
Prepare and tint some frosting made from meringue powder green and
red. Pipe green around each baked cookie and pipe red frosting
"berries" to decorate each. Let frosting dry. Using large cookies,
make stacks of 6 cookies; arrange about 7 stacks around a 10-to
11-inch round plate. For the second tier, arrange 5 stacks of cookies
between the first stacks. For the next tier, arrange 3 or 4 stacks
between the second tier. For the last tiers, arrange stacks of the
smaller cookies. Decorate the top with a ribbon bow, if desired.
Country Living/Dec/91  Scanned & fixed by DP and GG

