Title: Cooking Seafood in the Microwave - Part 2
Categories: Information, Microwave
Yield: 1 info
No ingredients found
Basic Techniques for Microwaving Seafood

Stirring

Stirring helps small individual shellfish or cubes or fish cook
evenly. Examples: shrimp, scallops, squid rings, oysters, or cubes of
firm fish. Squid tubes are the ultimate convenience food and can be
microwaved in 60 seconds. The tubes can be purchased already cleaned,
ready to slice into rings for almost instant cooking.

Poaching

Poaching hearty fish steaks in an aromatic liquid brings out the
mostly delicate flavors. The fish is added to hot liquid and
microwaved briefly, standing in the liquid afterward for a couple of
minutes.

Steaming

Steaming in parchment creates a mini-steamer, holding in the natural
juices of the foods as they cook. This method retains a maximum of
flavor and moisture of the seafood.

Opening Shellfish

Opening shellfish is fast and easy in the microwave. Cover a plate of
mussels or clams with plastic wrap. Microwave on HIGH for 5 minutes.
Remove those that open; re-cover and continue to microwave the closed
ones for 2-4 minutes. Discard any that do not open; they are probably
dead.

Arranging

Arranging seafood for the most even cooking is necessary for
successful microwaving. Since seafood comes in various shapes, sizes
and thicknesses, particular attention must be paid to placement in
the dish. Fillets that vary in thickness should be arranged so that
their thin ends overlap and the fish form the shape of a wreath.

Microwaving Whole Fish

Microwaving whole fish will ensure  moist and succulent results. Small
pieces of aluminum foil can be used to "shield" head and tail from
overcooking. Put foil completely around, crimping tightly so no foil
sticks out. The meaty part of the fish should not be covered with
foil.

How to Microwave a Whole Lobster

1. Quickly kill the lobster by inserting a large knife at the "X"
mark on the back of the shell - or carapace - just below the head.
This quickly severs the spinal cord.

2. To keep the lobster flat while cooking it, inset a wooden peg,
bamboo skewer or wooden chopstick under the shell from tail to head.

3. Place two (1 to 1 pound) lobsters in a 4-quart pot. Add  cup white
wine.

4. Cover with lid and microwave on HIGH 8-10 minutes, or until the
shells turn red.

Simply Seafood Summer 1995
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   08-23-95

