Title: CRANBERRY ORANGE CAKE - Country Living
Categories: Country liv, Holiday, Cake/cookie, Desserts
Yield: 12 servings
1 1/2 c  Fresh or frozen cranberries,
-chopped
1/2 c  Chopped walnuts
1 c  Confectioners' sugar
Candied Orange Peel and
-Cranberries (recipe
-follows; opt.)
Fresh mint sprigs and gold
-ribbon (opt.)
3    Large navel oranges
3 1/2 c  Unsifted all-purpose flour
1 tb Baking powder
1/2 ts Baking soda
1/2 ts Salt
1 1/4 c  Granulated sugar
1 c  (2 sticks) butter, softened
4    Large eggs
1 ts Vanilla extract
1. Using a grater, finely grate the rind from 1 orange and set aside.
If making Candied Orange Peel, with vegetable peeler, remove orange
part of peel in strips from the remaining 2 oranges. Whether peeled
or not, cut all oranges in half and ream in juicer or squeeze to get
about 1 1/4 C juice. Set juice aside.

2. Heat oven to 350'F. Grease and flour a 10-inch Turk's-head mold or
tube pan. In small bowl, combine flour, baking powder, baking soda,
and salt.

3. In large bowl, with electric mixer on medium speed, beat granulated
sugar and butter until light and fluffy. Add eggs, one at a time,
beating well after each addition. Beat in grated orange rind and
vanilla until combined.

4. Reduce mixer speed to low and alternately beat in flour mixture
and 1 C orange juice (beginning and ending with flour mixture) until
batter is smooth. Fold cranberries and walnuts into batter; spoon
batter into prepared pan.

5. Bake cake 55 to 60 minutes or until cake tester inserted in center
of cake comes out clean. Cool cake in pan on wire rack 10 minutes.
Remove from pan; cool completely on rack.

6. Meanwhile, in small bowl, with electric mixer or spoon, beat
confectioners sugar and 1 T  orange juice until well mixed (icing
should be smooth and just thick enough to drip from a spoon). If
necessary, add more juice, 1 t  at a time, to reach desired
consistency. Prepare Candied Orange Peel and Cranberries, if desired.

7. Transfer cake to serving plate. Spoon icing over top of cake,
allowing it to slowly drip down the side. If desired, top with
candied peel and 5 cranberries; decorate with mint sprigs tied with
gold rib- bon and remaining 2 cranberries.

Candied Orange Peel and Cranberries: Cut reserved orange-peel strips
into 1/8-inch-wide strips. Drop strips into s@all saucepan of boiling
water and blanch 1 minute. Drain strips in strainer. Repeat with
fresh boiling water to blanch orange strips again. Drain and return
strips, plus 7 fresh or frozen cranberries, to sauce-pan. With fork,
stir in 1 T sugar and heat until sugar dissolves and coats peel and
cranberries. Cool to room temperature.

Country Living/Dec/93  Scanned and fixed by DP and GG

