Title: Dairy Products and Meats
Categories: Information, Meats
Yield: 1 servings
No Ingredients Found
CHEAPER MILK - Buy fresh milk at a supermarket or retail dairy store
and not at convenience stores, where it is usually more expensive.
Also, milk sold in larger half gallon and gallon containers is lower
in unit cost than milk sold by the quart or pint.  If you can use
that much milk without waste, you will save money.

NONFAT DRY MILK - Nonfat dry milk has as much calcium, riboflavin, and
protein as whole milk, but has no fat and about half as many calories
as whole milk.  In some areas, nonfat dry milk is also cheaper.  Try
nonfat dry milk in cooking and as a beverage.  Some families mix
equal amunts of fresh whole milk and reconstituted nonfat dry milk
for drinking.

MILK PRESERVATION - Use can use water instead of milk for scrambled
eggs or omelets.  Water makes the eggs fuffy, milk makes them watery.

GRATING CHEESE - Grated cheese cost more than equal amounts of the
same cheese in wedges or sticks.

CHEESE IN BULK - Cheeses in larg boxes and jars and cottage cheese in
large cartons cost less per pound than the same products in smaller
containers.

KEEP IT SIMPLE - Flavored yogurts and cottage cheese cost more than
plain yogurts and cottage cheeses.

ICE CREAM - Ice cream, which costs abut three times more than milk
for the equivalent amount of calcium, also costs more than ice milk.

CHEAPER MEAT DOESN'T MEAN BEST DEAL - Keep in mind that the economy
of a cut of meat depends on the amount of cooked lean meat it
provides as well as its price per pound. Often the cut with a low
price per pound is not the best buy in food value or in servings or
meat provided.  it is the amount of cooked lean meat, or the number
of servings for the price, that matters. If average amounts of waste
are assumed and you count 3 ounces of cooked lean meat as a serving,
you will get the following returns on your meat purchase: * Three to
four servings per pound from items with little or no fat such as
flank steak, grund meat, round steak, lean stew meat, boneless roast
with little fat, liver, a center cut of ham, veal cutlet and fish
steaks and fillets. * Two to three servings per pound from items with
a medium amount of bone, gristly, or fat such as most roasts, some
chops and steaks, ham, poultry, and dressed fish. *One to two
servings per pound from items with much bone, gristly, or fat such as
rib chops of lamb, pork, or veal, plate and breast of lamb or veal,
porterhouse steaks, T-bone steaks, club steaks, spareribs, shanks,
short ribs, and chicken wings and backs.

POULTRY IS A GOOD BUY - One of the least costly main dishes, poultry
is also one of the most popular. The form in which poultry is
purchased often determines whether it is a bargain. A whol chicken,
for example, is usually a better buy than chicken pieces.

SOME FISH ARE BETTER THAN OTHERS - Compared with many cuts of meat,
certain kinds of fish are lower in cost.  Canned tuna is an economical
main dish; light flaked or chunk tuna is less expensive than solid
white tune. Frozen fish fillets are often moderate in cost all year.
Canned sardines, mackerel, and herring are usually thrifty purchases
but are high in sodium.

MEAT ALTERNATES - Dry beans, dry peas, peanut butter and eggs provide
the same protein and many of the same nutrients found in meat.  To
ary meals at low costs, try these alternatives, which are usually as
good or better buys than the less expensive cuts and kinds of meat.

LIGHT ON THE MEAT, HEAVY ON THE FILLER - Use small servings of meat,
poultry and fish and rely on more economical foods; potatoes, rice,
macaroni products, and breads to fill in meals.

SHOPPING CAREFULLY - Before selecting your meat, look over the entire
counter. You may find the same type of meat in different packaging
that is better in quality and less expensive.

STRETCHING YOUR MEAT DOLLAR - Get all the flavor and value from a
piece of meat by using leftover meat in casseroles, salads,
sandwiches, and as flavoring for cooked vegetables. Cook meat bones
with beans or sup. Use broth to moisten meat.

LONG LASTING MEALS - Plan up to a week's worth of meals around a large
single piece of meat.  For example, you can cook a leg of lamb on the
first day, have a sliced hot lamb sandwich the next day, shepherd's
pie on day 3 and a barley and vegetable soup with stock from the bone
on the fourth day.

Origin: Household Hints + Formulas, by Erik Bruun. Shared by: Sharon
Stevens, Aug/95.

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   09-20-95

