Title: DATE AND ALMOND POPPY PASTRIES - Country Living
Categories: Country liv, Desserts, Pastry
Yield: 2 dozen past
MMMMM-----------------------POPPY FILLING----------------------------
2 lg Egg whites
1/2 c  Chopped pitted dates
1/2 c  Sliced natural almonds,
-finely chopped
1 ts Finely grated orange rind
1/3 c  Sugar
1/4 c  Water
1 2/3 c  Ground poppy seeds (see
-Note)
1/2 ts Vanilla extract
MMMMM------------------------PASTRY DOUGH-----------------------------
1 lg Egg yolk
2 tb Orange juice
1 1/2 ts Finely grated orange rind
1/2 ts Almond extract
Additional poppy seeds
-(opt.)
Additional sliced natural
-almonds (opt.)
2 1/4 c  Unsifted all-purpose flour
1 ts Baking powder
1/4 ts Salt
1/3 c  Butter or margarine,
-softened
1/3 c  Sugar
1 lg Egg
1 tb Water
1. Prepare Poppy Filling: In 1-quart saucepan, heat sugar and water to
boiling. Remove from heat and stir in poppy seeds and vanilla. Cool
poppy mixture 10 minutes. Meanwhile, in small bowl, with wire whisk,
beat egg whites until frothy. Stir into poppy mixture. Fold in dates,
and refrigerate filling until ready to use.

2. Prepare Pastry Dough: In medium bowl, combine 2 C flour, the baking
powder, and salt. In large bowl, with electric mixer on medium speed,
beat butter and sugar until fluffy. Separate the egg, adding egg yolk
to butter mixture and placing egg white and the water in cup or small
bowl. Beat egg white and water until well mixed; cover and
refrigerate. Add remaining egg yolk, the orange juice and rind, and
almond extract to butter mixture; beat until well mixed.

3. Reduce mixer speed to low and gradually beat in flour mixture. With
spoon, stir in enough of remaining 1/4 C flour until mixture is firm
enough to shape into a ball. Turn out onto lightly floured surface;
knead a few times until smooth. Wrap and refrigerate pastry dough at
least 1 hour or overnight.

4. Divide pastry dough in half. Between 2 floured sheets of waxed
paper, roll one half of the dough into a 12-inch square. Remove top
sheet of paper. With a knife, cut square into twelve 4 by 3-inch
rectangles. Spoon scant 1 T filling in center of each rectangle.
Spread filling to within 1 inch of the long edges and 1/2 inch of
short edges of rectangle.

5. Bring long edges of rectangle up over filling so that they overlap
in center and enclose filling; press gently to seal. Turn pastry over
so that seam side is down and turn ends under to form a sealed
package. Place pastries, seam side down and 1 1/2 inches apart, on
ungreased baking sheet. Repeat with remaining half of pastry dough.

6. Heat oven to 400'F. With tip of knife, make 4 angled (45-degree)
cuts, 1/2 inch apart and 1/2 inch deep along one long side of each
pastry. Bend pastries into a curve to open up cuts. Brush tops with
reserved egg-white mixture; sprinkle with poppy seeds and garnish
with almond slices, if desired.

7. Bake 12 to 15 minutes or until firm and golden. Cool pastries on
wire rack. Store in airtight container.

Note: You can grind whole poppy seeds using a small food processor,
grain grinder, or coffee mill.

Country Living/November/1994 Scanned & edited by Di Pahl & <gg>

