Title: DILLED QUINOA SALAD WITH AMARANTH - Country Living
Categories: Country liv, Salads, Nuts/grains
Yield: 4 servings
6 sm Red radishes, sliced
1 sm Cucumber, peeled, halved,
-seeded, and sliced
1/4 lb Jarlsberg cheese, cut into
-2-by 1/2-inch strips
Fresh dill sprigs (opt.)
1 c  Quinoa
2 c  Water
1 tb Vegetable oil
Dill Dressing (recipe
-follows)
1 tb Amaranth
1. In large fine-meshed sieve, place quinoa and rinse for 1 minute
under cold running water, rubbing the grains between your fingers to
remove the saponin, a sticky, slightly bitter outer residue that may
be present.

2. In 2-quart saucepan, heat water and oil to boiling over high heat.
Stir in rinsed quinoa and return water to boiling. Cover and reduce
heat to low. Cook 12 to 15 minutes or until all liquid is absorbed.
Remove quinoa from heat and let stand, covered, 5 minutes.

3. Meanwhile, prepare Dill Dressing. With fork, transfer cooked
quinoa to large bowl and cool to room temperature.

4. To pop amaranth, use a small heavy saucepan. Heat the dry saucepan
until very hot over medium-high heat. Using a small pastry brush to
keep the seeds moving and keep them from burning, add the amaranth
and immediately stir and cook until the seeds pop. Remove from heat
if they start to burn. When most of the seeds have popped, transfer
to small bowl. (You must work quickly. If seeds turn black, reduce
the heat. If they don't pop immediately, increase the heat.)

5. Add Dill Dressing, radishes, cucumber, and cheese to cooled quinoa
in large bowl. Set aside 1 T popped amaranth and toss the rest into
the salad. Transfer salad to serving bowl. Sprinkle with remaining
amaranth, Garnish with dill, if desired.

Dill Dressing: In jar with tight-fitting lid, combine 1/3 C olive
oil, 1 t finely grated lemon rind, 2 T lemon juice, 1 T finely
chopped fresh dill, 1 T Dijon-style prepared mustard, 1/2 t salt, and
1/4 t ground white pepper. Cover and shake until well mixed.

Nutritional information per serving-protein: 14 grams; fat: 32 grams;
carbohydrate: 32 grams; fiber: 7 grams@ sodium: 418 milligrams@
cholesterol: 26 milligrams, calories: 446.

Country Living/June/93  Scanned & fixed by DP & GG

