Title: ENCHILADAS WITH MOLE SAUCE - House Beautiful
Categories: House beaut, Main dish, Appetizers
Yield: 6 servings
MMMMM-----------------------FOR MOLE SAUCE----------------------------
1 tb Rice wine vinegar
Zest and juice of 1 orange
2    To 3 sprigs fresh oregano or
-cilantro
1 1/2 ts Salt
1 tb Mexican chocolate, available
-at Hispanic markets
-& specialty food stores
1 ts Freshly ground black pepper
Water or canned chicken
-stock
3    Plum tomatoes, preferably
-Roma
3    To 5 pasilla chilies
2 tb Peanut oil
1    Bay leaf, roughly chopped
2 sm Onions, roughly chopped
2    To 3 garlic cloves, peeled
-and roughly chopped
1    Red bell pepper, stemmed,
-seeded, and roughly chopped
1 ts Chili powder, preferably
-Santa Fe
MMMMM------------------------FOR FILLING-----------------------------
1    Jalapeno chili, seeded &
-roughly chopped (wear
-rubber gloves when handling
-hot peppers)
1 c  Red cabbage, finely shredded
Salt to taste
2 c  Monterey Jack or Muenster
-cheese, grated
1 tb Fresh oregano or cilantro,
-roughly chopped
4 tb Italian parsley, roughly
-chopped
4 tb Scallions, roughly chopped
MMMMM----------------FOR ASSEMBLING THE ENCHILADA---------------------
1/2 c  Sour cream mixed with
2 tb Half-and-half
Whole sprigs offresh oregano
-or cilantro
1/4 c  Peanut oil
12    Corn tortillas
1    Recipe mole enchilada sauce,
-warmed
1    Recipe filling
Prepare mole sauce: Line a broiling pan with aluminum foil and broil
tomatoes under a preheated broiler for 2 to 3 minutes per side until
nicely browned. Chop tomatoes and set aside.

Preheat a dry heavy skillet over medium heat until it is hot and toast
pasilla chilies, stirring constantly for 1 or 2 minutes or until they
are fragrant. Do not let chilies burn. Transfer chilies to a work
surface and set aside to cool. Wearing rubber gloves, discard the
stems, seeds, and ribs from the chilies and tear them into small
pieces. Place chilies in a bowl, cover with 4 C of hot water and set
aside for 30 minutes.

In a large heavy skillet, heat the peanut oil over moderate heat
until it is hot and saute bay leaf, onions, garlic, red pepper,
reserved roasted tomatoes, and chili powder, stirring constantly with
a wooden spoon for about 5 minutes or until vegetables are soft. Add
reserved chilies and liquid to the pan. Add rice vinegar, orange zest
and juice, oregano, salt, chocolate, and black pepper to pan and
simmer mixture 20 minutes or until chilies are soft. Cool.

In a blender or food processor, blend sauce until smooth. If
necessary, add water or chicken stock to achieve the consistency of a
smooth purse. Season to taste. Makes about 1 1/2 C sauce.

Prepare filling: In a bowl mix together cheese, oregano or cilantro,
parsley, scallions, jalapeno chili, red cabbage, and salt, Set aside.
Makes about 4 C filling.

Prepare enchiladas: In a medium-size heavy skillet, heat peanut oil
to just below the smoking point; tortilla should sizzle when it
touches the hot oil.

Lightly cover both sides of tortilla with mole sauce. Using tongs,
place tortilla in the hot skillet and heat each side 2 to 3 seconds
or until it is soft. Lay tortilla on a work surface and place 2 to 3
T  ofthe cheese filling across the center, roll the tortilla away
from you so that the filling is enclosed in the tortilla, place on a
small oven-proofplate and set aside. Repeat process. Bake tortillas
in a preheated 350'F oven for 5 to 8 minutes. Remove plates from oven
and top each tortilla with 1 T mole sauce. Drizzle with sour cream
mixture and garnish plate with oregano or cuantro. Serve immediately.
Serves 12 as a first course or 6 as a main course.

House Beautiful/June/94  Scanned & fixed by Di & Gary

