Title: Four Ways of Cooking Plain Rice I/II
Categories: Information, Middle east, Pasta/rice
Yield: 1 batch
1    Info below
Roden writes: "One pound of rice is usually sufficient for 6 people. A
chicken or meat stock left over from a soup or stew, used instead of
water, will make a magnificent rice.  If you are using commercial
long-grain American rice that comes in a box or bag, there is no need
whatever to wash it first.  However, if you use one of the imported
rices that come in sacks, be sure to wash by pouring water over it in
a bowl and stirring well for a few seconds; then rinse under cold
running water until the water runs clear, and drain thoroughly."

1.  A Syrian Way

2 c  Long-grain rice
4 c  ;Water
Salt
4    To 6 tb. butter or margarine

Bring water to the boil in a pan with a little salt to taste.  Throw
in the washed and drained rice, bring to the boil again, and boil
vigorously for 2 minutes.  Cover the pan with a tight-fitting lid and
simmer very gently, undisturbed, for about 20 minutes, until the
water has been absorbed and the rice is cooked.  It should be tender
and separate, with little holes all over the surface.  Turn off the
heat, and allow the rice to rest for about 10 minutes.

Melt the butter or margarine in a saucepan and pour it evenly all
over the rice.  Let it rest again, covered, for 3 minutes longer,
until the melted fat has been absorbed by the rice.

2.  A Lebanese Way

The ingredients and quantities are the same as above.

Put the water, salt and butter or margarine in a saucepan, and bring
to the boil.  Throw in the rice and boil vigorously for 2 minutes.
Cover the pan tightly and simmer very gently, undisturbed, for about
20 minutes, until the rice is tender and fluffy, and little holes
have appeared all over the surface.  Turn off the heat and allow to
rest for 10 minutes before serving.

From "A Book of Middle Eastern Food" by Claudia Roden. New York:
Random House, 1974.  Pp. 339-340.  ISBN 0-394-71948-4.  Posted by
Cathy Harned.

Submitted By ROBERT MILES   On   09-08-95

