Title: Fruits and Vegetables
Categories: Information, Fruit, Vegetables
Yield: 1 servings
No Ingredients Found
BUY IN SEASON - Supply and season influence prices of fresh
vegetables and fruits.  Prices of canned, frozen, and dried
vegetables and fruits vary widely by item, brand grade, type of
process, and seasoning.  Cost studies have shown that in season
vegetables and fruits cost only half as much as out of seaosn items.
Also, foods i nseason will be at their peak in quality.  Keep in
mind, however, that some vegetables and fruits, even in season, may
not be within your budget.

COMPARE COSTS - Check different forms of a food; fresh, canned, dried,
frozen, to see which is the best buy.

LIMIT PERISHABLE PURCHASES - Even at bargain prices, do not be
tempted to get more fresh produce than you or your family can
consume.  There's no point in spending money on food you may be
throwing into the trash or the compost heap.

STOCK UP - As opposed to fresh produce, stock up on canned and frozen
products your family likes when you discover a bargain.

SEASON YOURSELF - Season and prepare sauces for frozen vegetables
yourself. Frozen vegetables with sauce or butter added or boil in the
bag veggies often cost about twice as much as plain frozen vegetables.

DRESSING OVER - When your salad dressing is reaching the end, you can
give it new life by adding two teaspoon of vinegar or lemon juice,
shaking it, and then slowly whipping in half a cup of sour cream or
mayonnaise.

COMPARING PRICES - Although prices are often dictated by season,
supply, and locale, some fruits and vegetables are generally more
expensive than others. The following is a rought guideline on the
least and most costly fruits and vegetables:

FRESH FRUITS: Least costly; apples, bananas, grapefruit, oranges,
pears, and watermelon.  Most costly; grapes and honeydew melon.

FRESH VEGETABLES: Least costly; cabbage, carrots, cucumbers, eggplant,
green beans, lettuce, onion, potatoes, sweet potatoes, and turnips.
Most costly; asparagus, cauliflower, peas, spinach and winter squash.

CANNED FRUITS AND JUICES: Least costly; apple sauce, apple juice,
apricot juice, citrus juices, pineapple juices, and prune juices.
Most costly; apricots, berries, cherries, citrus selections, fruit
cocktails, peaches, pears and plums.

CANNED VEGETABLES: Least costly; beets, collard greens, corn, green
beans, kale, mixed vegetable juices, mixed vegetables, mustard
greens, peas, potatoes, tomato juice, and turnip greens. Most costly;
aspargus and mushrooms.

FROZEN FRUITS AND JUICES: Least costly; concentrated citrus juices and
other juices.  Most costly; berries, cherries, melon balls, and
peaches.

FROZEN VEGETABLES: Least costly; carrots and potatoes. Most costly;
asparagus, cauliflower, corn on the cob, sweet potatoes, vegetable in
pouch or in cheese and other sauces.

Origin: Household Hints + Formulas, by Erik Bruun Shared by: Sharon
Stevens, Aug/95.

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   09-20-95

