Title: Fruit Packs a Punch (Part 1)
Categories: Fruit, Information
Yield: 1 servings
-USA WEEKEND, 9/1-3/95
Article by Jean Carper
-in "Eat Smart" column,
All kinds of fruits are packed with a variety of antioxidants and
nutrients, including vitamin C, potassium, fiber.   In studies,
people who eat lots of fruit tend to have lower risks of high blood
pressure, heart attack, stroke and certain cancers, including lung,
esophageal, stomach and pancreatic cancer.

A recent Harvard study of 31,000 men found that those who ate the most
fruit fiber--equivalent to that in five apples a day--were only half
as apt to develop high blood pressure as those who ate less fruit.

A National Cancer Institute study in Louisiana found that twice-a-day
fruit eaters (bananas, oranges, strawberries, canned fruits, orange
juice and apples) had only 40 percent the risk of pancreatic cancer
of those eating fruit less than once a day.  The more fruit, the
lower the risk.

7 Tasty Disease Fighters:

APPLES:  Very rich in pectin, a fiber that can help reduce blood
cholesterol and possibly prevent cancer.  In a University of Texas
study, animals fed pectin had half as much colon cancer.  In a recent
Dutch study, men who got high doses of antioxidants from apples, as
well as from tea and onions, tended to live longer and have less
heart disease.

GRAPES:  Deep-colored grapes are among the richest sources of
antioxidants, including the anti-cancer chemical quercetin.
Deep-colored grapes and purple grape juice have been found to "thin
the blood," discouraging clots that help clog arteries, triggering
heart attacks and strokes.

AVOCADOS:  High in fat, but most of it monounsaturated (like olive
oil), which helps protect arteries and improves blood cholesterol.
Very high in potassium (thought to help deter strokes) and the
antioxidant glutathione, linked to less cancer and delayed aging.

BERRIES:  Strawberries and raspberries are packed with anti-cancer
compounds.  Cranberries and blueberries help fight bacteria that cause
urinary tract infections.  A study published in the JOURNAL OF THE
AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION noted that drinking cranberry juice
especially helped combat such infections.

BANANAS and PLANTAINS:  Reported to strengthen the stomach lining
against assaults by acid and other noxious agents.  Popular in Indian
and Europe to treat and prevent ulcers.  High in potassium, B6,
fiber. (Plantains-- large banana-like fruits used commonly in Latino
dishes--must be cooked.)

CITRUS FRUITS:  The orange is full of anti-cancer chemicals, including
vitamin C, according to the National Cancer Institute.  Grapefruit
pulp contains a unique fiber that may help retard and even reverse
clogging of arteries.

MELONS:  Cantaloupe is rich in beta carotene, thought to help boost
immunity and lower the risk of cancer and heart disease.  Watermelon,
ounce for ounce, has the most antioxidant lycopene, linked to lower
cancer rates.

Fiber Treasures:  Fruits are fiber-rich.  Fiber suppresses
cholesterol, fights constipation, and may help prevent cancer.

Fiber Super Sources:  Most adults should eat 25-30g of fiber a day.

Fiber grams from:
1 apple = 3.7
1 pear = 4
1 banana = 3
1/4 cup pitted prunes = 4
1 cup raspberries = 8.4
1 cup strawberries = 3.9
2 ounces raisins = 3
10 dried apricot halves = 3.2
:
:
:
:
:
:
:
:

Daily Dose:  Eat three or more servings of fruit a day.  A serving
is: 1 medium piece of fruit -or- 6 ounces fruit juice -or- 1/2 cup
cooked or chopped raw fruit.

Pesticide Watch:  To get pesticides off the skin of fruits, such as
apples, always scrub with a mild solution of soap and warm water (a
few drops of dish detergent in a pint of water).  Or peel wax-coated
fruits. For extra safety, buy organic fruits, not sprayed or treated
with pesticides.

...Continued in part 2.
Submitted By IRIS GRAYSON   On   09-24-95

