Title: Garnishing an Apple Bird
Categories: Information, Fruit, Poultry
Yield: 1 servings
No Ingredients Found
The apple bird is an ideal decoration for placing on a cheese,
appetizer or hors d'oeuvre tray.  This delightful garnish is
relatively easy to make using the small paring knife.  The juice of
the apple aids in holding the birds' wings together, therefore it is
important to use a fresh apple when making this garnish. To further
enhance this decoration, you can mix different color apples to
alternate the wing colors.

1. Start the apple bird by slicing off a little less than 1/3 of the
apple to creat a flat surface.  Save this piece to be used later for
the neck and head.

2. Place the apple so it rests on it's flat surface. Using the small
paring knife, cut a very small "V" wedge from the top of the apple.
Set this wedge aside and cut another "V" wedge a little bit larger
than the first. Continue cuttin gwedges (each a little larger than
the others) until you have five or six of them. When working with a
large apple, use a larger knife as the wedges become bigger.

3. After cutting the top wedges, turn the apple on its side and cut
another series of wedges in the same way.  After doing this, turn the
apple to the other side and repeat the procedure.  If it is going to
be some time before the apple bird is to be displayed, place the
wedges in a container of water to which the juice of one lemon has
been added. Also wet the apple with this same solution.

4. After all the "V" wedge slices have been cut, place the apple so it
rests on the flat surface. Take the largest of the wedges and place it
into the wedge cut of the apple. Extend this wedge so that it
protrudes slightly less than half way towards the back of the apple.
Place the next size smaller, and continue extending the wedges.

5. Repeat the same procedure for the side wings.  It is a good idea
to put the "V" cut wedges back into the same part of the apple they
came from.

6. To get the head and neck, slice a small strip from the piece of
apple which was cut off to form the flat surface.  Place this piece
in the front groove of the apple. To help support the head and neck,
a toothpick can be used.

7. Once the apple bird is assembled, squeeze lemon juice over the
entire bird to prevent it from turning brown.  To perch the complete
bird, cut a flat surface from a potato and with two toothpicks, set
the bird on top of the potato.

Origin: The Fine Art of Garnishing, By Jerry Crowley. Shared by:
Sharon Stevens, Aug/95.

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   08-18-95

