Title: Garnishing a Beet Candy Cane
Categories: Information, Vegetables, Candies
Yield: 1 servings
No Ingredients Found
The twin curl cutter in the garnishing kit is a garnishing tool used
to creat vegetable and fruit curls of contrasting colors.  You can
make garnishes from carrots, beets, potatoes and turnips by
intertwining the different vegetable together to create eye appealing
and appetizing garnishes for relish trays, salads and holiday
occasions.  The candy cane beet never fails to get a delightful
response at Christmas time and it will mystify those who do not know
how they are made.

1. To make the beet candy cane garnish, select a large beet and cut
the stem and root off to creat a flat surface.

2. Attach the "T" handle to the top of the double ringed shaft.
Insert the point of the tool into the center of the vegetable.  Use a
slight pressure and turn the tool clockwise into the center of the
beet until the double rings start to cut through the vegetable.
Continue using a slight pressure while turning the tool clockwise
until the rings cut all the way through the vegetable and come out
the bottom end of the beet. After the tool is completely through,
remove the 'T' handle and slide the twin curl cutter out of the
vegetable.

3.  TURN, do not pull, the cut portion from the center of the beet.
Once you have turned the curls from the beet, they can be easily
separated by gently turnin geach curl in the opposite direction of
each other. This will produce two beet curls.

4. Repeat the same procedure on a turnip to get the white curls.
Take one beet curl and one turnip curl and twist them into each other
to make the candy cane garnishes. When ready to serve, simmer these
vegetable candy canes in lightly salted water for 10 minutes and
serve.  After using the twin curl cutter on beets or turnips, the
hollewed vegetable can be filled with seasoned meats or cheese to
create a novel and delicious filled vegetable.

Origin: The Fine Art of Garnishing, by Jerry Crowley. Shared by:
Sharon Stevens, Aug/95.

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   08-19-95

