Title: GINGERBREAD BUILDINGS - Country Living
Categories: Country liv, Holiday
Yield: 3 buildings
"holes"
Colored sugar, dried fruit,
Nuts
Pointed ice cream cone for
-steeple (opt.)
Cotton batting and
Artificial trees
Paper for patterns,
Cardboard, masking tape,
Aluminum foil,
Gingerbread Dough (recipe
-follows)
Royal Frosting (recipe
-follows)
Candy sticks, hard candy
1. Make patterns: From paper, draw and cut out two 6 by 3 1/2-inch
rectangles; label one "horizontal side" and the other "vertical
side." Fold the vertical side in half lengthwise to make a 6 by 1
1/4-inch rectangle. Label one short edge "top" and the other
"bottom." Along the 6 inch cut edge, measure and mark a point 3
1/2-inches up from bottom. From that mark, draw and cut a diagonal
line to the top folded corner. Open pattern.

2. Make cardboard frames: For each building (dough recipe makes 3),
from cardboard, cut out 2 vertical sides, 2 horizontal sides, one 6
by 3 1/2-inch rectangle for base, and two 6 1/2 by 3 1/2-inch
rectangles for roof. Tape sides together (alternating horizontal and
vertical) and stand up to make a box; tape securely onto base. Tape
two 6-inch sides of roof pieces together and set aside. (Cardboard
roof will be frosted and placed last.)

3. Prepare Gingerbread Dough. Heat oven to 350'F. Cover 3 large baking
sheets with aluminum foil. On prepared sheets, roll out gingerbread
dough (onethird on each) to 1/8-inch thickness.

4. Using paper patterns as a guide, cut gingerbread to make 2
horizontal and 2 vertical sides for each building, leaving 1/4 inch
between pieces. Remove and reroll trimmings; cut out doors, windows,
window boxes, shutters, signs, and other decorative pieces, as
illustrated or design your own. Place doors, windows, and other
decorative pieces on gingerbread sides, making the front of some
buildings on the horizontal side and some on the vertical side. Using
knife, score gingerbread pieces to resemble shingles, bricks, or
stone. Score doors and windows.

5. Bake gingerbread pieces 12 to 15 minutes or until firm and golden
brown. While still warm, measure against pattems and trim off excess
caused by expansion during baking. Cool gingerbread on flat surface.

6. Prepare Royal Frosting. Spread some Royal Frosting on cardboard
frames. Press gingerbread side pieces onto frames. Tie a piece of
yarn, string, or ribbon around building to hold gingerbread in place
until secure. Set aside at least 30 minutes.

7. When sides are secure, remove yarn. Set each building on a piece of
aluminum foil. Stir frosting; spoon some into decorating bag fitted
with 1/4-inch-wide round or star tip. Pipe a border at all corners of
buildings, decorate sides with frosting, candy, colored sugar, dried
fruit, or nuts. Print signs, if desired. Pipe some frosting along top
edges of sides to attach cardboard roofs; press roofs into place.

8. Generously frost roofs with remaining frosting to cover cardboard.
Press candy onto roofs to resemble chimneys. Add additional candy
decorations, if desired. To make church steeple, if desired, cut out
2 V-shaped openings opposite each other in open end of ice cream
cone, then place cone over point of roof and secure with frosting.
Set buildings aside several hours or overnight to dry.

9. Display on cotton batting surrounded by artificial trees.

Country Living/December/92 Scanned & fixed by Di Pahl & <gg>

