Title: GINGERBREAD AND PEAR TART - Country Living
Categories: Country liv, Holiday, Pie/tart, Fruit, Desserts
Yield: 8 servings
1/2 ts Baking soda
1/2 ts Ground cinnamon
1/2 ts Salt
Sour Cream Custard (recipe
-follows)
1 tb Apricot preserves or apple
-jelly, melted
Confectioners' sugar
1    Long sprig fresh lemon thyme
-(opt.)
4 c  Water
1 c  Granulated sugar
1    Cinnamon stick
4    (1 1/2 lb) Bosc pears
5 tb Butter, softened
1/3 c  Firmly packed light-brown
-sugar
1/4 c  Molasses
1    Large egg
1 1/2 c  Unsifted all-purpose flour
1 ts Ground ginger
1. In 2-quart saucepan, heat water, granulated sugar, and cinnamon
stick to boiling over medium-high heat, stirring occasionally, until
sugar dissolves. Meanwhile, peel pears, cut each lengthwise in half,
and core.

2. Reduce heat so water mixture just simmers and add pear halves;
poach 10 in- utes. With slotted spoon, remove pear halves and place,
cut sides down, on pa- per towels to drain and cool. (Poaching liquid
can be stored in the refrigerator reused to poach other fruits, such
as pies.)

3. Meanwhile, prepare gingerbread tart dough: In large bowl, with
electric mixer on medium speed, beat butter and brown sugar until
light and fluffy. Add molasses and egg and beat on high speed until
smooth and well blended. Reduce speed to very low. Add flour, ginger,
baking soda, cinnamon, and salt; beat on very low speed, scraping
bowl as necessary, until soft dough forms.

4. Heat oven to 375'F. Lightly grease a 10-inch tart pan with
removable bottom. With floured fingers, spread dough mixture evenly
on bottom and up side of tart pan. Place tart pan on rimmed baking
sheet; set aside.

5. Prepare Sour Cream Custard, Spread custard in bottom of
gingerbread-lined tart pan. With knife, score 4 lengthwise lines in
rounded side of each pear half; place halves, scored sides up and
stem ends toward center, in a ring in custard. Bake tart 30 to 35
minutes or until custard and crust are firm.

6. Remove tart from oven and heat broil- er. To brown pears on top of
tart, cover tart with a piece of aluminum foil; pierce hole in foil
above each pear half and pull back foil to uncover each pear only.
(The foil will now look like a spoked-wheel stencil.) Brush pear tops
with jelly; broil tart 1 to 1 1/2 minutes or until pear tops are just
browned. Remove foil and cool tart to room temperature.

7. To serve, remove side of tart pan. Place tart on serving plate.
Sift confectioners' sugar around edge of tart and, if desired,
garnish center with a sprig of lemon thyme that has been twisted into
a wreath. Store any leftover tart in the refrigerator.

Sour Cream Custard: In food processor fitted with chopping blade or in
blender, combine 1/2 C sour cream, 1 large egg, 3 T sugar, 2 T all-
purpose flour, 1 T milk, and 1 t grated lemon rind. Process or blend
until smooth.

Country Living/Dec/93  Scanned and fixed by DP and GG

