Title: GOAT-CHEESE AND ROOT-VEGETABLE TERRINE - Country Living
Categories: Casseroles, Country liv, Vegetables, Appetizers
Yield: 6 servings
-cheese
1 pk 8-oz  cream cheese, softened
1 pk 7 1/2-oz farmer cheese
6    Green onions, finely chopped
Fresh dill sprigs (opt.)
1 lb Carrots
1    16-oz jar whole beets
Dill Dressing (recipe
-follows)
1    11-oz package soft goat
1. At least 6 hours before serving, prepare terrine: Line an 8 1/2-
by 4 1/2-inch loaf pan with plastic wrap, allowing wrap to overhang
all sides by at least 2 inches; set aside.

2. Peel carrots and cut diagonally into 1/4-inch-thick slices. Place
carrot slices in 2-quart saucepan, cover with water, heat to boiling
over medium-high heat. Cook carrots until just tender-10 to 12 min-
utcs. Drain and set aside in bowl. Meanwhile, drain beets and cut
into 1/4-inch-thick slices; set aside in another bowl.

3. Prepare Dill Dressing. Mix half of dressing with carrots; mix
remaining dressing with beets.

4. In large bowl, with electric mixer at low speed, beat together goat
cheese, cream cheese, and farmer cheese until well blended.

5. To assemble terrine, cover bottom of prepared loaf pan with 1/3 of
carrots, arranged in slightly overlapping rows. Sprinkle 1/3 of
chopped green onions over carrots, their spread 1/4 of the cheese
mixture in an even layer to cover onions and carrots. (Fingertips,
lightly moistened with water, work best for spreading the cheese.)
Arrange half of beets in a layer to cover cheese. Follow beet layer
with a layer of cheese and then repeat each layer again using the
same amounts: carrot, onion, cheese, beet, and cheese. Sprinkle
remaining chopped onions over last cheese layer and top terrine with
remaining carrots.

6. Fold overhanging plastic wrap over terrine to cover; refrigerate 6
hours or overnight.

7. To serve, uncover terrine and turn upside down onto a cutting
board; gently remove loaf pan and plastic wrap. Slice terrine across
into 6 pieces. Transfer to serving plates. Garnish each piece with a
dill sprig, if desired.

Dill Dressing: In small bowl, with wire whisk, beat together 3 T cider
Vinegar, 2 T finely chopped fresh dill, 1 t honey, and 1/4 t salt.
Slowly whisk in 1/3 C light olive oil.

Country Living/May/93  Scanned & fixed by DP & GG

