Title: Gobi Manchurian
Categories: Side dish, Vegetables, Chilies, Chinese
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM----------------GOBI MANCHURIAN INGREDIENTS---------------------
-stores)
3    Garlic cloves, fine chopped
6    Inches Ginger, fine chopped
6    To 8 green chilies, cut
-longitudinally
x  Ajinamoto (MSG - available
-in Chinese stores)
x  Ea Cauliflower (Gobi)
x  Corn Flour (or Corn meal)
x  Maggie Sweet & Sour Ketchup,
(available in Indian stores)
OR
x  Chinese Sweet & Sour Sauce
(available in Chinese
PREPARATION: First pluck the flowerettes from the Cauliflower. You
may cut them into bitesize pieces. Make a batter of Corn meal by
adding water to 1 cup of corn meal. Add a little salt to taste and
mix well to a thin paste. Dip the Gobi pieces in the batter
completely and fry them until light brown. Spread them on a paper
towel so that the extra oil soaks into the towel.

On a frying pan (A non stick) or a Wok, put little bit of oil (Sesame
or Peanut oil will give you that special taste) and heat it for a
minute in low to medium flame.

Put the cut Garlic, Ginger and green chillies and fry them until they
start to turn brown. Add two tablespoons of Sweet & Sour Sauce to
this and start turning the mixture for about 2 minutes so as not to
let it stick to the pan. Now add the fried Gobi pieces to this
mixture and depending upon the dryness of the mixture, you may add 2
more tablespoons of the sweet & sour sauce. Continue stirring for
about 10 minutes. For the last 2 minutes, add a pinch of Ajinamoto
(MSG - optional) to the manchurian. You can add salt to taste. The
whole process takes about 20 minutes to prepare.

OBSERVATIONS: Depending upon how hot you like it, you can add/reduce
the pieces of green chillies. You may also increase Garlic/Ginger
pieces depending upon who your guests are. Depending on how
dry/fluidy you like your manchurian, you need to reduce/add the Sweet
& Sour sauce. Very little Ajinamoto (MSG) is to be added to give the
Chinese aroma to your manchurian. God help you if add more than 4.

CONCLUSION: I had to try this recipe thrice till I got the Bangalorish
look and taste to the Manchurian. Courtesy: Harish Amble

Submitted By SAM LEFKOWITZ   On   09-11-95

