Title: GRILLED BREAST OF CHICKEN WITH CORN COULIS - Country Livi
Categories: Country liv, Poultry, Main dish, Breakfast
Yield: 2 servings
-eggplant
4    Lengthwise slices medium
-zucchini
2    Lengthwise quarters small
-endive
1/4    Sweet red pepper, cut
-into 6 diamonds
1/4 ts Salt
1/4 c  Sliced wild mushrooms
3    Sprigs fresh thyme
1/8 ts Ground white pepper
1 c  Concentrated homemade or
-condensed canned chicken
-broth
1/4 c  Water
1/2 c  Orzo
1/2 c  Fresh or frozen whole-kernel
-yellow corn
2 tb Olive oil
2 lg Chicken breast halves,
-skinned and boned
4    Crosswise slices small
1. In 2-quart saucepan, heat 1/4 C broth and the water to boiling
over high heat. Add orzo and return to boiling; reduce heat to low
and cook until tender and most of liquid is absorbed-about 10
minutes. Set orzo aside and keep warm.

2. In 1-quart saucepan, combine corn and remaining 1/4 C  broth. Heat
to boiling over high heat. Spoon corn mixture into blender and blend
until pureed. Return corn puree, or coulis, to saucepan and keep warm.

3. Heat broiler, indoor grill, or grill-marked cast-iron skillet.
(See Note for using outside grill.) Brush half the oil on chicken
breasts, eggplant, zucchini, endive, and pepper diamonds; sprinkle
with salt. Arrange chicken and vegetables on broiler pan or grill and
cook 4 inches from heat source 5 minutes. Or cook in greased skillet
over high heat. Turn chicken and vegetables and cook 5 min- utes on
remaining side. Remove vegetables to baking pan and keep warm. Cook
chicken 5 minutes longer or until cooked through.

4. In medium skillet, heat remaining T oil. Add mushrooms, a sprig
fresh thyme, and the white pepper; saute, stiffing constantly, until
mushrooms are tender-about 5 minutes. Remove thyme sprig and stir in
cooked orzo along with any broth remaining in pan. Cook, stirring
until all liquid is absorbed.

5. To serve, divide orzo and vegetables between 2 warm plates to fill
one side of each. Spoon corn coulis onto remaining side of plates;
place chicken breasts on coulis; garnish with thyme sprigs.

Note: If you are in an area where climate permits, an outdoor grill
may be used. If using charcoal, ignite about 30 minutes before
cooking orzo. Do not use a charcoal grill indoors.

Nutritional information per serving protein: 41 grams; fat: 18 grams;
carbohydrate: 54 grams; fiber: 5 grams; sodium: 1, 128 milligrams;
cholester- ol: 69 milligrams; calories: 549.

Country Living/Feb/93  Scanned & fixed by DP & GG

