Title: GRILLED PIZZA - House Beautiful
Categories: House beaut
Yield: 4 pizzas
MMMMM-------------------------FOR DOUGH------------------------------
-ground white cornmeal
3 tb Whole-wheat flour
1 tb Virgin olive oil
2 1/2 c  To 3 1/2 C unbleached
-white flour
2 1/2 ts Active dry yeast
Pinch of sugar
1 c  Warm water
2 1/4 ts Kosher salt
1/4 c  Johnnycake meal or fine
MMMMM--------------------------ASSEMBLY-------------------------------
2 c  Extra-virgin olive oil
Desired toppings
1    Recipe pizza dough,
-recipe follows
In a large mixing bowl, dissolve the yeast and the sugar in the warm
water. After 5 minutes, stir in the salt, johnnycake meal, whole-
wheat flour, and oil. Gradually add the white flour, stirring with a
wooden spoon until a stiff dough has formed.

Place the dough on a floured board and knead it for several minutes,
adding only enough additional flour to keep the dough from sticking.
When the dough is .;niooth and shiny, transfer it to a bowl that has
been brushed with oil. To prevent a skin from forming, brush the top
of the dough with additional oil. Cover the bowl with plastic wrap
and let dough rise in a warm place, away from drafts, until it has
doubled in bulk, 1 1/2 to 2 hours.

Punch down the dough and knead once more. Let the dough rise again for
about 40 minutes.

Punch down the dough again. If it is sticky, knead in a bit more
flour. Dough may be wrapped and refrigerated overnight, but must be
brought to room temperature before grilling. Do not freeze dough.
Makes about 24 oz of dough, enough for 4 main-course pizzas or 8 to
12 appetizer pizzas.

Assembly: Prepare a hot charcoal fire, setting the clean grill rack 3
to 4 inches above the coals.

On a large oiled, inverted baking sheet, spread and flatten desired
amount of dough with your hands into a free-form circle, 1/8-inch
thick. Do not make a lip. You may end up with a rectangle rather than
a circle; the shape is not as important as maintaining an even
thickness.

When the fire is hot (when you can hold your hand over the coals for
only 3 to 4 seconds at a distance of 5 inches), use your fingertips
to lift the dough gently by the two corners closest to you, and drape
it onto the grill. Catch the loose edge on the grill first and guide
the remaining dough into place over the fire. Within a minute the
dough will puff slightly, the underside will stiffen, and grill marks
will appear.

Using tongs, immediately flip the crust over onto the coolest part of
the grill. Quickly brush surface with olive oil. Scatter desired
toppings over the dough, and drizzle with olive oil.

Slide the pizza back toward the hot coals, but not directly over them.
Using tongs, rotate the pizza frequently so that different sections
receive high heat, checking the underside often to see that it is not
burning.

The pizza is done when the top is bubbly or the cheese is melted,
about 6 to 8 minutes. More time on the grill will only dry out and
toughen the pizza. Serve at once, either whole or cut into wedges or
thin strips.

House Beautiful/July/94  Scanned & fixed by Di and Gary

