Title: GRILLED RATATOUIELLE - Country Cooking
Categories: Country coo, Soup/stew, Main dish
Yield: 6 servings
1 lg Onion
1 md Sweet red pepper
1 md Sweet yellow or green pepper
1/3 c  Olive oil
4    Cloves garlic, finely
-chopped
2 ts Dried basil
1/4 ts Ground black pepper
1 md (1 lb) eggplant, cut
-crosswise into 1/2-inch
-slices
1 1/2 ts Salt
Fruitwood chips or dried
-grape vines
2 md Zucchini
2 lg Ripe tomatoes
1.  In colander, lightly sprinkle each eggplant slice on both sides
with salt. Let eggplant stand 30 minutes over the sink or a bowl
until liquid drips out. Meanwhile, heat coals or wood in a grill
until medium-hot, and soak wood chips in water 30 minutes. Lightly
oil or coat grill rack with nonstick vegetable cooking spray and set
aside.

2. Cut zucchini lengthwise into thirds, then crosswise in half. Cut
tomatoes and onion crosswise into 1/2-inch-thick slices, keeping the
onion rings together. Rinse eggplant with cold water and pat dry.
Place cut vegetables in a single layer on a tray or shallow pan.

3. Drain wood chips and place on hot coals. Heat grill rack. Place
red and yellow peppers on hot grill rack about 4 to 6 inches above
medium-hot coals and grill, turning every 5 nunutes, until blistered
on all sides. Place peppers in a brown paper bag or plastic
food-storage bag; let stand until cool enough to handle.

4. Meanwhile, in skillet on the grill, heat oil and cook the garlic a
few seconds. Remove skillet from grill. lightly brush both sides of
vegetables on tray with some garlic oil. Grill vegetables over medium
coals until crisp-tender. The eggplant and zucchini will take about 4
minutes per side, the onion about 3 minutes a side, and the tomatoes
about 1 minute per side.

5. When all vegetables are grilled, return to tray. Peel, seed, and
cut cooled peppers into strips. Cut grilled tomatoes into small
chunks. Coarsely cut up grilled onion and place in skillet with any
leftover garlic oil. Heat on grill over low coals for 5 minutes. Add
tomatoes, basil, and black pepper; cook on grill until tomatoes are
bubbly. Cut eggplant slices into halves or quarters but leave small
slices whole. Stir zucchini, eggplant, and grilled peppers into
tomato mixture in skillet. Heat through and serve.

Country Cooking/Summer/94  Scanned & fixed by Di and Gary

