Title: Ham Biscuits With Onion Marmalade - Country Living
Categories: Meats, Breads, Dips/spread, Country liv
Yield: 28 biscuits
3/4 c  Buttermilk
Onion Marmalade (recipe
-follows)
1/4 lb Thinly sliced smoked ham
2 c  Unsifted all-purpose flour
2 ts Baking powder
1/4 ts Baking soda
1/2 ts Salt
1/2 c  (1 stick) butter
1. Heat oven to 425'F. In large bowl, combine flour, baking powder,
baking soda, and salt. With pastry blender or 2 knives, cut in butter
until mixture resembles coarse crumbs.

2. Add buttermilk to flour mixture; stir gently until mixture clings
together and forms a soft dough. Turn dough out onto lightly floured
surface and knead 6 to 8 times.

3. With floured rolling pin, roll out dough to 1/2-inch thickness.
With floured 1-1/4-inch-round cutter, cut out 28 rounds, rerolling
dough if necessary. Place biscuits, about 1 inch apart, on ungreased
baking sheets.

4. Bake biscuits 10 to 12 minutes, or until they start to brown on
top and are golden brown on bottom. Remove from baking sheets and
Cool on wire rack. (Biscuits may be made ahead and frozen, wrapped,
for several weeks.)

5. Prepare Onion Marmalade. Marmalade may be kept in refrigerator up
to 3 days or in freezer for several weeks.

6. To assemble: Divide ham into 28 pieces. Cut biscuits horizontally
in half. Layer each bottom half with 1 piece of ham and 1 t Onion
Marmalade. Replace biscuit tops and serve, or refrigerate overnight
in an airtight container.

Onion Marmalade: In large skillet, heat 1 T olive oil over medium
heat. Add 2 Cliced onions and 14 t crushed red pepper; cook, covered,
5 minutes, stirring occasional- ly. Stir in 1/3 C chopped pitted
prunes, 1/4 C Marsala, 3 T firmly packed light-brown sugar, 2 T
cider vinegar, 1 t freshly-grated, peeled gingerroot, and 1/4 t salt.
Reduce heat to low, and cook, covered, 12 to 15 minutes or until
prunes soften and mixture achieves a dark-brown color. Stir
frequently to break up prune pieces. Cool and transfer marmalade to
jar or plastic container if making ahead.

Country Living/June/90 Scanned & fixed by DP & GG

