Title: Hamam Mahshi (Braised Pigeons W/ Crushed Wheat Stuffing)
Categories: Middle east, Game
Yield: 4 servings
4    Pigeons; (1 pound each) oven
;ready, or 4 1 pound doves,
;young partridge, baby
;pheasant, quail, woodcock,
;or grouse
1 1/2 c  Water, cold
2 1/2 c  Chicken stock; fresh or can
Parsley sprigs
8 tb Butter; 1/4 pound stick
1/2 c  Onion; finely chopped
Pigeon giblets; finely chop
2 1/2 c  Fireek; (coarsely crushed
;green wheat grains)
2 ts Mint, fresh; finely cut or
;1 ts. dried mint, crumbled
1 1/2 ts Salt
Black pepper; freshly ground
Name; Braised Pigeons with Crushed Wheat Stuffing

Over moderate heat melt 4 tablespoons of the butter in a heavy 10
to 12 inch skillet.  When the foam begins to subside, add the onions
and the pigeon giblets and, stirring frequently, cook for 8 to 10
minutes, or until the onions are soft and light brown.  Add the
fireek, mint, 1 teaspoon of the salt and a few grindings of the
pepper and stir for 2 or 3 minutes until the grains are coated with
butter. Set aside. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees (F).
Pat the pigeons thoroughly dry inside and out with paper towels and
sprinkle their cavities with the remaining salt and a few grindings of
pepper.  Then stuff 5 tablespoons of the fireek mixture into the
breast cavity and 1 tablespoon into the neck cavity of each pigeon.
Set the remaining fireek aside.  Fasten the neck skin to the back of
each bird with a skewer and close the breast openings by lacing them
with skewers or sewing them with heavy white thread.  Truss the birds
by tying their legs together and bT 1: the skins with the remaining 4
tablespoons of butter.
Place the pigeons, breast side up, in a heavy 4 to 5 quart
casserole and pour in the water.  Bring to a boil on top of the
stove, cover tightly and braise in the middle of the oven for 45
minutes. Baste the pigeons with the liquid in the casserole, and
continue braising for 1 hour longer. To test for doneness, pierce the
thigh of a bird with the point of a small, sharp knife.  If the
juices that run out are slightly pink, cook for another 5 to 10
minutes.
A half hour or so before the pigeons are done, bring the chicken
stock to a boil in a 2 to 3 quart saucepan over high heat.  Stirring
constantly, add the reserved fireek mixture and bring to a boil
again. Reduce the heat to low, cover tightly, and simmer for 30
minutes, or until the grains are tender and have absorbed all the
liquid.
To serve, arrange the pigeons on a heated platter and remove the
trussing strings and skewers.  Moisten the pigeons with the liquid
remaining in the casserole, and garnish the platter with parsley.
Fluff the fireek with a fork and serve it separately in a heated bowl.

Source: Time Life Series: Middle Eastern Cooking "circa '69"

MMed by: earl.cravens@salata.com Beach, CA * 310-543-0439 28.8k
(1:102/125) Submitted By MICHELLE HOWE   On   09-13-95

