Title: HERBED POTATO-CHEESE BREAD - Country Cooking
Categories: Country coo, Breads
Yield: 12 servings
1 lb String cheese (if
-unavailable, use mozzarella
-cheese)
1 tb Fresh thyme leaves
1 ts Chopped fresh rosemary
-leaves
1 lg Egg
1 ts Poppy seeds
1 c  Plus 1 T  milk
4 1/2    To 5 C unsifted all-purpose
-flour
2 pk Active dry yeast
1 tb Sugar
1 c  Mashed potatoes
1/2 c  (1 stick) butter, softened
1 ts Salt
1. In small saucepan, heat 1 C milk just until bubbles appear around
sides of pan. Remove from heat; transfer to large mixing bowl and
cool to 110F to 115F. Add 1 C flour, the yeast, and sugar; stir until
completely blended. Set aside 20 minutes-mixture will become foamy
and rise.

2. Add 3 C flour, the potatoes, butter, and salt to yeast mixture.
With wooden spoon, stir until a manageable dough forms. Turn dough
out onto floured surface and knead, adding remaining flour if
necessary, until smooth and elastic-12 to 14 minutes. (Dough should
be moist but not sticky.)

3. Wash, dry, and oil the mixing bowl. Place dough in oiled bowl,
turning the dough to bring oiled side up. Cover with clean cloth; set
aside in warm place and let dough rise until double in size-about 1
flour.

4. On floured surface, roll dough into 18-inch round. Unravel string
cheese and pull thick strands apart to create thinner strands. (If
using mozzarella cheese, cut into 1/4-inch cubes.) Combine cheese
with thyme and rosemary; mound cheese-and-herb mixture in center of
dough round, leaving about a 6 inch border of dough. Gently pull up
edge of dough and bring to center, allowing dough to fold in a spiral
fashion, covering cheese-and-herb mixture. Pinch ends of dough at
center to close bread and create a "topknot." Transfer dough to large
greased baking sheet. Cover with clean cloth and let dough rise 45
minutes.

5. Heat oven to 350'F. In small bowl, beat together egg and remaining
1 T milk. Brush top of dough with egg mixture and sprinkle with poppy
seeds. Bake 55 to 60 minutes or until bread is golden brown and
center is firm. Cool bread 20 minutes on wire rack before slicing.
Serve warm.

Country Cooking/Summer/94  Scanned & fixed by Di and Gary

