Title: HORS D'OEUVRES PROVENCALE - Country Cooking
Categories: Country coo, Appetizers, Vegetables
Yield: 8 servings
White Bean Salad
-(recipe follows)
Fresh sage sprigs (opt.)
Roasted Sweet Peppers
-(recipe follows)
Baby Artichoke Hearts
-(recipe follows)
1. Several hours before serving, prepare Roasted Sweet Peppers, Baby
Artichoke Hearts, and White Bean Salad (recipes follow).

2. To serve, arrange Roasted Sweet Peppers, Baby Artichoke Hearts, and
White Bean Salad on chilled serving platter. Garnish with sage
sprigs, if desired. if not using immediately, refrigerate arranged
platter until 20 minutes before serving.

Roasted Sweet Peppers: Heat oven to 400'F. Brush 1 T olive oil over 2
sweet red peppers, 2 sweet green peppers, and 2 sweet yellow peppers.
Place peppers on baking sheet and roast, turning several times, 25
minutes or until peppers soften slightly and skins blacken. With
tongs, place peppers into large brown paper bag; close bag and set
aside 30 niinutes. Skin, core, and cut peppers into thick strips. In
medium-size bowl, combine pepper strips with 1/4 C extra extra olive
oil, 1 T lemon juice, 1 T chopped fresh sage leaves, 1/4 t salt, and
1/4 t ground black pepper. Cover and refrigerate until chilled.

Baby Artichoke Hearts: Remove tough outer leaves from 10 baby arti-
chokes; cut each artichoke in half and scrape out spiny centers or
"chokes." In heavy 2 1/2-quart saucepan, combine 6 C water, artichoke
hearts, 1 lemon, cut in half and squeezed into pan, and 1 bay leaf
and heat to boiling; cook artichokes 15 to 20 minutes or until fork
tender. Drain artichokes well; discard lemon. In large bowl, combine
artichokes with 1/4 C olive oil, 2 T red-winc vinegar, 4 dried tomato
halves, rehydrated and cut into slivers, 1 t chopped fresh marjoram
leaves, 1 clove garlic, finely chopped, 1/4 teaspoon salt, and 1/4 t
ground black pepper. Cover and refrigerate until chilled.

White Bean Salad: If using dried beans, at least one day before
serving, rinse 2 C dried Great Northern beans. Place beans in large
bowl; cover with cold water and let soak overnight. Drain beans,
place in heavy 2 1/2-quart saucepan; cover with water and heat to
boiling. Cover pan partially and cook over low heat until just
tender-about 45 minutes. Drain beans, place in large bowl, and stir
in 1 small red onion, thinly sliced, 1 clove garlic, finely chopped,
1/4 C olive oil, 2 T finely chopped fresh parsley, 1 tablespoon
balsamic vinegar, 1 tablespoon lemon juice, 1 T finely chopped fresh
rosemary leaves, 1/2 t ground black pepper, and 1/2 t salt. Cover and
refrigerate until chilled.

Country Cooking/Summer/94  Scanned & fixed by Di and Gary

