Title: Lamb, Raisin, & Bean Polov <Pilaf>
Categories: Ussr, Pasta/rice, Asian, Main dish, Meats
Yield: 6 servings
1 c  Lamb stock or beef stock
1/4 c  Cinnamon ground
1/4 ts Turmeric ground
1/4 ts Nutmeg grated fine
15 tb Butter melted
1/2 c  Raisins
12 ea Dates pitted diced 1/4"
1/4 c  Water
1 c  Dried white beans
1 ts Salt
2 c  Basmati rice
1/4 c  Olive oil
1 3/4 lb Lamb boneless cubed 1"
1 c  Onion chopped coarsely
1/2 ts Saffron threads crushed
2 tb Water warm
MMMMM-------------------------EGG CRUST------------------------------
1 c  Basmati saffron rice
4 ea Eggs large
EGG CRUST DIRECTIONS: Beat the eggs in a large bowl & mix with the
rice. Set aside until needed. POLOV DIRECTIONS: Soak the beans
overnight. rinse them well and place in a large heavy pot. Add 3 cups
of water and bring to a boil. Reduce heat, cover, & simmer for 1 hour
being sure to skim often. Rinse the 3 cups of rice then place in a
large bowl. Barely cover with lukewarm water, add 1 teaspoon salt,
then let rice soak for 1 hour. Drain beans and set aside. Heat oil in
a large skillet, add the meat, onions, & garlic, brown meat and
onions/garlic for approx. 10 minutes. Mix the saffron with 2
tablespoons of water add to the meat, season wioth salt & pepper to
taste, add the stock, cinnamon, turmeric, nutmeg, etc. bring to a
boil, reduce heat to low, cover, and simmer for 1 1/2 hrs. Heat 3
tablespoons of butter in a small skillet overmedium-low heat, add the
raisins & dates and cook until softened. remove form heat set aside.
Bring 3 qts. of water to a boil in a large pot add salt pour in the
rinsed rice, allow to boil while stirring for 8 minutes. Remove from
heat and drain. The rice will still be hard and not completely
cooked. Rinse with cold water. Mix 4 tablespoons of melted butter &
1/4 cup of warm water, pour into a large heatproof, flat-bottomed,
casserole with a tight-fitting lid. Place the crust into the
casserole being sure that it covers the bottom completely. Spread 1
cup of rice over the crust, then alayer of meat then a layer of
beans, then a lyer of dtes & raisins repeat until all ingredients
have been used.Top with remianing rice then drizzle 5 tablespoons of
butter over this layer of rice. Pour the remaining stock over the
this layer of ruce as well. Poke 6 -7 holes into the top layer of
rice with the handle of a woodedn spoon. Wrap the casserole lid with
a linen or cotton cloth. Be sure not to use a terry cloth towel as it
will absorb the steam. Place the lid tightly on the casserole and
cook over a med-high heat for 5 minutes, reduce rthe heat to low and
steam the casserole for 40 minutes. Stir the remaining butter in a
small bowl with the remaining saffron. remove the polov from the
heat, let stand for 5 minutes, remove 1 cup of rice form the top
layer of the polov and toss with the saffron-butter mixture then
replace on the top of the polov. serve at once. * NOTE: In other
parts of Central Asia this dish is made with red beans and I have it
made with beef, horse, camel, chicken, and venison for the meat
instead of the lamb. It is excellent anyway it comes. ORIGIN: Mira
Palasuravaev, Golden Yurt Inn, Tashkent Oblast, Uzbekhistan, circa
1994 Submitted By DON HOUSTON   On   09-01-95

