Title: LAYERED CRAB SALAD - GH_9407
Categories: Salads, Good housek
Yield: 4 servings
2 tb Mayonnaise
1 tb Chopped parsley
1/8 ts Pepper
Salt
1 md Avocado
1/2 lb Mixed baby greens
-or mixed salad greens
2 ts White wine vinegar
1 c  Chicken broth
1/3 c  Cotiscous
-(precooked semolina)
1 sm Cucumber
1 md Tomato
1    16oz container lump crabmeat
Salad oil
1 sm Onion, minced
2 tb White wine
ABOUT 1 HOUR BEFORE SERVING:

1. In 1-quart saucepan over high heat, heat chicken broth to boiling.
Stir in couscous; cover and remove saucepan from heat. Let couscous
stand 5 minutes. Remove cover; let couscous cool slightly.

2. Meanwhile, cut unpeeted cucumber lengthwise in half; with spoon,
scoop out seeds. Dice cucumber. Seed and dice tomato. In medium bowl,
combine couscous with cucumber and tomato.

3. Pick over crabmeat to remove any pieces of shell or cartilage.
Place crabmeat in another bowl. In small skillet over medium-high
heat, in 1 tablespoon hot salad oil, cook onion until tender and very
lightly browned; stir in white wine. Gently stir onion mixture,
mayonnaise, chopped parsley, pepper, and V,teaspoon salt into
crabmeat in bowl.

4. Assemble salad: With can opener, remove both ends from an empty
food can that is about 3 inches in diameter and at least 3 inches
tall to make a hollow cylinder. (If you don't have an empty can,
remove contents from a full one and save for use another day.) Wash
and dry cylinder.

5. Cut avocado in half, discard seed. Remove peel from avocado
halves; cut each half crosswise into thin slices. Place can cylinder
in center of a dinner plate; spoon one-fourth of couscous mixture
into cylinder; gently press with back of spoon. Top couscous with
one-fourth of avocado slices, then one-fourth of crab mixture,
pressing with back of spoon after each layer. While holding layers
down with back of spoon, lift cylinder off layered salad. Repeat with
remaining couscous mixture, avocado slices, and crab salad on 3 more
dinner plates.

6. Place mixed baby greens in lg bowl; toss with white wine vinegar,
1 T salad oil, and 1/4 t  salt. Arrange greens around crab salad.

Each serving: About 440 calories, 23 9 fat, I1 8 mg cholesterol, 965
mg sodium.

Good Housekeeping/July'94/scanned & fixed by DP & GG

