Title: Lemon Strawberry Sponge Roll
Categories: Cake/cookie, Desserts, Fruit
Yield: 16 servings
MMMMM----------------------------CAKE---------------------------------
2 tb Lemon juice
3/4 c  Flour
3 tb Flour
1 tb Powdered sugar -- rounded
3    Whole eggs -- at room temp.
3 lg Eggs -- separated
15 tb Sugar
2 ts Lemon zest -- grated
1 1/2 ts Vanilla extract
MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
3 tb Lemon juice
4 tb Unsalted butter -- cut into
-1" chunks
10    Strawberries -- sliced 1/4"
-thick
4 lg Egg yolks
1/3 c  Sugar
1 1/2 tb Sugar
1/4 ts Gelatin powder, unsweetened
1/4 c  Lemon juice
MMMMM--------------------------TOPPING-------------------------------
6    Whole strawberries
1 c  Whipped cream
Preheat the oven to 350.  Line a jellyroll pan (15 x 10) with waxed
paper that has been greased lightly with butter.  For the cake, mix
the whole eggs and the 3 yolks in a medium size mixing bowl with an
electric mixer on medium high speed until blended.  Add 11 tbsp sugar
and the lemon zest and beat the mixture on high speed until it is
pale and thick, about 3 1/2 minutes.  Stop the mixer several times to
scrape the bowl with a rubber spatula.  Beat in the vanilla and the
lemon juice.  Fold in the flour with a rubber spatula until it is
incorporated.  Beat the egg whites in another mixing bowl with the
mixer on medium high speed until frothy, about 30 seconds.  Gradually
add the remaining 4 tbsp sugar and continue beating just to soft
peaks, about 30 seconds more.  Fold the whites into the batter.  Pour
the batter into the prepared pan and tip the pan gently back and
forth so that the batter is evenly distributed.  Bake the cake on the
center oven rack until it is light golden, about 16 minutes.  Allow
the cake to cool for 10 minutes.  Sprinkle the powdered sugar.  Run a
thin knife around the edge of the cake to loosen it.  Flip the pan
upside down onto waxed paper.  Careully peel off the the waxed papper
lining from the bottom of the cake.

Roll up the cake in the waxed paper, starting from one long side,
using the waxed paper to help.  The cake should never roll onto
itself.  Twist the ends of the paper like a hard candy wrapper and
refrigerate the cake for a minimum of 3 hours.  Meanwhile, prepare
the filling:  In a small saucepan mix the egg yolks and the sugar
with a whisk until they are blended. Warm the lemon juice slightly in
another saucepan.  Add the gelatin to the lemon juice and stir to
blend.  Add the gelatin mixture to the egg yolk mixture and cook over
medium heat, stirring constantly with a wooden spoon, until the
mixture thickens, about 3 minutes.  Remove the lemon curd from the
stove and strain it into a small bowl.  Add the butter, and stir
until blended.  Allow the lemon curd to cool for 20 minutes, stirring
occasionally.  Puncture a piece of plastic wrap in several places,
and use it to cover the surface of the filling.  Allow the filling to
set at room temperature until it is of spreading consistency, 30 to
40 minutes. When the filling is set, remove the cake roll from the
fridge and unroll it. Spread the filling evenly over the cake but
leave a 1" strip along one long side uncovered.  Distribute the
sliced strawberries evenly toward the filling.  Roll the cake toward
the clean strip, peeling the waxed paper off as you roll.  Put the
roll in a fresh piece of waxed paper or plastic wrap and refrigerate
it for several hours. Just before serving, transfer the cake to a
long serving tray and frost it with the whipped cream. Place the
whole strawberries, ponts up, on top of the log.

: All Butter Cookbook
Recipe By

Date: 08-27-95 (18:18) (19)
From: Meg Antczak
(E)Cooking

