Title: LENTIL & HERB STUFFED TOMATOES & PEPPERS - House Beautifu
Categories: House beaut, Side dish, Vegetables
Yield: 6 servings
-food stores
Water
4 tb Plus 1/2 t extra-virgin
-olive oil
3 lg Firm tomatoes, seeded and
-well drained, tops removed
-and reserved
3 lg Green peppers, cut in half
-lengthwise, cored and
-seeded
1 lb French dried lentils, rinsed
-and picked over (other
-types of lentils can be
-used, however cooking times
-may vary)
6 tb Finely chopped yellow onion
2 tb Finely chopped garlic cloves
1 tb Fresh thyme leaves
1 tb Chopped fresh rosemary
2    Morga vegetable bouillon
-cubes, available at health
MMMMM-------------------------GARNISHES------------------------------
-fresh thyme sprigs;
6    Raw mushrooms;
Fresh rosemary sprigs
1 lb Fresh steamed spinach;
Roasted garlic cloves;
1 lb Fresh haricots verts,
-steamed, in vinaigrette;
MMMMM-----------------------HARICOTS VERTS----------------------------
2 tb Freshly squeezed lemon juice
1    Garlic clove, peeled &
-crushed
1 lb Haricots verts or small
-string beans
1/2 c  Extra-virgin olive oil
Prepare lentils: In a saucepan add lentils, onion, garlic, thyme,
rosemaq, bouillon cubes and enough water to cover and bring to a
boil. Reduce heat and simmer for 15 to 20 minutes or until tender but
not mushy. Drain lentils, toss with 4 T  olive oil and set aside.

Lightly oil a small baking dish with remaining oil. Stuff tomatoes
with lentil mixture, top with reserved tomato tops, place in prepared
dish and set aside.

In a large saucepan parboil peppers in boiling water for 5 minutes or
until barely tender. Drain.

Stuff peppers with lentil mixture, place in a small baking dish and
barely cover the bottom with water.

Bake stuffed tomatoes and peppers in a preheated 350' oven for 15 to
20 minutes, or until vegetables are soft but hold their shape. Check
tomatoes after 10 minutes.

Prepare garnishes:

Spinach: In a vegetable steamer, steam well-washed spinach leaves over
boiling water for.about 1 minute or until wilted.

Garlic: Tightly wrap a small whole head of garlic in a sheet of
aluminum foil and bake in a preheated 350' oven for 30 minutes.
Unwrap package, separate and peel garlic cloves.

Haricots Verts: In a vegetable steamer, steam haricots verts over
boiling water 2 minutes or until al dente and place in a serving bowl.

In a small bowl mix together olive oil, lemon juice and garlic, pour
over haricots verts and toss. Serve hot or at room temperature.

To serve: On warm dinner plates place baked tomatoes on a bed of
blanched spinach with roasted garlic pieces and fresh sprigs of
thyme; serve baked peppers with haricots verts, raw mushrooms and
fresh sprigs of rosemary. Serves 6.

House Beautiful/April/94  Scanned & fixed by DP & GG

