Title: LIME CHIFFON CAKE - Country Cooking
Categories: Country coo, Desserts, Cake/cookie
Yield: 12 servings
1 tb Finely grated lime rind
8 lg Egg whites, at room temp.
1/2 ts Cream of tartar
Lime Frosting, opt.
-(recipe follows)
Candied Lime Peel, opt.
-(recipe follows)
2 1/4 c  Sifted cake flour
1 1/4 c  Sugar
1 tb Baking powder
1/4 ts Salt
4 lg Egg yolks
1/2 c  Vegetable oil
1/2 c  Water
1/4 c  Lime juice
1. Heat oven to 325'F. In medium-size bowl, stir together cake flour,
sugar, baking powder, and salt.

2. Make well in center of flour mixture. Add egg yolks, oil, water,
lime juice, and lime rind to well. Beat with electric mixer on medium
speed until lime batter is smooth.

3. Wash and dry beaters. In large bowl, combine egg whites and cream
of tartar. Beat on high speed until very stiff peaks form.

4. Very gently fold lime batter into egg whites until uniformly
combined. Turn into ungreased 10-inch tube pan with removable bottom.

5. Bake 65 to 70 minutes or until cake springs back when lightly
touched. invert pan over funnel or bottle and cool completely.

6. if desired, prepare opt. Lime Frosting and Candied Lime Peel
(recipes follow). When cake is cool, carefully loosen around pan with
small metal spatula. Remove side of pan. Loosen center and bottom;
remove bottom of pan.

7. Place cake, right side up, on serving plate. If desired, spread
top with Lime Frosting, allowing some to drip down the side. Top with
Candied Lime Peel, if desired.

Lime Frosting: In small bowl, stir together 1 C confectioners' sugar,
2 t fresh lime juice, and 1 drop green food coloring until smooth.

Candied Lime Peel: Carefully peel 2 large limes in a long spiral.
Scrape any membrane from back of peel. Trim peel into 1/4-inch-wide
strips, leaving them as long as possible. In small saucepan, heat 1/2
C sugar and 1/4 C water to boiling. Add lime peel, several strips at
a time; simmer 1 minute until glazed. With fork, remove to waxed
paper; cool.

Country Cooking/Summer/94  Scanned & fixed by Di and Gary

