Title: LIME CHIFFON TART - Bon Appetit
Categories: Bon appetit, Desserts, Pie/tart, Fruit
Yield: 8 servings
MMMMM---------------------------CRUST--------------------------------
3 tb Sugar
1 tb Ice water
1    Egg yolk
1 c  All purpose flour
1 tb Grated lime peel
1/4 tb Salt
5 tb Unsalted butter
MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
1    1-pint basket fresh
-blueberries
1/2 c  Chilled whipping cream,
-whipped to peaks
Additional fresh blueberries
Lime peel julienne
1 1/2 tb Unflavared gelatin
2 tb Cold water
1/2 c  Plus 1 T sugar
1/4 c  Fresh lime juice
2 lg Eggs, separated, room temp.
2 tb Grated lime peel
For crust: Mix flour, lime peel and salt in large bowl. Add butter
and cut in until mixture resembles coarse meal. Stir sugar, water and
yolk in small cup until sugar dissolves. Add to flour mixture and
toss until dough begins to come together. Turn dough out onto lightly
floured surface. Gather into ball; flatten into disk. Wrap in plastic
and refrigerate at least 1 hour. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead.)

Preheat oven to 400'F. Roll dough out on lightly floured surface to
thickness of 1/8 inch. Transfer dough to 9-inch-diametcr tart pan with
removable bottom. Trim edges, leaving 1/4-inch overhang. Press
overhang 1/4 inch above rim of pan. Line tart with foil. Fill with
dried beans or pie weights. Bake 10 minutes. Remove dried beans and
foil and bake until crust is golden brown, about 20 minutes. Cool.

For filling: Sprinkle gelatin over cold water in small bowl. Let
stand 15 minutes to soften. Place bowl in saucepan of simmering water
and stir until gelatin dissolves. Remove from water.

Stir 1/2 C sugar, lime juice, yolks and 2 T lime peel in top of double
boiler over simmering water until hot to touch, about 3 minutes; do
not boil. Add gelatin mixture and stir to blend. Transfer to bowl.
Place bowl over larger bowl filled with ice and water and stir until
mixture thickens and begins to mound on spoon, about 5 minutes.
Remove from over water. Using electric mixer, beat whites in medium
bowl until just beginning to peak. Gradually add remaining 1 T sugar
and beat to soft peaks. Fold whites into lime mixture.

Sprinkle 1 pint berries over bottom of tart. Immediately spoon
filling over berries, covenng completely. Chill until set, at least 3
and up to 8 hours.

Spoon whipped cream into pastry bag fitted with medium star tip. Pipe
cream decoratively around edge of tart. Garnish tart with additional
berries and lime peel julienne.

Bon Appetit/August/89  Scanned & fixed by Di and Gary

