Title: LINZER TART - House Beautiful
Categories: House beaut, Desserts, Cake/cookie, Pie/tart
Yield: 8 servings
1 tb Cocoa powder
1 c  Unsalted butter, at room
-temperature
3/4 c  Granulated sugar
1    Egg
1 ts Pure vanilla extract
1 c  Raspberry preserves
1 c  Whole toasted hazelnuts,
-ground (makes about
-1 1/4 C), see note
2 c  All-purpose flour
1 ts Baking powder
1 ts Ground cinnmnon
1/2 ts Salt
Note: To toast hazelnuts, place nuts in a single layer on a cookie
sheet and bake in a preheated 350'F oven for 15 minutes or until
lightly colored and skins begin to blister. Wrap the nuts in a
kitchen towel and rub between the palms of your hands to remove the
outer skins. Grind the nuts in a food processor by pulsing the
machine on and off to obtain a medium grind. Do not over-process. Set
aside.

In a medium bowl, whisk together flour, baking powder, cinnamon, salt
and cocoa powder. Set aside.

In a large bowl, with a hand mixer, cream butter and sugar together
until light and fluffy. Add hazelnuts and mix to combine. Beat in egg
and vanilla. Scrape down the sides of the bowl with a rubber spatula
and mix again briefly.

With the mixer set on low speed, add the dry ingredients in 3 parts,
scraping down the sides of the bowl after each addition. When the
flour mixture is completely incorporated, form the dough into a ball
and cover in plastic wrap. Refrigerate dough for 4 hours or overnight.

Remove dough from refrigerator and let sit at room temperature until
soft. Form the dough into a disk and cut into quarters. Pat 2 of the
quarters into the bottom of an ungreased 10-inch tart pan with a
removable bottom. Pat the dough out to a 1/4-inch thickness to within
1/2 inch of the outer edge of the pan.

Using another quarter of the dough, roll about 28 walnut-sized balls,
about 1-inch diameter, between the floured palms of your hand. Place
these balls around the edge of the tart pan.

Form the remainder of the dough into a rectangle and roll it between 2
sheets of wax paper to form a rectangle that is approximately 8
inches long by 4 inches wide and about 1/4-inch thick. Place the tart
pan and the rolled dough in the refrigerator for about 1 hour or
until firm.

Spread the jam evenly over the bottom of the tart. Remove 1 sheet of
the waxed paper from the chilled dough, and with a pizza or pastry
cutter cut 6 1/2-inch-wide strips of dough. Peel off the wax paper
and place 3 of the strips over the jam in a lengthwise direction,
spacing them out evenly and allowing any extra dough to drape over
the sides. Place the other three strips on top, in a crosswise
direction to create a lattice pattern. Do not attempt to weave the
strips. Trim the strips just at the edges so that they meet the balls
neatly.

Bake the tart for 60 to 70 minutes in a preheated 350'F oven until
the jam bubbles and the dough begins to color. Cool for 15 minutes on
a rack. Remove the tart ring and cool completely. Serves 8 to 10.

House Beautiful/March/94  Scanned & fixed by DP & GG

