Title: Mama's Cotton Candy
Categories: Candies, Information
Yield: 1 info
1 pn Cream of Tartar
1 ts Glucose
4 c  Sugar
2 c  Water
Spinning sugar simply consists of drawing hot sugar, which has been
boiled to a hard crack, into fine strands which will harden
immediately and retain their form. Dissolve the sugar in the water
while heating and stirring. Cook to 280F, or to the soft crack stage.
Then add the cream of tartar and glucose and continue cooking to
310F, or to the hard-crack stage. Remove quickly from the heat and to
prevent the sugar from changing color set the pan in cold water. Then
remove and place in warm water. Oil a rolling pin or the blade of a
large knife and holf it out straight with the left hand; then with
the right hand, dip a warm spoon into the sirup and shake it backward
and forward over the rolling pin. The sugar will fall across the pin
in long threads. Continue the operation until enough spun sugar is
obtained, then cut off the ends and press as desired into molds, or
shape. Another method of spinning the sugar is to oil the handles of
two wooden spoons and to fasten them in drawers or under weights with
the ends projecting over the edge of a table. Cover the floor
underneath with clean paper or several large baking pans. Then take a
large fork, two forks, an egg beater or a bunch of wires and dip into
the sirup. Move quickly backward and forward over the oiled spoon
handles. Continue until there is a mass of sugar threads resembling
silk. The threads may be made either fine or coarse by moving the
forks slowly or quickly. If in the course of spinning the sirup
becomes too firm to use, warm the pan over a low heat and continue
the spinning process. The sirup may be colored, if desired. Spun
sugar is used for decorating candies and cakes and for garnishing
desserts. It must be made and kept in a very dry atmosphere and used
as soon as possible.

SOURCE: Culinary Arts Institute Encyclopedia Cookbook, published 1945
PAPER OR SEVERAL LARGE BAKING PANS. tHEN TAKE A LARGE FORK
Submitted By KATHRYN CONE   On   08-21-95

