Title: Marinated-Vegetable Kabobs - Country Living
Categories: Vegetables, Country liv
Yield: 24 kabobs
2    Large sweet yellow peppers
2    Large sweet green peppers
2    Large sweet red peppers
24    8-inch wooden skewers
Tarragon Marinade (separate
-recipe)
Fresh thyme sprigs (opt.)
48    White pearl onions, peeled
24    Red pearl onions, peeled
-(if not available, use
-more white pearl onions)
1    Small (1 lb) eggplant, cut
-into 3/4-inch cubes
-(at least 72 cubes)
1. In 4-quart saucepan, heat 3 inches water to boiling. Add white and
red pearl onions; cook 5 minutes. Remove with slotted spoon and
transfer to bowl. Set aside.

2. Add eggplant cubes to boiling water, cook 1 1/2 minutes. Drain and
rinse under cold water to Cool slightly. Pat dry with paper towels
and set aside.

3. Remove stems and seeds from yellow peppers. Cut peppers into
quarters; cut each quarter into 4 pieces. (You wil1 have 32 pieces of
yellow pepper.) Repeat with green and red peppers.

4. To assemble vegetable kabobs: Beginning with one piece of pepper,
alternately thread 4 pieces of pepper, 3 eggplant cubes, 2 white pearl
onions, and 1 red pearl onion onto each skewer.

5. Prepare Tarragon Marinade. Brush kabobs with marinade and arrange
in rows on baking sheets. Cover tightly with plastic wrap and
refrigerate kabobs 1 hour to marinate. Reserve any remaining marinade.

6. Heat oven to 400'F. Remove plastic wrap from kabobs. Bake kabobs 7
to 8 minutes or until vegetables begin to brown on bottom. Rotate
kabobs and bake 7 to 8 minutes longer or until al1 sides are browned
and peppers are tender-crisp.

7. Transfer vegetable kabobs to platter and drizzle with any reserved
Tarragon Marinade. Garnish platter with thyme sprigs, if desired.
Serve immediately or Cool kabobs to room temperature and refrigerate
until ready to serve.

Tarragon Marinade, In small bowl, combine 3 T tarragon vinegar, 1 T
red-wine vinegar, 2 t sugar, 1/2 t salt, and 1/4 t ground black
pepper. Whisk in 1/3 C olive oil.

Country Living/June/90 Scanned & fixed by DP & GG

