Title: Market Forms Of Fish
Categories: Information, Fish/seafoo
Yield: 1 servings
Text Only
Before You Begin

Before you begin cooking fish there is some general information you
should know. Awareness of the market forms of fish, storage hints,
and cooking techniques can mean the difference between mere tasty
dishes and meals of unmatched delicacy.

Market Forms of Fish

Fish is available in many forms at the market.  Some can be purchased
ready to cook, while others require special preparation. Below is a
list of the market forms of fish.

Whole or round -- This type is marketed just as it came from the sea.
Before cooking, the fish must be scaled and eviscerated (internal
organs removed).  Usually the head, tail, and fins are removed prior
to cooking.

Drawn -- The viscera and entrails are removed.  The fish must be
scaled. Again the head, fins, and tail are usually removed before
cooking.

Dressed or pan-dressed -- The viscera are removed. The head, tail,
and fins are usually removed.  The fish is scaled, free of blood, and
ready to cook.

Steaks -- Steaks are cross-section pieces cut from a large dressed or
whole fish, commonly 1/2" to 1 inch thick. A cross- section of the
backbone is the only bone in the steak.

Fillets -- Fillets are slices cut lengthwise from the sides of the
fish. They contain no bones or other wastes, however the skin, with
scales removed, may be left on one side. A single fillet is the flesh
cut from only one side of the fish. Butterfly fillet is the name for
two single fillets held together by uncut flesh and skin.

Portions or sticks -- These are pieces cut lengthwise or crosswise
from fillets or steaks.  Most often they come in equal size portions
about 1 inch wide to 3 inches long.

Canned -- Several varieties of fish are canned.  Tuna, salmon,
mackerel, and fish products are processed in this manner. They can be
stored on a shelf and are ready to use.

About the Author
:

Adam Starchild has combined business travel with discovering the
delights of native dishes from Hawaii and Hong Kong to Russia and the
Caribbean.  He is the author of The Seafood Heritage Cookbook (Cornell
Maritime Press), co-author of another seafood cookbook, and the
author of a number of food and cooking articles.
Submitted By BARRY WEINSTEIN   On   08-30-95

