Title: Melvin Larocque's Bannock
Categories: Breads, Canadian, Fruit, Native amer
Yield: 4 servings
1/2 c  Raisins, currants or dried
-blueberries or cranberries
-[optional]
2 tb Sugar [if fruit added]
3 c  All purpose flour
1 ts Salt
2 tb Baking powder
1/4 c  Lard; melted *
1 1/2 c  Water
Bannock, a simple type of scone, originated in Scotland and was made
originally of oatmeal. The first pioneers taught it to the Indians
who did not previously have leavened breads and made unleavened
breads from corn and nut meals, which were a very minor part of their
diet [breads not corn and nuts]. It has spread and adapted from
there, with many regional variations.

It was cooked in pioneer days in cast iron frying pans over open
fires. Toutons use a similar dough where small rings are deep fried
like doughnuts. Variations in flours and the additional of dried or
fresh fruit make this bread a popular choice of hunters and campers
today. Oven baking has become an alternative to the cast iron frying
pan when made at home. The dough can also be wrapped around green
de-barked sticks driven into the ground beside the camp fire.

* Melted shortening, butter or margarine can be used but the taste
will be altered. Lard is traditional.

Measure flour, salt, baking powder [and dried fruit and sugar] into
large bowl. Stir to mix. Make a well in the center and pour melted
lard and water into the flour mixture. Stir with fork to make a ball.
Turn out onto a working surface. Knead gently about 10 times. Do not
over work the dough and let the gluten develop. Pat into a flat
circle 1 inch thick. Cook in a greased frying pan over medium heat
allowing 15 minutes each side. Use two lifters for easy turning.
Serve hot with butter. Break it off in chunks or slice into wedges
with a knife. May also be baked on greased baking sheet at 375 for 25
to 30 minutes.

This tastes best in a frying pan outdoors over a wood fire.

Variations:

Substitute 1 cup whole wheat flour and/or 1/2 cup oatmeal for up to 1
1/2 cups of white flour.

Add fresh fruit instead of dried.
Submitted By JIM WELLER   On   09-05-95

