Title: MIXED-SEAFOOD PIZZA - Country Living
Categories: Country liv, Fish/seafoo, Pizza
Yield: 1 pizza
1/2 lb Medium shrimp, shelled and
-deveined
1 tb Lemon juice
1 tb Red-wine vinegar
1/4 ts Freshly ground black pepper
Basic Pizza Dough
Tomato Sauce (recipe
-follows)
1 tb Capers
8    Ripe olives, pitted and
-chopped
1 tb Chopped fresh parsley (opt.)
3/4 lb Fresh or frozen calamari
-(squid), thawed if frozen
1 qt Water
1 1/2 ts Salt
1 ts Baking soda
2 tb Olive oil
2    Cloves garlic, finely
-chopped
1/2 ts Dried oregano leaves
1/2 ts Dried marjoram leaves
1/8 ts Crushed red pepper
1/2 lb Bay scallops
1. Prepare mixed-seafood filling: To clean calamari, pull ten- tacles
and head from body of each squid. Cut off and reserve tentacles;
discard head and ink sac. Remove and discard thin, clear cartilage
from body. Rinse squid and tentacles and cut each body into 1/2-inch
rings. Cut tentacles in half if they are very long.

2. In 2-quart saucepan, heat water to boiling over high heat. Add 1 t
salt, the baking soda, and calamari. Reduce heat to low; cook
calamari 2 minutes. Drain calamari in colander and rinsc with cold
water to cool. Place calamari in medium-size bowl.

3. In large skillet, heat 1 T  olive oil over medium heat. Add garlic,
oregano, marjoram, and crushed red pepper. saute 2 minutes. Add
scallops and shrimp and cook, stirring occasionally, 3 to 4 minutes,
or until shrimp are pink and firm and scallops are opaque.

4. Transfer scallop and shrimp mixture, including all pan juices, to
bowl with calamari. Add remaining 1 T olive oil, the lemon juice,
vinegar, the remaining t salt, and the black pepper; toss to combine.
Refrigerate seafood mixture to marinate while preparing pizza dough
and Tomato Sauce.

5. Prepare Basic Pizza Dough. Set aside to rise.

6. Meanwhile, prepare Tomato Sauce.

7. To assemble and bake pizza, lightly oil a 13- by 9-inch baking
pan. Heat oven to 450'F. Roll out pizza dough to 15- by 11-inch
rectangle. Line pan with dough, leaving a 1-inch rim of dough on all
sides. Let dough rest 10 minutes.

8. Reserve 3 T  Tomato Sauce. Spread remaining sauce on top of dough.
Bake pizza on lower oven rack 12 minutes. Meanwhile, drain liquid
from seafood into large skillet. Cook until liquid is reduced to a
syrup that barely coats skillet. Pour over seafood mixture; toss to
coat.

9. Top pizza with seafood mixture; brush reserved tomato sauce onto
seafood. Sprinkle top of pizza with capers and olives and bake 5 to 7
minutes longer or until pizza crust is well browned. Garnish with
parsley, if desired, and serve immediately.

Tomato Sauce: In large skillet, heat 1 T  olive oil over medium heat.
Add 1/2 C  chopped onion, 1 clove garlic, chopped, 1/4 t fennel
seeds. 1/4 t dried oregano leaves, and 1/8 t crushed red pepper.
Saute until onion is transparent. Meanwhile, drain 1 16-oz can whole
tomatoes, reserving 2 T tomato juice. Seed tomatoes. In food
processor, with chopping blade, process tomatoes until coarsely
chopped. Add processed tomatoes, the reserved tomato juice, 1/4 t
salt, and 1/4 t freshly ground black pepper to onion mixture. Cook,
stir- ring occasionally, 6 to 8 minutes or until sauce thickens and
liquid evaporates. Country Living/October/90 Scanned & fixed by DP &
GG

