Title: MUSHROOM AND VEAL COBBLER  - Country Living
Categories: Country liv, Main dish, Soup/stew
Yield: 6 servings
3    Cloves garlic, chopped
1 tb Chopped fresh OR
1 ts Dried rosemary leaves
1 ts Ground black pepper
1/2 ts Salt
3 c  Plus 3 T water
Herbed Cobbler dough (recipe
-follows)
2 tb Cornstarch
1    Large egg yolk beaten with
1 ts Milk (opt.)
3    Slices (3 oz) thick-cut
-bacon, chopped
1 lb Veal stew meat, cut into
-1-inch cubes
1 tb Olive oil
1    Large onion, chopped
3    Carrots, sliced 1/2 inch
-thick
2    Leeks, chopped
1 pk (10-oz) white mushrooms,
-chopped
1/4 lb Cremini mushrooms, chopped
1. In 5-quart Dutch oven over medium heat, cook bacon until browned
and crisp. With lotted spoon, transfer to large plate and reserve.

2. Increase heat to high; add veal cubes to bacon drippings in pot
and cook just until browned on all sides-about 4 minutcs. With
slotted spoon, remove veal to plate with bacon and reserve.

3. Reduce heat to medium and add olive oil to pot; add onion and
saute 5 minutes. Stir in carrots, lceks, white and Cremini mushrooms,
garlic, rosemary, pepper, and salt; cook, stirring, 5 minutes.

4. Add reserved bacon and veal to pot with 3 C water; cover and heat
to boiling. Reduce heat to low and simmer 45 minutes. Meanwhile,
prepare Herbed Cobbler Dough.

5. Heat oven to 350'F. In small bowl, combine remaining 3 T water and
the cornstarch. Stir cornstarch mixture into veal mixture; heat to
boiling, stirring, until veal mixture thickens.

6. Ladle veal mixture into 1 1/2-quart casserole or deep-dish pie
plate. Top with Herbed Cobbler Dough, overlapping leaves or other
shapes slightly, allowing some open spaces for steam to escape. Brush
dough with beaten egg yolk mix- ture, if desired.

7. Place cobbler on rimmed baking sheet. Bake 30 to 35 minutes or
until topping is golden brown. Cool cobbler 10 minutes on wire rack
before serving.

Herbed Cobbler Dough: In small bowl, combine 1 C unsifted all-purpose
flour, 1 T finely chopped fresh herbs (we used rosemary and parsley),
2 t sugar, 1 t baking powder, and 1/2 t salt. With pastry blender or
2 knives, cut in 3 tablespoons butter until mixture resembles coarse
crumbs. Stir in 1/3 C  heavy cream; mix just until blended. Gather
dough into a ball. On lightly floured surface, roll dough out to
1/4-inch thickness. Using cookie cutter or stencil, cut into leaves
or other shapes; re-roll scraps and cut more shapes. Refrigerate
dough shapes until ready to use.

Country Living/Sept/93  Scanned & fixed by DP & GG

