Title: MUSHROOM AND BARLEY SALAD - Country Living
Categories: Country liv, Salads, Dress/stuff
Yield: 6 servings
-mushrooms (we used oyster,
-chanterelle, and hedgehog),
-stemmed
1/2 c  Yellow whole-kernel corn
Dressing (recipe follows)
6 c  Mixed salad greens (we
-used mache, baby red-leaf
-and Boston lettuce, and
-arugula)
12    Cherry tomatoes, halved
Sprig fresh thyme (opt.)
2 1/2 c  Water
3/4 c  Regular pearl barley
1 ts Plus 1 T fresh thyme leaves
1/4 ts Salt
2 tb Olive oil
1    Clove garlic, finely chopped
2 oz Shiitake mushrooms,
-stemmed and sliced
1/2 ts Finely grated lemon rind
1/8 ts Ground black pepper
6 oz Assorted cultivated wild
1. In 2-quart saucepan, heat water to boiling. Add barley, 1 t thyme,
and the salt; cook, covered, 45 minutes over medium-low heat or until
barley is tender and liquid is absorbed. Spoon into medium-size bowl;
set aside to cool to room temperature.

2. In large skillet, heat oil over medium-high heat. Add garlic; saute
until golden brown. Add shiitake mushrooms, remaining 1 T thyme, the
lemon rind, and pepper; cook, stirring occasionally, until mushrooms
soften-about 5 minutes. Add remaining assorted mushrooms and cook,
stirring gently, until just tender-about 2 minutes. Set aside about
1/2 C cooked mushrooms in small bowl. Add corn to skillet and cook,
stirring, until corn is cooked-about 1 to 2 minutes. Transfer mixture
to bowl with barley.

3. Prepare Dressing; add half to barley mixture and toss gently.

4. To serve, place greens in large serving bowl or platter; spoon
barley mixture on top. Scatter reserved 1/2 C  mushrooms on top of
mixture; place cherry tomatoes around edge of bowl on top of greens.
Drizzle remaining Dressing over salad. Garnish with fresh thyme, if
desired.

Dressing: In food processor fitted with chopping blade, process 1/3 C
olive oil, 1/4 C white-wine vinegar, 1 small clove garlic, 2 T fresh
lemon juice, 1 t fresh thyme leaves, and 1/8 t salt until mixture
thickens.

Country Living/Sept/93  Scanned & fixed by DP & GG

