Title: MUSHROOM-FILLED RAVIOLI OVER PARSLEY-BASIL SAUCE 01-CC
Categories: Country coo, Pasta/rice, Main dish, Appetizers
Yield: 4 servings
MMMMM-------------------PARSLEY RAVIOLI DOUGH------------------------
2 tb Olive oil
1    Bunch large flat-leaf
-Italian parsley (about
-1/2 C leaves)
2 1/4    To 2 1/2 C unsifted all
-purpose flour
3/4 ts Salt
1/4 c  Water
2 lg Eggs or 3 lg egg whites
MMMMM----------------------MUSHROOM FILLING---------------------------
1 ts Dried oregano leaves
1/4 ts Ground black pepper
1 lg Egg
Parsley-Basil Sauce
-(recipe follows)
1 tb Vegetable oil
1/4 c  Slivered oi1-packed dried
-tomatoes (opt.)
2    Dozen medium-large mushrooms
-(about 1 1/2 inches in
-diameter)
2 tb Butter or margarine
2 tb Finely chopped onion
1/3 c  Packaged unseasoned bread
-crumbs
2 tb Grated Parmesan cheese
1 tb Chopped fresh OR
1. Prepare Parsley Ravioli Dough: In large bowl or food processor with
chopping blade, combine 2 C flour and the salt. In 1-cup measuring
cup, beat water, eggs, and oil until well mixed; stir into flour
mixture. Or, with food processor blade whirling, add egg mixture
through the feed tube. It should form a dough that balls up; if it's
too sticky, add more flour through the feed tube. On lightly floured
surface, knead dough a few minutes or just until smooth. Wrap with
plastic wrap; let dough stand 1 flour.

2. Meanwhile, remove parsley leaves from their stems. Rinse and drain
leaves well. Spread leaves out on paper towels; cover with more
towels and roll up leaves in towels. Set leaves aside.

3. Prepare Mushroom Filling: Rinse and dry mushrooms. Remove stems
from mushrooms; set aside caps. Finely chop enough stems to measure
1/4 C. In large skillet, melt butter over medium heat. Add chopped
mushrooms and onion; saute until tender. Remove from heat; stir in
bread crumbs, Parmesan cheese, oregano, and pepper until well mixed.
Stir in egg; transfer mixture to small bowl.

4. Cut Ravioli dough into 4 pieces. Dust pieces with flour; cover with
plastic wrap to keep them moist. Flatten one piece into a 4-inch
square, about 1/4-inch thick. Set the smooth roller of a pasta
machine at the widest opening (setting number 1). Dust the square
with flour and feed it through the rollers. Fold dough crosswise into
thirds; press together and reshape to a 3to 4-inch square. Insert an
open end of the square through the rollers again. Repeat rolling and
folding 8 more times, dusting with flour when necessary. After the
last rolling, the dough for Ravioli should be a smooth and elastic 9
by 4-inch rectangle.

5. Turn the dial one notch (setting number 2) so that the rollers are
closer; feed the dough through the rollers, dusting it with flour, if
necessary, to prevent it from sticking. Continue to feed the dough
through the rollers, turning the dial one notch thinner each time,
until the last or next to the last setting is reached and the dough
is as thin and as long as possible-about 32 inches long, 5 1/4 inches
wide, and 1/16 inch thick. If the dough is not as long, run it
through the last setting again.

6. Cut dough crosswise in half. Lightly press a quarter of the parsley
leaves, laying them about 1/4 inch apart, on top of one dough half.
Cover parsley topped dough with the other half of the dough and press
the layers together. Turn the pasta machine dial to widen the rollers
enough (setting number 3) to run parsley dough through easily. Turn
the dial one notch thinner (setting number 4) and roll parsley dough,
dusting with flour if necessary. Continue to turn the dial one notch
thinner (setting number 5) and roll dough until it is a long strip,
about 5 1/2 inches wide. Because of the parsley, the dough won't be
as thin as before.

7. To make ravioli, place parsley dough on lightly floured board or
surface; cut dough into 5 1/2-inch squares. (Save all trimmings and
dry them to use in soup.)

8. Fill 2 mushroom caps with some crumb mixture. Place caps, filled
sides, down, about 4 1/4, inches from the top of one pasta square,
evenly spaced apart. Brush the dough around the mushrooms with some
water; bring top end over to cover the mushrooms, forming about a 5
1/2 by 2 3/4-inch package; press gently around the caps to expel any
air pockets and to seal top dough to the bottom. With fluted pastry
cutter or knife, cut the package into two 2 3/4 inch-square ravioli.
Place the filled ravioli in one layer on a floured, cloth lined tray
or jelly-roll pan. Continue filling, folding, and cutting remaining
squares of dough to make more ravioli. Repeat with remaining 3 pieces
of dough. Let the ravioli dry, uncovered, turning occasionally, for
up to 1 flour at room temperature, or refrigerate overnight, covered
with a cloth towel and then plastic wrap.

End of part 1

Country Cooking/Summer/94  Scanned & fixed by Di and Gary

