Title: NICOISE-STYLE BULGUR SALAD - Country Living
Categories: Country liv, Salads, Nuts/grains
Yield: 4 servings
Vinaigrette (recipe follows)
1/2 lb Green beans, tips and
-strings removed if
-necessary
1/2 c  Nicoise olives (see Note)
1 lg Ripe tomato
Fresh oregano sprigs (opt.)
3 lg Eggs
2 ts Vegetable oil
2    Cloves garlic, finely
-chopped
1 1/2 c  Water
1 c  Bulgur
1/2 ts Salt
1. In 1-quart saucepan, place eggs and add enough cold water to cover
them by one inch. Heat water to boiling over high heat. Remove
saucepan from heat, cover, and let eggs stand 12 minutes. Drain eggs
and rinse with cold water. Crack and shell the hard-cooked eggs. Wrap
and refrigerate eggs.

2. In 2-quart saucepan, heat oil over medium heat. Add garlic and
saute just until golden, about 10 seconds. Add water and heat to
boiling. Stir in bulgur and salt. Remove saucepan from heat and let
bul- gur stand until all water is absorbed about 30 minutes.

3. Meanwhile, prepare Vinaigrette.

4. In 3-quart saucepan, heat 2 inches water to boiling. Add green
beans and cook until tender-crisp. Drain beans in colander and rinse
with cold water. Place beans in plastic food storage bag and
refrigerate until ready to serve.

5. Pour half the Vinaigrette over the bulgur; add olives and toss.
Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate until cold-at least 1 hour.
Refrigerate remaining Vinaigrette.

6. Just before serving, core and cut tomato into 12 wedges. Cut each
hard-cooked egg lengthwise into quarters. Spoon bulgur mixture into
center of large serving platter. Place beans around its rim. Arrange
tomato and eggs in alternate mounds over beans on platter. Garnish
buigur mixture with oregano sprigs, if desired. Shake the remaining
Vinaigrette and drizzle over eggs, tomato wedges, and beans.

Vinaigrette; In small jar with tight-fitting lid, combine 1/3 C
extra-virgin olive oil, 2 T red-wine vinegar, 1 T Dijon-style prepared
mustard, 1 T chopped fresh oregano leaves or 1 t dried oregano, 1/4 t
salt, and 1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper. Cover and shake until
well mixed.

Note: Available in specialty food stores, tiny, dark-brown Nicoise
olives are brine cured. If unavailable, substitute Kalamata, Gaeta,
or other ripe olives.

Nutritional information per serving-protein: 11 grams; fat: 28 grams@
carbohydrate: 39 grams; fiber: 10 grams; sodium: 595 milligrams;
cholesterol: 156 milligrams calories: 430.

Country Living/June/93  Scanned & fixed by DP & GG

