Title: PAAD THAI - Country Living
Categories: Country liv, Pasta/rice, Side dish
Yield: 4 servings
-chopped
16    Large shrimp, shelled and
-deveined
2    Large eggs, beaten
1 c  Fresh bean sprouts
1 tb Fresh lime juice
1/3 c  Roasted unsalted peanuts,
-finely chopped
Fresh sprigs coriander (opt)
Lime wedges (opt.)
1/2 lb Dried flat rice noodles, 1/4
-to 1/2 inch wide (see Note)
3 tb Fish sauce, or nam pla (see
-Note)
2 tb Rice vinegar
1 1/2 tb Sugar
1 ts Paprika
3 tb Vegetable oil
6    Green onions, coarsely
-chopped
3    Cloves garlic, finely
1. In large bowl, soak noodles in warm water to cover 30 to 35
minutes or until softened. (Do not soak longer as noodles will become
mushy.) Drain noodles well in colander and set aside. In small bowl,
combine fish sauce, vinegar, sugar, and paprika; set aside,

2. In large skillet or wok, heat oil over medium heat. Add onions and
garlic and stir-fry 1 minute; add shrimp and cook, stirring, just
until onions and garlic are browned and shrimp are pink and cooked
through-3 to 4 minutes. With slotted spoon, remove shrimp mixture to
colander with noodles.

3. Add eggs to skillet and cook until almost set, breaking them into
small pieces as they cook, Reduce heat to low and add noodles with
shrimp mixture, tossing to blend. Stir in fish sauce mixture and heat
3 to 4 minutes or until most of liquid evaporates. Add bean sprouts
and lime juice, tossing gently until completely combined; transfer
Paad Thai to serving platter or divide among individual serving
plates. Garnish with chopped peanuts and, if desired, coriander
sprigs and lime wedges. Serve immediately.

Note: Dried rice noodles are sold in Asian markets and health-food
stores. If unavailable, however, substitute 1/2 lb linguini, cooked
following package directions-not soaked as in Step 1.

Nam pla, or Thai fish sauce, is an amber liquid that lends a unique
saltiness to foods. Used in everything from soups and curries to
stir-fries, it is a staple in Thai cooking. Several brands are
available in this country in Asian markets and gourmet stores. Nuoc
mam, a Vietnamese fish sauce that is also widely available, may be
substituted.

Country Living/Feb/94  Scanned & fixed by DP & GG

