Title: PASTA SHELLS WITH WILD MUSHROOM MEAT RAGU - House Beautif
Categories: House beaut, Main dish, Pasta/rice
Yield: 4 servings
Salt & freshly ground black
Pepper to taste
1 1/2 lb Ripe, fresh tomatoes, finely
-chopped, or 1 1/2 lb canned
-tomatoes, preferably
-imported Italian, drained
-and finely chopped
1 c  Chicken broth, preferably
-homemade, or low-sodium
-canned
Coarse salt
1 lb Medium-sized dried shell
-shaped pasta, farfalle,
-fusilli, or orecchiette
1/2 c  Black Greek olives, pitted
-and sliced
2 oz Dried porcini mushrooms
1 tb Sweet butter
2 tb Extra-virgin olive oil
2 md Carrots, peeled and finely
-chopped
2    Garlic cloves, peeled and
-finely chopped
15    Sprigs Italian parsley,
-leaves only
1 lg Onion, peeled and finely
-chopped
1/2 lb Boneless veal shoulder,
-lean beef, larnb, or game
-meat, cut into 1/4" cubes
1/2 lb Shiitake mushrooms, cleaned
1 c  Dry red wine
In a small bowl, soak porcini mushrooms in 2 1/2 c lukewarm water for
30 minutes. Remove mushrooms with a slotted spoon and reserve.

In a 2-quart flameproof casserole over medium heat, melt butter and
olive oil. Saute carrots, garlic, parsley, and onion for 10 minutes,
stirring frequently with a wooden spoon. Add veal to the casserole
and cook until meat is browned, about 10 minutes. Add porcini and
shiitake mushrooms, stir, and cook for 10 minutes. Add the red wine,
stir, and continue to cook for 15 minutes. Season sauce with salt and
pepper and stir until well combined.

Reduce the heat to low, add tomatoes to casserole and simmer, stirring
frequently with a wooden spoon, for 30 minutes. Add 1/2 cup of broth
and cook, covered, for 15 minutes.

Add remaining broth and cook, covered, for 15 minutes. Taste and
correct seasonings. Uncover casserole and continue to cook until the
sauce has thickened, about 10 to 15 minutes.

In a large stockpot bring 6 quarts of water to a boil and add coarse
salt to taste. Add pasta and cook until al dente, about 9 to 12
minutes.

While pasta is cooking, add olives to the sauce and cook over medium
heat, uncovered, until sauce is hot, about 5 minutes.

Drain pasta, transfer to a warm bowl, and toss with sauce. Serve
immediately. Serves 4 to 6.

House Beautiful/May/94  Scanned & fixed by DP & GG

