Title: PECAN-CRUSTED CHICKEN DRUMSTICKS WITH HONEY-MUSTARD SAUCE
Categories: Country liv, Main dish, Poultry, Salsa/sauce
Yield: 12 drumsticks
-coarsely torn into pieces
4 lg Carrots
1/2 lb Sugar-snap pea pods
Honey-Mustard Sauce (recipe
-follows)
Paper Booties (opt.,
-directions follow)
12    Chicken drumsticks (about 3
-lb)
2 lg Eggs
1 tb Dijon-style prepared mustard
1/4 ts Salt
1/4 ts Cracked black pepper
1 1/2 c  Pecans
3    Slices whole-grain bread,
1. Heat oven to 400'F. Lightly oil 2 rimmed baking sheets. Rinse
chicken drumsticks; pat dry.

2. In pie plate, beat eggs, mustard, salt, and pepper until well
mixed. In food processor fitted with chopping blade, process pecans
and bread until finely chopped. Pour mixture into a 1-quart plastic
food-storage bag.

3. One at a time, roll drumsticks in egg mixture and place in bag with
pecan mixture. Shake gently until evenly coated with pecan mixture.
Arrange on oiled sheets.

4. Bake chicken 40 to 45 minutes or until golden brown and juices run
clear when drumstick is pierced with a fork.

5. Meanwhile, peel carrots; slice each lengthwise into 4 to 6 strips.
Rinse and drain sugar-snap pea pods; remove and discard stem ends and
strings. Prepare Honey-Mustard Sauce and make booties, if desired.

6. Remove drumsticks from oven; attach booties, if using, and
transfer to serving basket or platter. Arrange carrots and sugar-snap
pea pods around drumsticks; serve with Honey-Mustard Sauce.

Honey-Mustard Sauce: In 1-C glass measuring cup, combine 1/2 C honey,
1/4 C apple or orange juice, 2 tablespoons Dijon-style prepared
mustard, and 1 T cider vinegar until well blended. Transfer to
serving bowl. Makes about 1 cup.

Paper Booties: For each bootie desired, cut a 4-inch square from brown
wrapping paper. One at a time, fold squares in half gently without
creasing paper at fold. Make cuts 1/8 inch apart through fold to
within 3/4 inch of cut edges. To attach to chicken drumsticks,
carefully wrap uncut ends of paper strips around bony ends of
drumsticks and secure with tape.

Nutritional information per drumstick with carro and sugar-snap
peas-protein: 17 grams; fat: grams@ carbohydrate: 21 grams@ fiber: 3
gram sodium: 182 milligrams; cholesterol: 65 milligra calories: 291.

Country Living/June/93  Scanned & fixed by DP & GG

