Title: Pistachio Chocolate Roll - Country Living
Categories: Desserts, Chocolate, Nuts/grains, Country liv
Yield: 10 servings
MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
-chocolate chips (1 C)
1 1/2 c  Heavy cream
1/2    12-oz pk semisweet
MMMMM----------------------------CAKE---------------------------------
Chocolate Bark (recipe
-follows;(opt.)
3 tb Grand Marnier or other
-orange-flavored liqueur
1/2 c  Chopped shelled pistachios
Unshelled pistachios and
-fresh pistachios with
-their leaves (opt.)
1 c  Sifted cake Hour
1 ts Baking powder
1/4 ts Salt
4    Large eggs, at room temp.
3/4 c  Granulated sugar
1/4 c  Water
1/2 ts Almond extract
Confectioners' sugar
1. Prepare Filling: In 1-quart saucepan, combine 3/4 C cream and
chocolate chips. Cook over medium-low heat, stirring constantly,
until mixture bubbles and thickens to a thin-pudding consistency.
Pour mixture into medium-size bowl; cover and refrigerate until
cold-about 2 hours.

2. Prepare Cake: Grease and flour a 15 1/2 by 10 1/2-inch jelly-roll
pan. In small bowl, combine flour, baking powder, and salt.

3. Heat oven to 375'F. In large bowl, with electric mixer at high
speed, beat eggs until fluffy. Gradually add granulated sugar,
beating constantly, until mixture is pale yellow and very thick-about
5 minutes. Reduce speed to low; beat in water and almond extract.
Grad- ually sift flour mixture over egg mixture and with rubber
spatula, gently fold in until batter is smooth. Spread batter in
prepared pan.

4. Bake 10 to 12 minutes or until center of cake springs back when
lightly pressed with fingertip. Meanwhile, sprinkle clean cloth towel
with confectioners' sugar. When cake is done, loosen around the edges
with a small knife. Invert cake and pan onto towel; lift off pan.
With knife, trim off crisp edges of cake. Starting from one short
edge, roll up cake with towel. Place rolled cake, seam side down, on
wire rack to cool completely. Meanwhile, prepare Chocolate Bark, if
using.

5. To assemble roll: Stir remaining 1/4 C  cream into cooled
chocolate-filling mixture until no streaks of white remain. With
electric mixer, beat chocolate mixture until fluffy and stiff peaks
form. (Do not overheat; it can curdle.) Carefully unroll cake.
Sprinkle surface of cake with liqueur. Evenly spread two thirds of
chocolate filling over cake. Sprinkle filling with 7 T  chopped
pistachios. Roll up cake firmly without towel. Place cake, seam side
down, on serving platter. Spread remaining filling over outside of
cake.

6. If desired, press Chocolate Bark lengthwise over surface of log.
Sprinkle top with remaining chopped pistachios. Refrigerate roll until
serving time. Before serving, garnish platter with bowl of pistachios
and fresh pistachios with leaves, if desired.

Chocolate Bark: In 1-quart saucepan, melt four 1-oz squares semisweet
chocolate, chopped, over very low heat just until smooth, stirring
constantly. Cool until it will mound. Pour chocolate onto a small
piece of aluminum foil and shape into a 3-inch square about 1/2 inch
thick. Refrigerate just until set but not too firm. If chocolate is
too firm, it will be too brittle to cut. With small thin-bladed knife
held in a slanted position, scrape across chocolate to get thin sliv-
ers of chocolate to resemble tree bark.

Country Living/Nov/90  Scanned & fixed by DP & GG

