Title: POTATO CREPES WITH SAUSAGE AND SAGE - Country Cooking
Categories: Country coo, Vegetables, Side dish
Yield: 4 servings
1 cn (28-oz) whole tomatoes
1 ts Cornstarch
1/4 c  Red wine
1 tb Worcestershire sauce
1 ts Honey
1/2 ts Ground black pepper
1/3 c  Unsifted all-purpose flour
1/8 ts Salt
1 lg Egg
1/2 c  Milk
Light sour cream (opt.)
Fresh sage sprigs (opt.)
1 lg (1/2 lb) potato, peeled
-and quartered
1/4 c  Olive oil
1 lb Sweet Italian sausage,
-coarsely chopped
1 lg Onion, thinly sliced
2    Cloves garlic, finely
-chopped
1 tb Chopped fresh or 1 t dried
-sage
1 1/2 ts Fresh or 1/2 t dried thyme
-leaves
1. In small saucepan, cover potato quarters with water; heat to
boiling. Simmer, covered, over low heat, 10 to 12 minutes, or until
potatoes are just tender. Drain well; wrap and refrigerate until well
chilled.

2. In large skillet, heat 1 1/2 T  oil over medium heat. Add sausage
and saute until browned and cooked through. With slotted spoon,
remove sausage from skillet; set aside. Add onion to skillet, saute
until golden. Add garlic, sage, and thyme to skillet; saute 2 minutes
longer, or until garlic is golden.

3. Drain tomatoes, reserving 1/3 C liquid. Seed and chop tomatoes;
add to skillet. In small bowl, stir together reserved tomato liquid
and cornstarch; add to skillet along with red wine, Worcestershire
sauce, honey, and black pepper. Cook, stirring, until slightly
thickened. Reduce heat to low; return sausage to skillet, cover, and
cook 10 minutes.

4. Meanwhile, to prepare Potato Crepes, in small bowl combine flour
and salt. With wire whisk, beat in egg and milk until almost smooth.
Coarsely grate chilled potato quarters. In crepe pan or small
skillet, heat 2 t oil. Saute 1/4 C grated potato in oil until golden
brown. Pour 1/4 C crepe batter into pan; tip to coat pan and cover
potato. Cook crepe 2 minutes or until top is set and bottom is
lightly browned. Carefully turn crepe and cook other side. Repeat to
make 3 more Potato Crepes, using remaining oil as needed.

5. To serve, place one crepe on each serving plate. Top half of each
crepe with sausage mixture and fold other half over to cover filling.
Serve with sour cream and garnish with fresh sage sprigs, if desired.

Country Cooking/Summer/94  Scanned & fixed by Di and Gary

