Title: POTATO-FISH AND VEGETABLE LOAF - Country Cooking
Categories: Country coo, Main dish
Yield: 4 servings
-peeled & very thinly sliced
1 lg (1 lb) zucchini thinly
-sliced
1 lg (1 lb) yellow squash, thinly
-sliced
1 lg (1/2 lb) carrot, peeled
1 lg Egg
1 tb Milk
Chopped fresh dill for
-garnish (opt.)
1 1/2 lb Flounder, scrod, or sole
-fillets
3    Clove garlic, finely chopped
2 tb Chopped fresh dill
1 tb Lemon juice
2 ts Fresh thyme leaves
1/2 ts Salt
1/2 ts Ground black pepper
3 tb Olive oil
2 lg (1 lb) yellow potatoes,
1. Season fillets with 2 cloves chopped garlic, 1 T dill, the lemon
juice, thyme, 1/4 t salt, and 1/4 teaspoon pepper. Refrigerate until
Step 4.

2. Heat oven to 400F. Grease 2 large, rimmed baking sheets with 1
table- spoon oil each. Arrange potato slices in a single layer on
sheets. Bake until potatoes are lightly browned and crisped 3 to 5
minutes; set aside. Reduce oven temperature to 350'F.

3. In large skillet, heat remaining 1 T oil. Add zucchini, yellow
squash, and the remaining 1 clove chopped garlic, 1 T dill, 1/4 t
salt, and 1/4 t pepper. Saute 3 to 4 minutes or until vegetables are
just tender. Meanwhile, using a vegetable peeler, cut carrot
lengthwise into very thin, long strips. Set aside.

4. In small bowl, beat together egg and milk. Line an 8 1/2 by 4
1/2-inch loaf pan with aluminum foil, allowing 3 inches of foil to
overhang both long sides of pan. In pan, arrange in layers a third of
potato slices, a third of mixed zucchini and squash, half of carrot
strips, and half of fish fillets, brushing each layer lightly with
egg mixture before topping with next layer. Repeat to make a second
layer of each, then end with a layer of mixed zucchini and squash and
a final layer of potato slices, brushed with egg mixture.

5. Bake 20 minutes or until fish appears cooked through. (If potato
slices on top darken, cover loosely with overhanging foil.) Lift loaf
out of pan using the foil edges as handles and place on serving
platter. With knife, loosen foil from sides of loaf, then carefully
pull foil out from bottom of loaf. To serve, garnish platter with
chopped dill, if desired. With serrated knife, cut loaf into serving
pieces.

Country Cooking/Summer/94  Scanned & fixed by Di and Gary

