Title: Potato-Cheese Pizza
Categories: Italian, Pizza, Potatoes
Yield: 2 servings
-trimmed and chopped
1 tb Cornmeal
1 ts Dried rosmary, crushed
White pepper, freshly ground
2 oz Goat cheese, crumbled
2 oz Saga blue cheese or other
-blue cheese, crumbled
1 c  Warm water
3 tb Olive oil
ds Sugar
1 pk Dry yeast
2 1/2 c  Flour
Salt
1 lg New potato
2    Leeks, white part only,
Combine 1/4 cup warm water, 1 tablespoon olive oil and sugar in cup.
Stir to mix. Stir in yeast and set aside until mixture becomes foamy,
about 5 minutes. Combine 2-1/4 cups flour and 1/4 teaspoon salt in
large bowl. Stir in yeast mixture and remaining 3/4 cup warm water
until smooth and elastic, about 10 minutes, using part or all of
remaining 1/4 cup flour. Place dough in clean bowl. Cover with cloth
and let rise in warm place 1 hour. Cook potato until tender but firm
enough to slice easily. Drain and cool. Peel potato and cut into
slices 1/4 inch thick.  Heat 1 tablespoon olive oil in medium
skillet. Add leeks and saute over medium heat until tender, about 5
minutes. Set potato and leeks aside. When dough finishes rising,
punch down and roll out on lightly floured board to about 14 inch,
1/4-inch thick circle. Sprinkle baking sheet with cornmeal and place
dough over cornmeal. Brush top of remaining 1 tablesepoon of olive
oil. Sprinkle with rosemary. Bake at 400~ until crust is light brown,
about 15 minutes. Remove from oven. Scatter leeks and potato slices
over crust, arranging potato slices evenly over top.  Season to taste
with salt and white pepper. Sprinkle with goat cheese and blue
cheese. Bake until cheese melts and pizza is hot, 5 to 8 minutes. Cut
into 4 wedges. Note: If desired, all of one cheese can be used. If
using blue cheese, select mild one. The article further states that
as summer progresses, you might substitute fresh tomatoes for the
potatoes, or use strips of sauteed green and red pepper, corn
kernels, even steamed snow peas. If you want meat, add bits of
prosciutto or thinly sliced chicken or turkey sausage.

For those interested, each serving contains 1,084 calories, 676 mg
sodium, 22 mg cholesterol, 37 grams fat, 156 grams carbohydrates, 32
grams protein, 2.65 grams fiber.

:
Recipe By

