Title: PUMPKIN-BRULEE TARTS - Country Living
Categories: Pie/tart, Vegetables, Country liv, Desserts
Yield: 4 servings
1 1/3 c  Heavy cream
1/4 c  Maple syrup
1/2 ts Grated peeled fresh
-gingerroot
1/2 ts Ground cinnamon
1/4 ts Ground nutmeg
Brulee Glaze (recipe
-follows)
1 c  Unsifted all-purpose flour
2 ts Sugar
1/2 ts Salt
3 tb Butter
3 tb Vegetable shortening
2 tb Cold water
1 c  Pumpkin puree
2    Large eggs
1. To prepare pastry for tarts, in me- dium-size bowl, combine flour,
sugar, and 1/4 t salt. With pastry blender or 2 knives, cut in butter
and vegetable shortening until mixture resembles oarse crumbs.
Sprinkle water over flour mixture, one T at a time, mixing lightly
with fork just until mixture forms a ball. Wrap and refrigerate
pastry dough at least 30 minutes.

2. Meanwhile, prepare pumpkin filling: In food processor, with
chopping blade, or in bowl with electric mixer, combine pumpkin
puree, eggs, heavy cream, maple syrup, gingerroot, cinnamon, nutmeg,
and remaining 1/4 t salt, Process or beat until mixture is well
combined. Refrigerate while preparing tart shells,

3. Heat oven to 425'F. Divide chilled pastry dough into 4 pieces. On
lightly floured surface, roll out one piece of pastry to a 6-inch
round. Lift and ease pastry into a 4-inch tart pan, pressing gently
to fit; discard any excess pastry. Repeat with remaining pieces of
pastry.

4. Divide pumpkin filling among tarts and bake 10 minutes. Reduce
oven tem- perature to 350'F and bake 20 to 25 minutes or until
centers appear firm and puffed. Cool tarts in pans on wire rack 15
minutes (pumpkin filling will deflate). Cover and refrigerate tarts
until ready to serve.

5. Just before serving, prepare BrOlde Glaze. Remove tarts from pans.
Place on serving plate. Drizzle tops with Brulee Glaze and serve.

Brulee Glaze: In small heavy saucepan, combine 1/2 C  sugar and 3
table- spoons water. Cook over low heat, stirring to dissolve sugar.
Wash down any sugar particles from side of pan with a wet brush. When
sugar has dissolved, increase heat and boil, without stirring, until
mixture turns dark golden-10 minutes. Remove from heat and let stand
one minute to harden slightly. Use immediately.

Country Living/Nov/90  Scanned & fixed by DP & GG

