Title: PUMPKIN PIE IN WALNUT CRUST - Country Living
Categories: Country liv, Desserts, Pie/tart, Fruit
Yield: 8 servings
1/2 ts Ground nutmeg
1/8 ts Ground cloves
1 cn (16-oz) or 2 C pureed
-cooked pumpkin
2 lg Eggs
1 c  Evaporated milk
Walnut Pastry (recipe
-follows)
1/2 c  Firmly packed dark-brown
-sugar
1 ts Ground cinnamon
1/2 ts Salt
1/2 ts Ground ginger
1. Prepare Walnut Pastry. Between 2 sheets of floured waxed paper,
roll out one ball of pastry to an 11-inch round. Remove top sheet of
paper and invert pastry into 9-inch pie plate, letting excess extend
over edge. Remove remaining sheet of waxed paper. Trim pastry edge
even with rim of pie plate.

2. To make braided pastry, between 2 sheets of floured waxed paper,
roll out remaining ball of pastry and pastry scraps to a 10 by 4
1/2-inch rectangle. Remove top sheet of waxed paper. Cut rectangle
lengthwise into twelve 1/8-inch-wide strips. Braid 3 strips together;
repeat 3 times with remaining strips. With water, moisten rim of
pastry in pie plate. Place braids around rim of pie plate. Trim off
any excess braid and pat braid ends together where they meet.

3. Heat oven to 425'F. In large bowl, combine sugar, cinnamon, salt,
ginger, nutmeg, and cloves. With electric mixer on medium speed, beat
in pumpkin until combined. Add eggs and milk; beat until smooth and
well blended. Pour pumpkin mixture into pastry-lined pie plate.

4. Bake pie 10 minutes. Reduce oven temperature to 350'F and bake 35
minutes longer or until center of pie is set. Cool pie on wire rack
to room temperature, then serve or refrigerate.

Walnut Pastry: In medium-size bowl, combine 2 C unsifted all-purpose
nour, 1/2 C very finely chopped walnuts, 3 T sugar, and 1/4 tea-
spoon salt. With pastry blender or 2 knives, cut in 2/3 C chilled
vegetable shortening until mixture resembles coarse crumbs. Add 4 to
5 T ice water, 1 T at a time, and stir lightly with fork just until
soft, manageable pastry forms. Divide pastry into 2 balls and roll
out as directed in recipe.

Country Living/Oct/94 Scanned & edited by Di Pahl & <gg>

