Title: Ragout Of Pork With Drunken Prunes And Onions
Categories: Meats, Main dish
Yield: 6 servings
1/2 lb Pearl Onions -- peeled *
lg Grating Of Nutmeg
1/2 ts Ground Ginger
2 ts All-Purpose Flour
2 c  Beef Bouillon
2 tb Red Wine Vinegar
1 ts Granulated Sugar
2 ts Arrowroot Mixed With A
-Little Bouillon
1 1/2 c  Large Prunes -- preferably
-unpitted
3/4 c  Dry White Wine
2 tb Unsalted Butter
1 tb Peanut Oil
3 1/2 lb (To 4) Boneless Shoulder Of
-Pork, cut in 1 1/2" cubes
Salt
Black Pepper -- freshly
-ground
* TIP: Peeling peral onions is a little more time-consuming than
using the peeled frozen ones, but the difference in taste and texture
is enormous. A quick way to peel these little onions is to blanch
them for 1 to 2 mins. Then, while they are still warm, peel off a
thick layer of the onion with a sharp paring knife, making sure not
to cut through the root end, or the onion will fall apart during
cooking. You will end up with a smaller onion which is, in fact, much
more attractive than the large pearl onions.

1. Combine the prunes and wine in a bowl and let soak overnight.

2. Preheat the oven to 375 F.

3. Melt the butter together with the oil in a large heavy skillet over
medium heat. Saute the pork in batches until nicely browned on all
sides. Remove from the skillet, season with salt and pepper, and set
aside.

4. Add the onions to the skillet and saute until nicely browned.
Return the pork to the skillet, add the nutmeg, ginger, and flour,
and cook for 2 mins, or until the onions are nicely glazed. Transfer
to a large casserole or Dutch oven.

5. Drain the prunes and add the wine to the skillet. Simmer until
reduced to 3 Tbs. Add the bouillon and bring to a boil. Pour over the
meat, cover tightly, and braise in the oven for 1 hour and 30 mins.
Add the prunes and braise for 15 to 20 mins longer, or until the pork
is tender but not falling apart.

6. Combine the vinegar and sugar in a small bowl.

7. Transfer the pork, prunes, and onions to a side dish and degrease
the pan juices. Return the juices to the casserole, add the vinegar
mixture, and bring to a simmer on top of the stove. Whisk in just
enough of the arrowroot mixture so that the sauce lightly coats a
spoon. Correct the seasoning, return the pork, prunes, and onions to
the casseerole, and just heat through. Serve hot directly from the
casserole.

: Spur of the Moment Cook - ISBN 0-688-11009-6
Recipe By

Date: 09-24-95 (00:17) (159)
From: Dan Klepach
Fido: Cooking

