Title: RED SNAPPER AND ARTICHOKE HEARTS BAKED IN PARCHMENT - Cou
Categories: Country liv, Fish/seafoo, Main dish
Yield: 2 servings
1    Small shallot, minced
2 ts Chopped fresh tarragon
-leaves
1    Plum tomato, thinly sliced
1 tb Extra-virgin olive oil
1 ts Lemon juice
2    Sprigs fresh tarragon (opt.)
1/2    Carrot, peeled
1/2    Cucumber, peeled
2    Artichoke hearts, thawed
-if frozen, halved
2    6-oz red snapper fillets
1/4 ts Salt
1/4 ts Ground black pepper
1. Cut carrot and cucumber into strips about 2 inches long and 1/8
inch thick. Blanch strips in boiling water about 1 minute. Remove
with slotted spoon and plunge into bowl of ice water until cool.
Remove from ice water, pat dry, and set aside. Add artichoke hearts
to boiling water; cook until barely tender- about 4 minutes. Transfer
to bowl of ice water and cool; pat dry and set aside.

2. Heat oven to 450'F. Cut 2 pieces of parchment into heart shapes,
about 12 inches from top to bottom and 14 inches across. Fold each
parchment heart in half lengthwise to create a center crease; unfold.
Place a fillet on one side of crease on each parchment heart. Season
fillets with salt and pepper, then sprin- kle with minced shallot and
half the tarragon. Top each fillet with the reserved carrot,
cucumber, artichoke hearts, and toma- to slices, dividing toppings
equally. Drizzle 1/2 T oil over each serving of vegetables and fish,
then sprinkle each with lemon juice and remaining tarragon.

3. Fold over other half of each parchment heart to cover fillets and
vegetables. Starting at the top of each heart, seal parchment by
rolling and crimping edges together. Twist bottom point of each heart
to seal. Transfer parchment pks to ungreased baking sheet. Bake 10 to
12 minutes or until parchment is puffed and lightly browned.

4. Transfer each packet to a dinner plate. Using scissors, carefully
cut an X at the top of each parchment, allowing steam to escape. Tear
or cut parchment along one side; fold back edge to reveal fish and
vegetables. Garnish with tarragon sprigs, if desired, and serve.

Nutritional information per serving: protein: 46 grams; fat: 9 grams;
car drate: 8 grams; fiber: 3 grams; sodium: 384 milligrams;
cholesterol: 80 grams; calories: 314.

Country Living/Feb/93  Scanned & fixed by DP & GG

