Title: Scorched Tomatoes
Categories: Side dish, Vegetables, Tomatoes
Yield: 4 servings
1/2 ts Freshly ground black pepper
2 tb Ginger root; peeled and
-finely chopped
1 ts Garam Masala
1/2 c  Yogurt; at room temperature
3 lb Firm ripe tomatoes
3 tb Unsalted butter
2 md Onions; chopped fine
1 tb Minced garlic
1/2 ts Salt
Preheat the broiler, placing the rack about 6 inches under the heat.

Line a baking sheet [one with sides] with aluminum foil.  Place the
whole tomatoes core side down on the foil.  Broil the tomatoes for 10
minutes, until the skins blister and split.
Lift the tomatoes with two wooden spoons and turn them core side
up. Broil for another 10 minutes.  The skins may begin to char, which
is desireable.  :)

While the tomatoes are charring, melt the butter over medium-low
heat in a heavy, 2-1/2 quart saucepan.
Add the onions, garlic, salt, and black pepper. Saute, stirring
occasionally, until the onions wilt and begin to color.

When the skins of the tomatoes are nicely blistered and a bit
charred, remove the baking sheet from the oven.
As soon as you are able to handle the tomatoes, pull away and
discard the skins. [Try with skins on]
Core the tomatoes and if there are many obvious seeds, remove
them. A few will not matter.  Chop the tomatoes coarsely, reserving
the liquid. The chopped pieces should be no smaller than 1/2" in
diameter.

Add the ginger root and Garam Masala to the saucepan.  Stir and
saute for 1 minute and add the chopped tomatoes with their liquid.
Turn the heat to high and bring the ingredients to a full simmer.
Continue to cook over high heat, stirring the ingredients
frequently with a wooden spoon until almost all the liquid from the
tomatoes evaporates.  As the mixture thickens, push the tomatoes
across the saucepan with the back of the spoon.  The saucepan should
'clean' where you have pushed and you will hear a sound almost like
scorching. Do this frequently and do not let the tomatoes burn.  It
may take up to 1/2 hour for the mixture to thicken.

When the ingredients have become quite thick, remove the saucepan
from the heat.  You may serve the tomatoes at this point, but if you
wish to add the yogurt, let the mixture cool for about 5 minutes.
Then stir in the yogurt.

Serve the tomatoes hot or cold.

_The Country Gourmet Cookbook_  Sherrill and Gil Roth, 1981 Workman
Publishing   ISBN 0-89480-188-0   Typos by Jeff Pruett
Submitted By JEFF PRUETT   On   09-24-95

