Title: Simple Fresh Tomato Sauce
Categories: Italian, Salsa/sauce
Yield: 10 servings
3    Cloves garlic -- coarsely
-chopped
1/4 c  Tomato paste
2 tb Tomato paste
1    Sprig fresh oregano
1/2 c  Basil leaves
2    Sprigs Italian parsley
1    Dried red chile -- crumbled
1 ts Red wine vinegar
1/2 ts Brown sugar
Salt and pepper
HERB PUREE:
1 c  Basil leaves -- loosely
-packed
1/4 c  Olive oil
1/3 c  Pine nuts
RED SAUCE:
5 pk Beefsteak tomatoes
1 1/2 lb Plum tomatoes
3/4 c  Fruity olive oil
3    Stalks celery with leaves --
-coarsely chopped
2 lg Onion -- coarsely chopped
Make the herb puree:  Place the basil in a colander, rinse with
boiling water, and drain.  In a blender or food processor, combine
the drained basil, olive oil, pine nuts and 1/4 cup water.  Puree at
medium speed until smooth; set aside.  Make the red sauce: Dip both
types of tomatoes in boiling water and place in a colander to cool.
Slip off the skins, then squeeze the tomatoes over a bowl; reserve
the juice.  Cut the tomatoes into quarters and scoop out the seeds.
Coarsely chop the tomatoes; add to the bowl of reserved juice.  In
large dutch oven or other ovenproof heavy pot, warm 1/4 cup of the
olive oil over medium heat.  Add the celery, onions and garlic and
saute until the onions are translucent, 5 minutes. Add the tomatoes
with their juice and the tomato paste and bring to a boil. Reduce the
heat to low, partially cover the pot, and simmer for 2 hours,
stirring every 15 minutes.  At each stirring, drizzle in 1 tbsp olive
oil. Preheat the oven to 350.  After the sauce has cooked for 2
hours, stir in the oregano sprig, whole basil leaves and parsley
sprigs. Add the dried chilie, vinegar, brown sugar and black pepper.
Transfer the pot to the oven. Cover and cook until the sauce is dense
and thick, 1 to 1 1/2 hours. Correct the seasonings and remove the
herb sprigs. Just before serving, swirl in 1 tbsp of the herb puree
per portion.

: New York Cookbook
Recipe By

Date: 08-23-95 (14:13) (159)
From: Meg Antczak
Fido: Cooking

