Title: SLOW-SMOKED BEEF BRISKET - Country Living
Categories: Country liv, Main dish, Meats
Yield: 8 servings
About 20 lbs charcoal
-briquettes
1/2 c  Ketchup
1/4 c  Water
1/4 c  Cider vinegar
2 tb Worcestershire sauce
Barbecue Sauce (recipe
-follows)
Fresh chilies (opt.)
1    4 1/2-to 5-lb fresh beef
-brisket
1 ts Garlic powder
1 ts Salt
1 ts Paprika
1 ts Ground black pepper
1/2 ts Ground dried red chili OR
1/4 ts Ground red pepper
4 c  Hickory or mesquite wood
-chips
1. Trim and discard excess fat from brisket. In cup, combine garlic
powder, salt, paprika, pepper, and ground chili. Coat brisket well
with dry seasonings and Dlace on large plate or baking dish; cover
and refrigerate 1 hour to marinate,

2. Meanwhile, in small container, soak wood chips in water to cover at
least 30 minutes. Using a chimney starter or an electric starter for
charcoals, ignite 40 briquettes. (If possible, avoid using briquettes
ignited with chemical fluids, since they can impart an unpleasant
flavor.)

3. In small bowl, combine ketchup, water, vinegar, and Worcestershire
sauce. Set aside ketchup mixture.

4. When coals are ready in chimney starter, pour onto one side of
coal rack in covered grill. With electric starter, move coals to one
side. (If using smoker, pour coals in center and spread to create an
even layer.) Place a 12- by 6-inch baking or aluminum-foil pan half
filled with hot tap water next to hot coals in grill. (If your smoker
has its own water pan, just fill it with water.) Using tongs, move
hot coals to each long side of water pan, making sure coals touch one
another. Drain wood chips well and scatter one-third over hot coals.
Place grill rack 6 to 8 inches above coals.

5. Place brisket on grill rack over water pan and, if possible, place
oven thermometer on grill next to brisket. Cover grill and partially
close grill vents. Smoke-cook brisket 14 to 15 hours, brushing with
ketchup mixutre, or wet mop, and turning brisket every hour. At the
same time, replenish grill with wood chips and 12 more briquettes;
add water to pan as needed. The temperature of the grill should be
maintained at 200' to 225'F; open or close vents to adjust
temperature. If temperature falls too low, ignite more briquettes and
add to grill.

6. While brisket is cooking, prepare Barbecue Sauce. When the meat is
fork-tender, remove brisket from grill to serving plate. Garnish with
fresh chilies, if desired. Slice brisket across the grain and serve
with Barbecue Sauce.

Barbecue Sauce: In 2-quart saucepan, heat 1 T vegetable oil over
medium heat. Add 1 medium-size onion, chopped, and saute until soft.
Add 1 clove garlic, chopped, 1 8-oz can tomato sauce, 2/3 C ketchup,
1/3 C firmly packed light-brown sugar, 1/4 C Worcestershire sauce, 1
t hot red-pepper sauce, and 1/2 t salt. Heat to boiling, stirring
occasionally. Cover and simmer over low heat 30 minutes. Makes about
2 1/2 cups.

Nutrition information per serving with Barbecue Sauce protein: 38
grams; fat: 8 grams; carbohy- drate: 16 grams; fiber: .8 gram@
sodium! 9-52 milligrams; cholesterol: 92 milligrams; calories: 289.

Country Living/June/94 Scanned & fixed by DP & GG

