Title: Storing and Thawing Shellfish
Categories: Information, Fish/seafoo
Yield: 1 servings
Text Only
Storing Shellfish

Once purchased, shellfish is highly perishable.  Like finfish they
must be handled carefully and refrigerated properly. Live shellfish
with the exception of clams and oysters should be used immediately.
Clams and oysters, which should be refrigerated at 40 F. and packed
on ice, will remain active for several days.  Since most cooked
shellfish lasts only two or three days it is wise to use the meat
soon after cooking. Shucked clams and oysters can be stored by
packing in a metal or wax container and refrigerating.

Should longer storage time be necessary, it is best to freeze fresh
and live shellfish at their peak of freshness. Before freezing,
oysters, clams, and scallops should be shucked, washed to remove
sand, and frozen in their own liquid in a moisture-vapor- proof
container, without air space. They should be used within three
months.  Pawl, headless shrimp in the shell maintain quality during
freezing better than cooked shrimp and should be frozen while fresh.
Lobsters should be frozen live. No glazing is necessary unless the
lobster is frozen for longer than four months, as the shell prevents
the meat from drying out. In general, frozen shellfish should be
treated as frozen fish. Most will keep about three months.
Thawing Shellfish

Like the freezing process, the thawing process of shellfish is
similar to that of finfish.  Thaw shellfish in the refrigerator
allowing eighteen to twenty-four hours per pound, or in cold water
allowing one to two hours per pound.  Cook while partially chilled.
Don't thaw at room temperature or in hot water, and once thawed never
refreeze.

About the Author

Adam Starchild has combined business travel with discovering the
delights of native dishes from Hawaii and Hong Kong to Russia and the
Caribbean.  He is the author of The Seafood Heritage Cookbook (Cornell
Maritime Press), co-author of another seafood cookbook, and the
author of a number of food and cooking articles.
Submitted By BARRY WEINSTEIN   On   08-30-95

