Title: Strewing Herbs
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 info below
1    Info below
"A list of strewing herbs from the late medieval/early Renaissance
period...contains many that are familiar to us today: sage, tansy,
violets, roses, mints, pennyroyal, winter savory, marjoram, hops,
germander, sweet fennel, cowslips, lady's-mantle balm, basil,
costmary, lavender, juniper, rosemary, chamomile, 'daisies of all
sorts', lavender cotton, and sweet woodruff.

"Many traditional strewing herbs were valued primarily for their
aromas; others also had cleansing or pest-repelling qualities, either
raw or in various preparations.  Herbs of the genus Mentha (mints),
particularly pennyroyal, are flea and tick repellents.  Cedar
(Cedrus, Thuja, or Chamaecyparis spp.) shavings or branch tips remain
popular as moth and flea repellents.  Australian gum or eucalyptus
leaves, pine needles, and sage have insecticidal properties.  Scented
geraniums, rosemary, basil, fir needles, and bay leaves are said to
kill as well as repel insects. Juniper needles, chamomile, lavender,
lemon peel, lemon balm, orange peel, oregano, thyme, and sweet
woodruff are all insect repellents. Perhaps discovered by accident or
trial and error are the disinfectant, antiseptic, or bactericidal
properties of many medieval strewing herbs. Though less effective
than when used in washes or infusions, the salient properties are
found in the raw states of many plants.

"Today, some of us may dimly remember older family members engaging in
_real_ spring and fall cleaning, when virtually everything in a house
was scrubbed, pulled up, laundered, taken down, oiled, put up,
painted, washed out, or taken into the yard and beaten.  Strewing
herbs came into play as well: dried southernwood and lavender heads
were added to the straw under the wool winter carpets before they
were tacked down, lavender and cedar sprigs tied up in bags with
woolens when they were stored away each spring, lemon oil used to
polish wood floors and furniture."

"You may place dried leaves, blossoms, and branches of favorite herbs
under area rugs, either loose or in large, loose cloth bags - old
pillowcases are ideal.  (Don't use fresh herbs, or you may indeed
have something to muck out!)  You may also tuck bagged dried herbs
under sofa and chair cushions, between the mattress and mattress
cover of a bed, under the pillows in pet bedding - wherever their
aroma will be released by pressure or warmth. A thick layer of
freshly dried aromatic leaves or branches laid in newspaper and
topped with a small area rug is a delight in closets. Wherever you
use dried herbs, be alert for possible allergic reactions to them; in
my experience, allergies and irritation of mucous membranes are
particularly likely with the insect-repelling herbs, and fine dust
may be released when bagged herbs are sat, stepped, or slept upon.

"Check bagged plant materials frequently if you live in a humid
climate. They are apt to mildew if rugs become damp or if the weather
is unusually muggy.

"Strewing herbs have an attractive outdoor use as well.  You may
scatter handfuls of lightly crushed fresh herbs around a patio or
lawn just before a party...Pick the herbs early in the day to
maximize their scents, keep the stems in water until ready to use,
and use small stems or finely chopped larger stems to keep footing
safe. Add an extra doormat if your guests will be coming indoors from
the garden: damp herb bits can stick to shoes."

Excerpts from Robbie Cranch's "Herbs Underfoot: The Many Uses of
Strewing Herbs, Yesterday and Today" article in "The Herb Companion."
Dec. 1992/Jan. 1993, Vol. 5, No. 2.  Pp. 57-58.  Posted by Cathy
Harned.

