Title: Stuffed Chicken Breasts with Shrimp
Categories: Poultry, Fish/seafoo, Main dish
Yield: 4 servings
2 tb Butter, divided
2 tb Finely chopped onion
2 tb Finely chopped shallot
1 lg Red ripe tomato (about 1/2
-pound)
1    Sprig fresh thyme (OR 1/2
-teaspoon dried)
6    Fresh basil leaves (OR 1
-teaspoon dried)
1/3 c  Dry white wine
1 tb Finely chopped fresh parsely
5    Skinless, boneless chicken
-breast halves (about
1 1/2 lb Total)
1/4 c  Heavy cream
1/4 ts Tabasco sauce
Salt, to taste (if desired)
Freshly ground pepper, to
-taste
8 lg Shrimp (about 1/2 pound),
-shelled and
Deveined
Place 4 of the chicken breast halves on a flat work surface, skinned
side down.  Use a sharp knife the slice halfway through the meatiest
portion of each breast half.  Open up the breast halves,
butterfly-style, and pound them lightly with a meat mallet without
breaking the tissues. On one half of the underside of each breast
there is a detachable piece of meat called the fillet.  Remove each
of these and pound them lightly. Set aside.

Cut the remaining chicken breast half into 1-inch cubes.  Place the
cubes in a food processor or a blender.  Start blending while adding
the cream, Tabasco sauce, salt and pepper.  Blend thoroughly (there
should be about 1/2 cup).  Place 2 of the shrimp close togather in
the center of each flattened chicken breast.  Spoon equal parts of
the blended mixture over the shrimp, then cover with the flattened
fillet.  Fold the outer portions of each chicken breast half over the
filling to enclose it compactly.

Heat 1 tablespoon of the butter in  a skillet large enough to hold
all of the chicken in a single layer.  Add the onion and shallot.
Cook until wilted.  Slice the core end off the tomato and cut the
tomato into 1/2 inch cubes and add them to the skillet, along with
the thyme, basil and wine. Arrange the stuffed chicken breast halves
over the mixture and bring to a boil.  Cover the skillet closely and
cook for 10 minutes.

Transfer the chicken to a warm serving dish.  Cook the sauce over
high heat for 2 minutes.  Swirl in the remaining tablespoon of butter
and add the parsley and stir well.  Pour the sauce over the chicken
breasts and serve hot.

Makes 4 servings.

[60 Minute Gourmet; Pierre Franey] [The New York Times; December 3,
1986]

Posted by Fred Peters.

