Title: Super Soups and Scrumptious Salads
Categories: Soup/stew, Salads, Information
Yield: 1 servings
Cooking. The potato absorbs
-the salt.
- For soup and stew that is
-too salty, add a raw
-potato and discard after
~ Did know?  Cooking in cast iron definitely boosts iron intake.  Soup
simmered for a few hours in an iron pot has almost thirthy time more
iron than soup cooked in another pan. - Thickeners for soups can be
either flour or conrstarch.  It is a good idea to add the thickener
with the pan off the heat to avoid the dange of lumping. Flour is
good for soups to be served hot.  Cornstarch is better for cold
soups. - Most important of all, remember that hot soups should be
served HOT and cold soups COLD - none benefit from beign served
lukewarm. - If delayed in tossing salads, greens with stay fresher
under a drape of paper towels wrung out of ice water. - Always shake
on oil and vinegar dressing JUST before serving. - When unmolding a
salad, always sprinkle a few drops of water on the serving plate.  It
will be easy to move the salad around to position it correctly. - For
a stay put garnish in a molded salad, arrange design, pour over thin
layer of partially set gelatin and chill. - To test freshness of
dried herbs, rub them between your hands.  Oil of your hand extracts
the essence of the herb.  If there is no smell, they are not good. -
For crunchy cole slaw, cut cabbage in half and soak in salted water
for an hour. Drain well, then proceed with recipe. - Add a small
amount of beet vinegar to mayonnaise to give it a pretty color for
salads. SEASON WITH SEEDS TO ADD FLAVORS: Caraway - Tangy and
slightly sweet Cardomon - Spicy Celery - Strong, use sparingly Cumin
~ Slighly bitter Dill - Pungent and strong in flavor Fennel -
Licorice flavor Mustard - dry mustard is a mixture of ground seeds of
several mustard varieties. Sesame - Sweet, nutty flavor. Origin:
Cooking with Love, compiled by Baptist Church in Oregon. Shared by:
Sharon Stevens, Aug/95.

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   08-30-95

