Title: SWEET RAVIOLI - House Beautiful
Categories: House beaut, Holiday, Cake/cookie
Yield: 5 dozen
1 lg Egg
1 1/2 ts Vanilla extract
1/4 ts Almond extract
Grated zest of 1 medium
-lemon
3/4    To 1 C cherry preserves
2 1/2 c  All-purpose flour
1/8 ts Salt
1/4 ts Baking soda
16 tb (2 sticks) unsalted butter,
-softened slightly
2/3 c  Sugar
In a medium bowl sift together flour, salt and baking soda; set aside.

In a large bowl beat butter until fluffy. Add sugar and egg, beat
until smooth.

Add extracts and lemon zest. Stir in dry ingredients and mix until
well blended.

Divide dough in half and lay each portion between 13-inch-long sheets
of waxed paper. Using a rolling pin, roll each half of dough into a
12-inch square, about 1/8 inch thick. Check the underside frequently
and smooth out any wrinkles. Gently peel off top layer of waxed
paper; patch and trim dough as necessary to make it a perfect square.
Replace waxed paper, and slide dough squares onto a large tray. Chill
at least 1 hour, or until very cold and firm.

Remove 1 dough square and turn square over so that underside is
facing up; peel off and discard bottom sheet of waxed paper. Measure
and mark dough vertically and horizontally at 1 1/2-inch intervals.
Using a pastry wheel or large knife, cut dough as marked into 64
squares, trying not to cut through waxed paper on the bottom. Using a
spatula, transfer the squares onto greased baking sheets, spacing
them about 1 1/4 inches apart. (If dough becomes too soft to handle,
chill a few more minutes.) Place 1/2 t cherry preserves in the center
of each.

Repeat the marking and cutting procedure with the second dough square.
Using a fork, prick an "X" in the center of each square. Carefully
center each square over a preserve-topped square. Let cookies stand 4
to 5 minutes, or until squares on top begin to warm up and soften.
Then, using the tines of a fork, press down around the edges of the
upper square to seal the 2 layers. The dough should be soft enough to
allow the upper square to form a pocket around the jelly rather than
causing it to be squeezed out to the edges.

Bake in the upper third of a preheated 350'F oven 9 to 11 minutes, or
until cookie edges are just brown. Remove from oven and let stand 3
to 6 minutes and then transfer cookies to wire racks to cool
compleely. Store in an airtight container for about 3 to 4 days or
freeze up to 1 month. Recipe makes about 5 dozen 1 3/4-inch cookies.

House Beautiful Holidays 1993 Scanned & fixed by Di and Gary

