Title: TECATE BREAD
Categories: Breads, Tex/mexican, Fruit
Yield: 1 servings
1/4 c  Milk, at room temperature
5    Eggs, at room temperature
1 c  Butter, unsalted, cut into
-cubes
1 pk Dry yeast (2 2/1 tsp)
1/4 c  Warm water
3 1/2 c  All purpose flour
1/2 c  Sugar
1 1/2 ts Salt
MMMMM-----------------------MIXED TOGETHER----------------------------
1/2 c  Dried apricot pieces
1/2 c  Raisins
1/2 c  Almonds, slivered
From Martha Culbertson, John Culbertson Winery.

Tecate Bread, also known as Mexican Village Bread, is similar to the
famous fruit breads served on Twelfth Night in Mexico. Tecate Bread,
however, is not as sweet, does not contain as much fruit, and does not
have the traditional china doll baked into it. This attractively
braided loaf may be served to accompany a meal. The dough may be
partially made one day, refrigerated, and the process completed the
next day.

Sprinkle the yeast over the warm water in a medium-sized bowl.  Stir
1/2 cup of the flour into the yeast mixture and mix until smooth.
Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and let the dough rise in a warm
place for 2 hours. Put the remaining 3 cups of flour, the sugar, and
the salt into a mixer with a paddle attachment.  Add the yeast
mixture, milk, and eggs and beat until smooth. Beat in the butter, 1
cube at a time, and continue beating until the dough is smooth and
shiny.  Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and let rise in a warm place
until tripled in volume. (The dough can be made up to this stage,
securely wrapped in plastic and put into the refrigerator overnight.)
Punch the dough down and divide into 3 equal pieces. Flatten and roll
each piece in a 3 x 20 inch rectangle. Sprinkle fruit mixture over
each piece and roll up, jelly-roll fashion.  Pinch the edges to seal
and breaid the three small rolls together. Place the bread on a
lightly greased baking sheet, cover and let rise until doubled, about
2 hours. Bake in a preheated 400 degrees F oven for 15 minutes. Then
reduce the heat to 375 dgrees F and bake 25 to 30 minutes more. Cool
the bread on a rack. Makes 1 large loaf.

From: SERVE WITH CHAMPAGNE by Hilde Gabriel Lee with Allen Lee, Ten
Speed Press, Berkeley.  1988.  ISBN 0-89815-274-7 Shared by: Karin
Brewer, Cooking Echo, 3/94

Submitted By PAT STOCKETT   On   09-21-95

