Title: THREE-GRAIN FRUIT SALAD - Country Living
Categories: Country liv, Nuts/grains, Salads, Fruit
Yield: 4 servings
1 lg Golden Delicious or
-Braeburn apple, cored and
-cut into 1-inch cubes
1/2 lb Red seedless grapes
1/2 c  Apple juice
1/2 c  Reduced-calorie mayonnaise
-or reduced-fat mayonnaise
-dressing
1 tb Lemon juice
1/2 ts Salt
Salad greens
3 c  Water
1/3 c  Regular pearl barley (see
-Note)
1/3 c  Long-grain brown rice
1/3 c  Coarse kasha (roasted
-buckwheat groats or
-kernels)
1 lg Egg white
1/2 c  Coarsely chopped walnuts
1/4 c  Dark seedless raisins
1/4 c  Sliced celery
1. In 3-quart saucepan, heat water, barley, and rice to boiling over
high heat. Cover and reduce heat to low. Simmer 30 minutes.

2. Meanwhile, in small skillet, stir kasha and egg white until
kernels are coated. Cook over medium-high heat, stirring constantly,
2 to 3 minutes or until egg has dried on kasha and the kernels are
sepa- rated. Remove from heat. Stir kasha into the barley and rice
and continue to cook grains until tender and all liquid is
absorbed-about 15 minutes.

3. Meanwhile, heat oven to 350'F. Place walnuts in small baking pan.
Bake 10 to 12 minutes or until toasted. Cool walnuts to room
temperature.

4. Transfer cooked grains to large bowl and cool to room temperature
about 1 hour. (Do not refrigerate because the grains will get hard.)
Add toasted walnuts, raisins, celery, and apple. Set aside half the
grapes for garnish and remove stems from remaining grapes.

5. In 2-C glass measuring cup, combine apple juice, mayonnaise, lemon
juice, and salt. Stir until well mixed and pour over grain mixture.
Add stemmed grapes and toss salad until well mixed. Line serving
plate with salad greens. Mound salad on greens. Cut remaining grapes
into small clusters and use to garnish salad.

Note: Barley and brown rice take only 10 minutes to cook in a pressure
cooker. For a collection of pressure-cooker recipes, send a
business-size self-addressed, stamped envelope to Light 'n Easy Cook-
ing, Presto Pressure Cooking Institute, P.O. Box 1212, Eau Claire,
Wis. 54702.

Nutritional information per serving-protein: 9 grams; fat: 22 grams;
carbohydrate: 70 grams; Tiber: 1 grams; sodium: 450 milli,ram,;
cholesterol: 10 milligrams; calories: 477.

Country Living/June/93  Scanned & fixed by DP & GG

