Title: TIRAMISIU - Country Living
Categories: Country liv, Desserts, Puddings, Cake/cookie, Chocolate
Yield: 10 servings
MMMMM------------------------SPONGE CAKE-----------------------------
1 c  Sugar
1 tb Lemon juice
1 tb Water
1 ts Vanilla extract
3 tb Butter, melted and cooled
1 c  Unsifted all-purpose flour
1/4 ts Baking powder
1/4 ts Salt
4    Large eggs, separated, at
-room temperature
MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
2 1/2 tb Unsweetened cocoa powder
3    1-oz squares semisweet
-chocolate, finely grated or
-ground
1 c  (1/2 pint) heavy cream
1 lb Mascarpone
3/4 c  Sugar
1 c  Cold strong coffee
1/2 c  Dry sherry or Marsala
1. Prepare Sponge Cake: Heat oven to 400'F. Grease a 15 1/2- by 10
1/2-inch jelly-roll pan; line bottom with waxed paper; grease and
lightly flour waxed paper.

2. In medium bowl, sift together flour, baking powder, and salt; set
aside. In small bowl, with electric mixer at medium speed, beat egg
yolks and 3/4 C sugar until very pale and thick-about 5 minutes. Add
lemon juice, water, and vanilla; beat until combined, scraping side
of bowl once during beating. Set aside yolk mixture; wash and dry the
beaters.

3. In large bowl, with electric mixer at low speed, beat egg whites 1
minute or until frothy. Increase the speed to medium and gradually add
remaining 1/4 C sugar, beating until whites appear glossy and stiff
but not dry-2 to 3 minutes.

4. Sift half the flour mixture over the egg-yolk mixture and add half
the beaten egg whites; with rubber spatula, fold until combined. Fold
yolk mixture, remaining flour mixture, and the butter into remain-
ing egg whites just until combined. Gently spread batter evenly into
prepared pan.

5. Bake 15 to 20 minutes or until top is golden brown and center
springs back when gently pressed. Cool cake in pan on wire rack 15
minutes; invert cake onto rack, remove waxed paper and cool com-
pletely. (Sponge Cake can be made ahead, cooled, wrapped in plastic
and refrigerated for use within 2 days or frozen for use within
several months.)

6. When ready to assemble, prepare Filling: In small bowl, with
electric mixer at medium speed, beat heavy cream until soft peaks
form; reserve. In large bowl, with electric mixer at low speed (no
need to wash beaters), beat mascarpone and 1/2 C sugar just until
blended. Fold whipped cream into mascarpone mixture just until smooth
and blended. In small bowl or glass measuring cup, combine remaining
1/4 C sugar and the coffee.

7. To assemble Tiramisu, cut half of Sponge Cake to make a round
piece to line bottom of 2-quart serving dish. Brush half of coffee
mixture and half of sherry over bottom cake layer. Top with 1
tablespoon sifted cocoa and half the chocolate. Spread half of
mascarpone mixture evenly over bottom layer. Cut remaining cake to
fit dish and cover mascarpone layer. (Leftover cake trimmings can be
reserved for another use.) Brush top cake layer with remaining coffee
mixture and sherry; top with 1 T sifted cocoa and remaining
chocolate. Spread remaining mascarpone mixture over second cake
layer. Sift remaining 1/2 T cocoa over top and refrigerate Tiramisu
until ready to serve.

Nutritional information per serving-protein: 9 grams; fat: 33 grams;
carbohydrate- 52 grams; fiber: 1 gram; sodium: 264 milligrams;
cholesterol: 175 milligrams; calories: 541.

Country Living/March/93 Scanned & fixed by DP & GG

