Title: TURKEY WITH GLAZED FRUIT - Country Living
Categories: Country liv, Main dish, Poultry
Yield: 12 servings
1/4 ts Salt
Gravy (recipe follows)
Glazed Fruit (separate
-recipe)
Fresh sage leaves
8 c  To 10 C  homemade or
-prepared-from-mix stuffing
1    12-lb fresh or thawed
-frozen turkey
2 tb Butter, melted, or
-olive oil
NOTE: When purchasing a Thanksgiving turkey, select a bird whose
weight corresponds to the number of guests you have invited to
dinner. If, for instance, you're expecting 12 people, buy a 12-lb
turkey. Frozen turkeys should be thawed in the refrigerator, never at
room temperature. If you need a larger or smaller turkey than the one
in this recipe, follow these directions, but consult TIMETABLE FOR
ROASTING TURKEY for the proper roasting time. If you have extra
stuffing, bake it in a casserole during the last 30 to 45 minutes of
the turkey's roasting time.

1. Prepare stuffing; set aside. Remove turkey's giblets and neck from
body and neck cavities; rinse and reserve to make gravy. Rinse turkey
with cold water; drain.

2. Heat oven to 325'F. In shallow roasting pan or dark enamel roaster
with lid, place turkey, breast side up, on rack.

3. Lightly fill neck cavity of turkey with stuffing; skewer skin to
back. Tuck wing tips under shoulder joints. Spoon remaining stuffing
lightly into body cavity. If cavity opening has a band of skin across
it, push ends of drumsticks under it. Otherwise, tie drumstick ends
securely together with string. Brush turkey with butter. Sprinkle
with salt. Insert meat thermometer into center of inside thigh
muscle, making sure not to touch bone.

4. If using roasting pan, tear off piece of heavy-duty aluminum foil
2 to 3 inches longer than the turkey, then place, tent style, over
turkey. Pinch foil lightly at legs to anchor. If using enamel
roaster, cover with lid.

5. Roast turkey 4 to 4 1/2 hours, basting occasionally with pan
drippings, or until thermometer registers 185'F and drumstick moves
easily. Stuffing should register 165'F.

6. Meanwhile, start Gravy and prepare Glazed Fruit. When turkey is
done, remove to warm platter; surround with Glazed Fruit and sage.
Let turkey rest 10 minutes in a warm place before carving. Meanwhile,
finish preparing gravy and serve with turkey.

Gravy: One hour before turkey is done, in 2-quart saucepan, cook
reserved neck and giblets from Step 1 in 1 t vegetable oil over
medium heat until well browned, stirring occasionally. (If desired,
exclude the liver, wrap, and freeze for another use.) Stir 1 small
onion, chopped, 1 carrot, sliced, and 1 bay leaf into neck and
giblets; add enough water to cover. Heat to boiling over high heat;
reduce heat to low, cover, and simmer 1 hour to make broth. When
turkey has been removed to platter, skim off all but 3 T fat from
drippings in roasting pan. Strain broth through a large sieve into a
large measuring cup or bowl, discarding neck, giblets, and
vegetables. Measure strained broth. Add water to make 4 C or return
to saucepan and cook over medium heat until reduced to 4 C. Set broth
aside. Into the roasting pan with the reserved fat, stir 1/3 C
unsifted all-purpose flour until well mixed. Gradually stir in broth
and cook over medium-low heat until thickened and bubbly. Stir in 1/2
t salt and 1/8 teaspoon ground black pepper. Pour gravy into a small
pitcher.

Country Living/November/1994 Scanned & edited by Di Pahl & <gg>

