Title: TURKEY SAGE RAVIOLI WITH MUSHROOM-ZUCCHINI SAUCE - CC
Categories: Country coo, Pasta/rice, Poultry, Main dish
Yield: 6 servings
MMMMM-----------------------TURKEY FILLING----------------------------
-crumbs
2 tb Chopped fresh parsley leaves
1/2 ts Salt
1/4 ts Ground black pepper
1 lg Egg white
1 tb Margarine
1 lb Ground raw turkey, thawed if
-frozen
1 sm Onion, finely chopped
2    Clove garlic, finely chopped
1/4 c  Packaged unseasoned bread
MMMMM---------------------SAGE RAVIOLI DOUGH--------------------------
3 lg Egg whites
2 tb Olive oil
Mushroom-Zucchini Sauce
-(recipe follows)
1 tb Vegetable oil
1/2    To 3/4 C fresh sage leaves
2 1/4    To 2 1/2 C unsifted all
-purpose flour
1/4 ts Salt
1/4 c  Water
1. Prepare Turkey Filling: In large skillet, melt margarine. Add
turkey and brown well. Stir in onion and garlic; cook until tender
and all liquid evaporates. Remove from heat. Stir in bread crumbs,
parsley, salt, and pepper; cool slightly. Stir in egg white. Transfer
turkey filling to bowl; cover and refrigerate until cold.

2. Prepare Sage Ravioli Dough: In food processor with chopping blade,
process 1/2 C sage leaves (if you like sage, use more) until finely
chopped. Add 2 C flour and the salt; process to mix. In 1 cup
measuring cup, beat water, egg whites, and oil until well mixed. With
food-processor blade whirling, add egg mixture through the feed tube.
It should form a dough that balls up; if it's too sticky, add more
flour. On lightly floured surface, knead dough a few minutes or just
until smooth. Wrap with plastic wrap; let dough stand 1 flour.

3. Cut Ravioli dough into 4 pieces. Dust pieces with flour; cover with
plastic wrap to keep them moist. Flatten one piece into a 4-inch
square, about 1/4-inch thick. Set the smooth roller of a pasta
machine at the widest opening. Dust the square with flour and feed it
through the rollers. Fold dough crosswise into thirds; press together
and reshape to a 3 1/2-inch square. Insert an open end of the square
through the rollers again. Repeat rolling and folding 8 more times,
dusting with flour when necessary. After the last rolling, the dough
should be a smooth and elastic 7 by 4 1/2-inch rectangle.

4. Turn the dial one notch thinner and feed the dough through the
rollers, dusting it with flour, if necessary, to prevent it from
sticking. Continue to feed the dough through the rollers, turning the
dial one notch thinner each time, until the dough is a long strip
about 5 1/2 inches wide. Cut dough crosswise in half, then fold each
half lengthwise into a narrow strip. Turn the dial one notch wider
and feed the strips through the rollers once. Turn the dial one notch
thinner and roll dough until it is at least 3 inches wide.

5. To make ravioli, place sage dough on lightly floured board or
surface. Cut dough into 3-inch squares. Mound 1 slightly rounded
teaspoonful of Turkey Filling in center of each square. Brush the
dough around the filling with some water; fold dough diagonally in
half to cover the filling, forming a triangle. Press gently around
the filling to expel any air pockets and to seal dough. Place the
filled Ravioli in one layer on a floured, cloth-lined tray or
jeUy-roll pan. Continue filling and folding strips of dough to make
more ravioli. Repeat with remaining 3 pieces of dough. Let ravioli
dry uncovered, turning occasionally, for up to 1 flour at room
temperature, or refrigerate overnight, covered with a towel and then
plastic wrap.

6. Meanwhile, prepare Mushroom Zucchini Sauce (recipe follows). To
cook ravioli, in 5-quart kettle, bring 3 or 4 inches water to
boiling. Add oil and a quarter of the ravioli, and cook 2 to 3
minutes (longer if ravioli were refrigerated) or until the pasta is
just tender. With slotted spoon, remove ravioli, drain well, and
place on tray. Repeat with remaining ravioli. For each serving, spoon
some of the sauce onto a plate, and arrange ravioli on top.

Mushroom-Zucchini Sauce: In heavy 3-quart saucepan, melt 2 T
margarine over medium heat. Add 1/2 lb mushrooms, finely chopped;
saute until tender. Stir in 1 medium size zucchini, cut into julienne
strips; 1/4 t dried thyme leaves; and 1/4 t ground black pepper.
Saute 1 minute. Combine 2 C chicken broth and 2 T cornstarch until
smooth. Stir into mushroom mixture. Heat to boiling, stirring
constantly.

MAKES 12 APPETTZER OR 6 MAIN-DISH SERVINGS

Country Cooking/Summer/94  Scanned & fixed by Di and Gary

