Title: VEGETABLE COUSCOUS PIE - Country Living
Categories: Country liv, Main dish, Pie/tart, Vegetables
Yield: 6 servings
2 lg Eggs
1/4 ts Salt
1/4 ts Ground black pepper
1/4 c  Chopped fresh basil
Basil Tomato Sauce (recipe
-follows)
Fresh basil sprigs (opt.)
Fresh baby carrots (opt.)
2 lg Onions
2 tb Butter
1/2 lb Mushrooms, halved
3    Cloves garlic, chopped
1 lb Carrots, peeled
2 sm Zucchini, ends trimmed off
1 c  Couscous
1/2 lb Jarlsberg cheese, cut into
-large chunks
1. Cut onions into wedges that will fit through the feed tube of the
food processor. In food processor fitted with coarse shredding blade,
shred the onions. In large skillet, melt butter over medium heat. Add
onions and saute 1 minute. Cover and cook 5 minutes.

2. Meanwhile, in same processor fitted with shredding blade, shred
mushrooms. Add mushrooms and garlic to onions and saute until
mushrooms soften slightly. Cover and cook 5 minutes.

3. Meanwhile, cut carrots and zucchini into pieces that will fit the
food processor's feed tube. Shred the carrots and add to
onion-mushroom mixture. Cover and cook 1 minute. Shred zucchini and
add to vegetable mixture. Cover and cook 5 minutes or until all
vegetables are wilted.

4. Stir couscous into vegetables; cover and remove from heat. Let
stand 10 to 15 minutes or until couscous absorbs all the liquid and
the grains have softened, stirring twice while it stands.

5. Meanwhile, in same processor, coarsely shred cheese. In small
bowl, with fork, beat eggs, salt, and pepper. Generously grease a
9-inch pie plate. (If reheating pie later in a microwave, use a
microwavesafe pie plate.) Heat oven to 350'F.

6. Uncover vegetable couscous and fluff with fork to allow mixture to
cool enough so that the eggs do not cook when they are stirred in.
Stir seasoned eggs into couscous until well blended. Reserve 1/4 C
cheese; stir remaining cheese and the basil into couscous.

7. Spoon vegetable couscous into greased pie plate. Cover with
aluminum foil. Bake 30 minutes. Meanwhile, prepare Basil Tomato Sauce.

8. Uncover pie and bake 15 minutes longer or until lightly browned
around the rim. Sprinkle center of pie with reserved cheese. For
easier cutting, let stand 10 minutes before serving. (Pie can be made
ahead, cooled, covered, and refrigerated. To reheat, cover with
aluminum foil and bake at 350'F 35 to 40 minutes. Or, cover with
plastic wrap and microwave on high 15 minutes, rotating plate every 5
minutes.)

9. To serve, cut pie into wedges and place on serving plates. Top
each with some Basil Tomato Sauce and garnish with a basil sprig and
baby carrot, if desired.

Basil Tomato Sauce: Drain 1 28-oz can plum tomatoes packed in tomato
juice and reserve the juice. Cut tomatoes in half, squeeze out and
discard seeds; coarsely chop tomato pulp. In 2-quart saucepan, heat 1
T olive oil over medium heat. Add 1 small onion, chopped, and saute 1
minute. Stir in chopped tomatoes, 8 large fresh basil leaves, 1 t
sugar (or to taste), 1/4 t salt (or to taste), and 1/4 teaspoon
ground black pepper. Cover and heat to boiling. Reduce heat to low
and simmer 10 minutes. Remove basil leaves from tomato mixture. Pour
mixture into blender or food processor fitted with chopping blade.
Blend until smooth and return to saucepan; stir in 1/3 to 1/2 C
reserved juice until mixture is spoonable. Reheat just before serving.

Country Living/August/94 Scanned & fixed by Di Pahl & <gg>

