Title: Vegetarian Holiday Roast
Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian, Nuts/grains, Vegetables
Yield: 12 servings
1/4 c  Olive oil
5 lg Garlic cloves; minced
2 tb Fresh sage, chopped
1 ts Dried celery seed
2 tb Fresh rosemary leaves
-- chopped
2 ts Salt
2 c  Chopped seitan (optional)
1 1/2 c  Lentils
7/8 c  Millet
1 c  Brown rice
1 1/2 c  Chopped walnuts; -OR-
2 c  -Whole chestnuts
3 sl Whole wheat toast; crumbled
1/2 c  Almond butter
2 c  Chopped onions
MMMMM-----------------------MUSHROOM GRAVY----------------------------
1/2 c  Unbleached flour
2 c  -Lentil liquor (from above)
1 1/2 c  Water
1 ts Salt
1/2 ts Black pepper
20 md Mushrooms
1/2 c  Chopped onion
1 tb Olive oil
1/2 ts Dried oregano; -OR-
2 ts -Fresh oregano
1/3 c  Butter
Cook the lentils, millet, and brown rice separately; and reserve two
cups of the lentil liquor for making Mushroom Gravy.  If you are
using whole chestnuts, preheat the oven to 400 degrees F.  Rinse the
nuts and cut a cross about 1/2 inch deep in the small, pointed ends.
Place the nuts on a cookie sheet and bake about 20 minutes, then cool
for about 10 minutes. Remove the shells and cut the nuts in quarters.

Mix the cooked grains and lentils with the nuts, bread crumbs, and
almond butter in a large bowl and set aside.

Saute the onions briefly in olive oil, then add the garlic, sage,
celery seed, rosemary, salt, and seitan if used.  Saute 2 to 3
minutes longer, stirring constantly, then add to the other
ingredients, mix thoroughly (mooshing with fingers works best), and
put into a large oiled baking dish. Lightly coat the top of the roast
with olive oil, then bake at 350 degrees F for 1-1/4 hours. Serve
with Mushroom Gravy (below) and garnish with parsley.

MUSHROOM GRAVY: Separate the mushroom caps from the stems, then
quarter the caps and halve the stems.  Saute the onion in olive oil
on medium heat for 1 minute, then stir in the oregano and add the
mushrooms. Cook, stirring constantly, until the mushrooms have
softened and the bottom of the pan is covered with liquid.  Set aside.

Melt the butter in a saucepan over medium heat, then stir in the
flour and cook, stirring constantly, for 1 to 2 minutes.  Add the
lentil liquor and water, and continue stirring until the mixture
thickens and barely begins to boil.  Add the mushroom mixture, salt,
and pepper, and continue stirring until the gravy begins to boil.
Remove from heat and serve.

* Source: Brigitte Mars in The Herb Companion, October/November 1993 *
Typos by: Karen Mintzias

