Title: VELVETY LEMON TART - House Beautiful
Categories: House beaut, Pie/tart, Cake/cookie, Desserts
Yield: 8 servings
1/8 ts Salt
2/3 c  Fresh lemon juice, strained
2 tb Heavy cream
3    Eggs plus 2 egg yolks
1/2 c  Unsalted butter, cut in
-pieces
3/4 c  Sugar
1/2 ts Pure vanilla extract
1 c  All-purpose flour
In the bowl of a food processor, process butter a few seconds until
creamy. Add 1/4 C  sugar and process for 20 seconds until the mixture
is light and fluffy; with the motor off, scrape the bowl down once or
twice with a rubber spatula during the process.

Add the vanilla and process 1 second. Combine the flour and salt and
add to the food processor. Process until the dough comes together
around the sides of the bowl; scrape down once and process for a few
more seconds.

With lightly floured hands, press the dough evenly into a 9 inch tart
pan with a removable bottom. Press a finger around the bottom edge of
the tart, making sure that the dough is not too thick. Trim any
excess dough draping over the top of the tart pan with a knife.
Lightly press the dough around the inside of the rim with your thumb
all around the sides so that it extends about 1/8 inch above the rim
of the pan. Prick the bottom of the dough all over with a fork. Chill
the dough in the freezer for 30 minutes or overnight. Bake the frozen
tart shell in a preheated 375'F oven for 20 to 25 minutes or until
fully baked and golden brown. Cool the tart shell on a rack. Leave
the oven on.

In a bowl, whisk the remaining sugar and lemon juice together.
Gradually whisk in the heavy cream, eggs and yolks. Combine
thoroughly. Pour mixture into a saucepan and cook over medium heat,
stirring constantly with a whisk, until it thickens and the whisk
leaves a trail, about 4 minutes.

Strain the lemon curd into a bowl, pour it into the baked tart shell
and return tart to the oven for 4 minutes. Cool tart on a rack and
serve at room temperature. Before serving, carefully remove tart rim
and bottom and slide the tart onto a decorative plate. Serves 8 to 10.

House Beautiful/March/94  Scanned & fixed by DP & GG

