Title: Walnut Cake With Chocolate-Walnut Butter Cream Icing
Categories: Cake/cookie
Yield: 2 servings
12    Whole Large Walnut Halves --
-(as garnish)
Chocolate-Walnut Butter
Cream Icing
4 oz Unsweetened Chocolate
2 tb Strong Coffee
4 lg Egg Yolks
1/4 ts Salt
1/2 c  Sugar
1 c  Butter Or Margarine
1 c  Walnuts -- broken
1 c  Butter Or Margarine
2 c  Sugar
3 c  All-Purpose Flour,
-Plus 1 Tbs -- unsifted
1 tb Baking Powder
1/4 ts Salt
2 c  Walnuts -- broken
4 lg Eggs -- at room temperature
1 c  Milk -- at room temperature
1 ts Vanilla Extract
1/2 ts Almond Extract
1. Preheat the oven to 350 F. Lightly butter two 9 x 5-inch loaf pans.

2. Cut the butter into cubes in a large mixing bowl. Gradually add the
sugar and beat until creamy.

3. In a separate bowl, sift together the 3 cups flour, baking powder,
and salt. Toss the broken walnut pieces with the unsifted Tbs of
flour and set aside.

4. Add the eggs one at a time to the cream mixture, beating well after
each addition.

5. Combine the milk with the vanilla and almond extracts. Alternately
add the flour mixture and the milk mixture to the cream mixture,
beating well after each addition. Add the floured walnut pieces and
continue to beat until well blended.

6. Spoon equal portions of the batter into each loaf pan. Bake for 50
mins, or until a toothpick inserted into the cakes comes out clean.
Let the pans cool, then turn out the cakes onto a rack.

7. In a double boiler, combine the chocolate and coffee for the icing
and heat, stirring often, until the chocolate is melted and blended
with the coffee.

8. In a mixing bowl, combine the yolks, salt, and sugar. Set this
bowl in a basin or large stockpot of simmering water  and beat
rapidly with a wire whisk until the mixture runs from the whisk in a
ribbon.

9. Add the chocolate mixture to the yolk mixture. Continue to beat
over the simmering water. Gradually add the butter a little at a
time. Remove the bowl from the heat and continue to beat, using a
wooden spoon, until the icing thickend and becomes spreadable. Beat
in the walnuts and beat until smooth and a bit lighter.

10. Spread the top of each cake with the icing, and garnish the tops
with the half walnuts. Makes 2 cakes.

: In The Kitchen With Bob (Bowersox) - ISBN
Recipe By
0-688-13797-0

Date: 09-11-95 (14:01) (159)
From: Dan Klepach
Fido: Cooking

