Title: Wild Mushroom Beggar's Purse Crepes - Country Living
Categories: Appetizers, Country liv, Vegetables
Yield: 12 servings
MMMMM----------------------MUSHROOM FILLING---------------------------
-preferably mixed varieties
1 tb Chopped fresh majoram
-leaves
2 tb Sour cream
1/2 ts Salt
1/2 ts Ground black pepper
1/2 c  Diced carrot
2 tb Olive oil
1 c  Finely chopped onion
3    Cloves garlic, finely
-chopped
2 c  Chopped wild mushrooms,
MMMMM-----------------------HERBED CREPES----------------------------
1/2 ts Minced fresh chives
2 tb Vegetable oil
12    Fresh chives
12    Fresh majoram sprigs
3/4 c  Unsifted all purpose four
1/4 ts Salt
2    Large eggs
1 c  Milk
Prepare Mushroom Filling:  In small saucepan, cover carrot with
water; heat to boiling and cook 5 minutes or until just tender. Drain
and set aside. Meanwhile in large skillet, heat oil over medium heat.
Add onion and garlic; saute 5 minutes.  Add mushrooms and marjoram
leaves. Cook mixture, stirring occasionally, until mushrooms are
tender.  Remove from heat and stir in drained cooked carrot, the sour
cream, salt and pepper. Set aside while preparing Herbed Crepes.

Prepare Herbed Crepes:  In medium-size bowl, combine flour and salt.
With wire whisk beat in eggs and milk until mixture is almost smooth.
Stir chives into crepe batter.

Heat a crepe pan or heavy 8-inch skillet over medium heat; brush
bottom with some oil.  Ladle about 1/3 cup batter into skillet; tip
pan to cover bottom with batter and create a 6-inch round crepe.
Cook crepe about 2 minutes or until top is set and bottom is lightly
browned. Carefully turn crepe and cook other side briefly.  Remove
finished crepe to sheet of waxed paper.  Repeat with remaining batter
to make 11 more crepes, stacking with waxed paper between each.

To assemble filled crepes, blanch chives in boiling water 30 seconds.
Drain and set aside.  Place a heaping tablespoon of Mushroom Filling
in center of each crepe.  Gather crepe up around the edge to enclose
filling; pinch in crepes just above filling to make a "drawstring"
purse and tie securely with the blanched chive wrapped around crepe.
Wrap a marjoram sprig around each crepe, tucking ends of sprig under
chive "string" to secure. Repeat with remaining crepes and place on a
serving plate. (Crepes and filling can be made ahead, wrapped and
refrigerated; warm and assemble just before serving.)

Country Living/Jan/93   Typed by Didi Pahl

