Title: Green or Red Enchiladas
Categories: Mexican, Poultry, Cheese/eggs
Yield: 5 servings
1/2 c  Vegetable Oil
10 oz Fresh Spinach; Chopped
1/2 lb Tomatillos; Coarsely Chopped
4 oz Green Chiles; Chopped, 1 cn
2    Cloves Garlic; Crushed
1 tb Oregano Leaves; Dried
1 c  Chicken Broth
2 c  Dairy Sour Cream
2 c  Basic Green Sauce
1 c  Dairy Sour Cream
10    Flour Or Corn Tortillas; **
3 c  Cooked Chicken; Shredded
1 c  MontereyJack Cheese;Shredded
1    Dairy Sour Cream
Basic Green Sauce
Servings:  8
1 c  Onions; Chopped, 2 Med.
Servings:  5

Cook and stir onions in oil in a 3-quart saucepan until tender.  Stir in
remaining ingredients except broth and sour cream.  Cover and cook over
medium heat for 5 minutes, stirring occasionally.  Place mixture in food
processor workbowl fitted with steel blade or in a blender container; cover
and process until smooth, about 1 minute.  Return mixture to saucepan; stir
in broth.  Heat to boiling; reduce heat.  Simmer uncovered for 10 minutes.
Stir in sour cream.  Cover and refrigerate any remaining sauce.

Makes about 4 cups of sauce.

**    Tortillas should be 6-inches in diameter and should be warm.

Prepare basic green sauce and stir in the 1 cup of sour cream.  Heat oven
to 350 degrees F.  Dip each tortilla into the sauce to coat both sides.
Spoon 1/4 cup of the shredded chicken onto each tortilla and roll up. Place
seam sides down in a 13 X 9 X 2-inch ungreased baking dish.  Pour remaining
sauce over enchiladas and sprinkle with the cheese.  Bake, uncovered, until
cheese is melted, about 15 minutes.  Serve warm with sour cream.

RED ENCHILADAS:

Substitute 2 cups of the Basic Red Sauce for the Basic Green sauce.
Substitute 3 cups of shredded cheese or cooked beef for the chicken.

Basic Red Sauce

Servings:  4

8  Ancho Chilies 3 1/2 cups Warm Water 1/2 cup Onion; Chopped 2 Garlic;
Cloves, chopped 1/4 cup Vegetable Oil 8 oz Tomato Sauce; 1 cn 1 Tbs Oregano
Leaves; Dried 1 Tbs Cumin Seed 1 tsp Salt

Cover chiles with warm water.  Let stand until softened, about 30 minutes;
drain.  Strain liquid; reserve.  Remove stems, seeds and membranes from
chilies.  Cook and stir onion and garlic in oil in a 2-quart saucepan until
onion is tender.  Stir in chilies, 2 cups of the reserved liquid and the
remaining ingredients.  Heat ot boiling, reduce heat.  Simmer, uncovered,
20 minutes; cool.  Pour into a food processor workbowl fitted with steel
blade or into a blender container; cover and process until smooth. Cover
and refrigerate up to 10 days.

Makes about 2 1/2 cups sauce.

