Title: POLO HAVIDGE LOOBIA (RICE PILAU WITH CARROT A
Categories: Rice, Beans, Vegetarian, Oriental
Yield: 1 Servings
1/3 c  Dried red kidney beans
1/2 lb Carrots, cut into 1/4-in
-cubes
1/2 ts Sugar
5 tb Corn oil
4 1/4 c  Water
2 c  Raw rice, covered with
-lightly salted water
-for 1/2 hour
1 md Potato, peeled and cut into
1/4    -in thick slices
1 tb Water
1/2 ts Ground cinnamon
There are variations of variations in the artful combinations of
Persian rice.  Here is one that, with very few ingredients, manages
to encompass a wide range of seasonings and flavors.

1.  Cover the beans with water and soak them overnight. Drain. Cover
the beans with water again and cook, covered, over moderate heat
until they are soft but still whole, about 1/2 hour.  Drain and set
aside.

2.  Put the carrots, sugar, 1 tablespoon of the oil, and 1/4 cup of
the water into a pan and cook over low heat for 5 minutes, or until
the liquid evaporates. Be careful not to burn the carrots. Set aside.

3.  Bring the remaining 4 cups of water to a boil in a pan. Drain
nearly all the water from the rice and add the rice to the boiling
water. Cover the pan and cook over moderate heat for 10 minutes.
Drain, run the rice under cold water, and drain again.

4.  Put 2 tablespoons of the remaining oil in a pan large enough to
spread out the potato slices flat on its bottom. Sprinkle over this
the 1 tablespoon of water. All the other ingredients are to be added
in layers as follows: Add 1/2 cup of the rice over the potatoes.
Cover this with the carrots and a few sprinkling of the cinnamon.
Cover with the beans. Continue in this manner, one layer after
another, ending with beans. Sprinkle cinnamon lightly over each
layer. Shape the top layer into a pyramid.

5.  Cover the pan and cook over low heat for 10 minutes. Sprinkle the
balance of the oil (2 tablespoons) over the top and cover the pan with
paper kitchen towels and the pan cover. Continue to cook over low
heat for 15 minutes more.  The rice, carrots, and beans will be
cooked through and the potato and oil will develop their own crisp
crust on the bottom.

Serve warm.  Serve 4 to 6 with other dishes.

Recipe:  "Sephardic Cooking" by Copeland Mark -- 600 Recipes Created
in Exotic Sephardic Kitchens from Morocco to India -- Copyright 1992
Published by Donald I. Fine, Inc., New York, N.Y.

[> Be Seeing You -- DPileggi in Houston, Texas
From: D. Pileggi

