Title: POMAROLA (PUMMAROLA)
Categories: New, Text, Import
Yield: 4 Servings    2 1/2 c  canned, peeled plum tomatoes
in juice, or 21/2 pounds fr
sweet, mature vineripened
plum tomatoes, peeled,
seeded
:
:
:
:
4 TB s extra virgin olive oil
2 lg cloves garlic, -- bruised
1 sm red onion, -- finely
chopped
:
1 md celery stalk, including
leaves, -- finely chopped
l  small carrot, -- scraped and
finely chopped
:
:
:
1 TB chopped fresh Italian
parsley
sm handful of chopped fresh
basil
:
:
:
2 TB tomato paste
Scant 1/2 teaspoon salt, or
to taste
Freshly milled black or
white pepper to taste
:
:
:
:

If using canned tomatoes, drain the tomatoes in a colander, reserving
their juice. Strain the captured tomato juice to hold back the seeds.
Using your fingers, push out excess seeds from each tomato. Chop the
tomatoes and set aside. If using fresh tomatoes, bring a large
saucepan threefourths full of water to a boil. Slip in the tomatoes
and blanch for 30 to 45 seconds. Drain the tomatoes and immediately
plunge them into cold water. Using a paring knife, lift off the skins
and cut out the tough area around the core of each tomato. Cut the
tomatoes into quarters lengthwise and, using your fingers, push out
the excess seeds. Chop the tomatoes.

In a saucepan over mediumlow heat, warm 3 tablespoons of the olive
oil, the garlic, and onion together, and saute until the garlic is
golden and the onion is translucent, 4 to 5 minutes. Then add the
celery, carrot, parsley, and basil, and saute until the vegetables
are soft, about 10 minutes. Press down on the vegetables with the
back of a wooden spoon to release their flavors. Add the tomato paste
and continue to saute for 3 minutes. Then add the tomatoes and their
juice, cover partially, and simmer gently until thickened, about 45
minutes. Remove and discard the garlic cloves and season to taste
with salt and pepper. Remove from the heat and stir in the remaining
1 tablespoon olive oil. If a smooth sauce is desired, allow it to
cool somewhat. Position a food mill over a clean saucepan and pass
the sauce through it, being sure to press out as much of the pulp as
possible. Place over medium heat just long enough for the sauce to
heat through, about 3 minutes. Remove from the heat and stir in the
remaining 1 tablespoon olive oil.

Yield: approximately 2 cups

Note: This recipe is sufficient for saucing 1 pound of pasta.

Ahead of time note: The sauce can be made 4 to 5 days in advance of
using and stored tightly covered in the refrigerator, or it can be
frozen for up to 3 months. Whether storing it in the refrigerator or
freezer, leave out the remaining 1 tablespoon olive oil. Stir it into
the sauce after reheating.

:CHEF DU JOUR SHOW #DJ9212
Recipe By

Date: Mon, 28 Oct 1996 08:56:25
~0500

