Title: POMEGRANATE-GLAZED DUCKLING ON DRIED-FRUIT CO
Categories: Main dish, Poultry
5 lb duckling
Yield: 4 Servings
3 c  water
1 md onion -- quartered
1 lg carrot -- peeled and halved
3/4 ts salt
1    bay leaf
1/4 c  strawberry jelly -- or red
currant jelly
:
16 oz pomegranates -- juiced (2/3
cup)
:
3 TB sugar
Dried-Fruit Couscous -- *see
recipe
:
:
1/4 c  dry red wine
2 TB cornstarch
fresh mint sprigs --
optional
:
:

1. Remove giblets and neck from duckling.  Remove and discard excess
fat from inside body cavity.  Cut off and discard excess neck skin.
Rinse duckling, giblets, and neck in cold water and pat dry with
paper towels. Cut off and reserve first 2 joints of the wings,
leaving only the third. To cut duckling into quarters, using poultry
shears, cut duckling lengthwise in half through the breastbone and
continue cutting along one side of the backbone; cut duckling halves
in half crosswise. 2. Coat bottom of 5-quart kettle or Dutch oven
with nonstick vegetable cooking spray. Add giblets, neck, and
reserved wing tips to kettle and cook until well browned. Add
duckling quarters, water, onion, carrot, 1/2 teaspoon salt, and the
bay leaf.  Cover and heat to boiling over high heat. Reduce heat to
low and simmer, covered, until duckling is fork-tender - about 1
hour. (If preparing ahead, remove duckling from kettle, cool, wrap,
and refrigerate. Strain cooking liquid, discarding fat and cooked
particles. Refrigerate liquid, or duck stock.) 3. Just before
roasting duckling, prepare pomegranate glaze: In 1-quart saucepan,
heat jelly until melted. Stir in pomegranate juice and sugar and heat
to boiling over high heat. Boil mixture 5 minutes; remove from heat
and set aside. 4. Heat oven to 450 degrees F. Remove duckling from
kettle and place, skin side up, on rack in roasting pan.  (If duck
breasts have curled up after boiling, remove their breast bones so
they will be flat.) Roast duckling 15 minutes. 5. Meanwhile, pour
duck stock through large strainer into bowl, discarding cooked
particles.  Remove excess fat from stock. Reserve 1 cup stock for the
sauce and 2 cups stock for Dried-Fruit Couscous; refrigerate
remainder for another use. 6. Brush duckling with some glaze and
roast 5 minutes; roast duckling 10 more minutes or until well
browned, brushing 3 more times with glaze. Prepare Dried-Fruit
Couscous; keep warm. Set duckling quarters aside. 7. Prepare sauce:
In cup, combine wine and cornstarch until smooth. Stir reserved 1 cup
stock and remaining 1/4 teaspoon salt into glaze remaining in
saucepan.  Heat to boiling and stir in cornstarch mixture. Cook,
stirring constantly, until thickened. Pour sauce into serving bowl.
8. Spoon Dried-Fruit Couscous onto serving plate. Arrange duckling on
couscous.  Garnish with mint, if desired. Serve duckling and couscous
with sauce.

: Country Living Magazine, October 1994
Recipe By

From: "Sharon L. Nardo" <snardo@onramp.Date: Fri, 25 Oct 1996 10:54:25
~0400

