Title: PORK WITH CELERY & ORANGE
Categories: Meats, Pork
Yield: 4 Servings
1 3/4 lb Lean end belly of pork
2    Pig's kidneys, (5 oz each)
3 sm Oranges
1    Head of celery
1    Onion
2    Garlic cloves; crushed
Parsley and rosemary
1    Bay leaf
A little yeast extract
Flour and dripping
Halve and core the kidneys.  Soak them in acidulated water for 1 hour
then drain and dry.  Bone the pork, reserve the rind and cut the
flesh (there should be at least 1 lb.) into large cubes. Grate the
zest of all 3 oranges and squeeze the juice from 2.  Measure the
juice and add enough yeast extract dissolved in hot water to make 8
fl. oz. of liquid in total.

Seal the pork briskly in a little hot fat and transfer to a casserole.
Slice the kidneys thickly, dust with flour, brown in the hot fat and
add to the casserole. Tie together 3 sprigs of rosemary, 6 bruised
parsley stalks and a bay leaf, and bury the bouquet among the meats.
Roughly chop the onion and fry it briefly. Sprinkle on 1-1/2
tablespoons flour and pour on the liquid. Bring to the boil,
stirring, and add to the casserole. Add plenty of salt and pepper,
the crushed garlic and orange zest. Cut the celery into large chunks
and add it to the casserole - do not stir it in. Lay the pork rind,
fat side down, on top of the celery, and put a sheet of greaseproof
paper over that. Cover with the lid and cook at 325 F (160 C) gas
mark 3 for 1-1/2 hours, then at 300 F (150 C) gas mark 2 for a
further 45 minutes.

Remove and discard the paper, rind and bouquet of herbs. Stir the
casserole to mix the ingredients and add the flesh of the reserved
orange, cut into V-shaped segments and ruthlessly stripped of all
membrane. Cover with fresh greaseproof paper and the lid; cool
quickly and chill overnight.

Remove surface fat and reheat the casserole gently but thoroughly for
serving.  Check seasoning and garnish with fresh chopped parsley.

Source: Philippa Davenport in "Country Living" (British) October 1987.
Typed for you by Karen Mintzias

