Title: PORK ROAST BARBEQUE
Categories: Main
Yield: 1 Servings
SEE DIRECTIONS:
I am becoming convinced that *simple* is better. I am on a quest to
develop bbq techniques that use a handful of ingredients to deliver
the bbq taste we all crave. To that end, here is the rub and baste I
used today: (BTW, the bbq drew raves by my most severe critics...my
family.) :-)

BBQ Pork Roast

Prep: Wash roast and pat dry. Rub a thin layer of prepared table
mustard over the entire surface. Then sprinkle on this rub (makes
enough for a four pound roast):

1 Tbl Lawry's Garlic Salt - Coarse Ground with Parsley 1 Tbl Cracked
black pepper 1 Tbl Paprika 2 tsp Celery salt

Mix well and "rub" it in to the meat if you want. I just "press" it
into the meat here-and-there with my fingers. Let the roast stand for
at room temp for about an hour (if you want to dry marinate it
longer, be sure to refrigerate the meat, then bring it to room temp
before cooking.)

I cooked this on a Weber kettle using both charcoal briquets and
hickory chunks. I filled my chimney starter about 2/3 full of
Kingsford briquets and topped it off with a couple of baseball size
chunks of hickory. When the hickory started to really blaze, I dumped
the fuel into the Weber and moved it all to one side. I put a pan
with water opposite the coals, replaced the cooking grid, and put the
roast over the pan of water. The bottom vents were 3/4 closed and the
top vent fully open. After 30 minutes I rotated the roast 180 degrees
and spray-basted it with this mixture:

12    oz. Apple juice 2 tsp Lemon juice

I continued to rotate and baste the roast every 30 minutes for three
hours, adding a couple of water-soaked hickory chunks to keep the
smoke flowing. At the three hour mark I added another 2/3 chimney
starter full of blazing briquets and hickory chunks.

Right about that time, my wife called (from her mother's house) and
said, "Supper better be ready when I get home." Since she would be be
home in an hour, I figured I better check the temp of the roast. I
*almost* panicked when the thermometer read 140 degrees, but I got a
grip and let my imagnation and common sense kick in. I removed the
roast and cooking grid, put the water pan in the middle of the
cooking grate, and made two piles of coals on either side of the pan.
Then I put the roast over the water pan and cranked the bottom vents
all the way open. Every ten minutes from then on, I turned the roast
and sprayed it liberally with the baste.

When the boss got home, the roast was done. It was juicy and tender,
it tasted like bbq, and I didn't get clobbered with a rolling
pin....Life is good.

: Craig Edmundson
Recipe By

