Title: PORK EMPANADAS (MEAT TURNOVERS)
Categories: Mexican, Appetizers
Yield: 16 Servings
2 lb Pork Butt or shoulder roast
1    Onion, quartered
2    Garlic cloves
1/2 ts Salt
1 ts Oregano
1 ts Cumin
2    Bay leaves
1 1/2 c  All purpose flour + 2tb more
3/4 c  Masa Harina
1 ts Baking powder
1/4 ts Salt
1/2 c  Lard or solid shortening
1    Egg, beaten
1/2 c  Milk
1 c  Chile chipolta salsa
1/2 ts Salt
Milk
This recipe is not as complicatated as it looks. First your prepare
the filling which is easy to make and can be used for almost anything
else, such as a taco filling. Next make the dough, which is no harder
to do than pie dough.

Place pork in large pot.   Cover with water.   Add onion, garlic, 1/2
ts. salt, oregano, cumin, and bay leaves. Bring to boil, reduce heat,
and simmer for 1
1/2    hrs.

While the pork cooks, prepare the dough.  Sift together the flour,
Masa, baking powder and 1/4 ts. salt. In a separate bowl, beat
together the egg and 1/2 c. milk. Make a well in the center of the
dry ingreds..Add the egg mixture and stir with a fork until the dough
comes together in a ball. Divide the dough into 16 even-size pieces
and roll each piece into a ball. Place in a bowl, cover, and
refrigerate.

After pork has simmered for 1 1/2 hrs, preheat oven to 375 F.. Remove
the pork from the liquid.  Save the stock for soup if you like. Place
pork in a baking dish or Dutch oven. Brush with hot pepper sauce.
Bake for 1 hr., or untill meat shreds easily with fork. Remove from
oven and shred into small pieces. Combine Red Chile Salsa (see #141)
and remaining 1/2 tsp. salt. On lightly floured surface, flatten a
piece of dough with the palm of your hand. With rolling pin
(actually, a piece of cut-off broom handle works best), roll out the
dough to make a 5" circle, abt. 1/8" thick. Place 2-3 tbs. filling in
center of the dough. Brush edges of dough with milk. Fold dough over
filling. Pinch edges together. Crimp with fork to seal. Place on
lightly greased baking sheet. Bake for 20 min.,, or until golden.
Remove to rack and cool for abt. 5 min. Serve warm. Can be frozen
baked or unbaked. If baking from freezer, do not thaw.  Bake in
preheated 350 F. oven for 25-30 min. Reheat baked frozen at 350 for
15 min.

