Title: POSOLE (NATIVE AMERICAN THANKSGIVING)
Categories: Digest, Nov., Thanksgivin
Yield: 1 Servings
2 lg Cans of hominy
3    Or 4 cans of vegetable broth
Or stock
2    Or 3 green chiles (roasted
And peeled)
(if using fresh, it will be
Otter
Juice in as well, and just
Be sure to check the peppers
For bits of peel
Still stuck to the skin)
1 lg 1015 onion, diced
3    Or 4 large carrots, diced
3    Or 4 stalks of celery,
Diced
x  Salt and pepper to taste
1/2 ts Each oregano, garlic, cumin
1 tb Chile powder
x  Fresh cilantro, minced, 2
Tbsp
If using canned, throw the
Yet another appropriate Thanksgiving dish is Posole, which is
indigenous to the Native American southwest. Posole is really
considered most traditional around Christmastime and is always served
New Year's Eve and/or New Year's Day for good luck.  However, Pueblo
peoples have made posole for generations and it is a staple winter
dish. I have adapted it for vegan use. Please adjust everything to
taste; my tastes are for more spice and chiles than most folks would
care for, so I add more of almost everything. Also:  the fresher
ingredients will make an amazing difference in the taste of the
posole, so if possible, prepare your own vegetable stock, roast your
own fresh Anaheim or New Mexico chiles, and buy flash frozen posole
(also spelled pozole) corn in the store, rather than using canned.

Saute the onions and celery until the onion is transparent. This can
be done with water and veggie stock or with spray-type coatings. Dump
everything else in and bring to a low boil. Simmer until you like the
texture.  The hominy should be really soft, almost to the
break-up-and-really-form-a-thick-stew stage.

I serve posole with cornbread and a crisp green salad. If you wish to
add any animal protein, the original recipes call for pork or ham. I
have found that chunks of turkey work wonderfully with this recipe.

Please consider your tolerance for spices.  The heat will come from
the green chiles and the chile powder, as well as the black pepper.
Finally, if you want a little more color in the stew, you could throw
in some kernel corn.  Hope you enjoy.

Posted by MARTHA KUNKEL <cemk@odessa.edu> to the Fatfree Dig. [Vol.12
Issue 3], Nov. 4, 1994. FATFREE Recipe collections copyrighted by
Michelle Dick 1994. Used with permission. Formatted by Sue Smith,
S.Smith34, TXFT40A@Prodigy.com using MMCONV.

