Title: POT STICKERS FILLING
Categories: Chinese, Pork, Appetizers
Yield: 1 Servings
1/2 lb Ground pork
1/2 sm Head Chinese (napa) cabbage,
Cored and chopped
1    Green onion, coarsely
Chopped
2    Thumb-size slices fresh
-ginger
2    Water chestnuts, chopped
1 ts Salt
1/2 ts Granulated sugar
Pinch white pepper
1 ts Oriental sesame oil
5 tb Vegetable oil, divided
1 c  Water
Combine pork, cabbage, green onion, ginger, water chestnuts, salt,
sugar, white pepper and sesame oil, and refrigerate until read to use.

Fill pot stickers by spooning 1 level tablespoon of filling into
center of each pancake.  Fold dough over to make half-circle and
pleat edges firmly together. Pinch shut to seal, then decoratively
mark with the point of a dinner knife.

To pan-fry, heat cast-iron or wok or other heavy-bottom skillet over
moderate heat.  Add 3 tablespoons vegetable oil, swirling to coat
bottom. When oil is hot, place pot stickers, seam side up in skillet
and agitate (shake) for 30 seconds.  (You may need to do this in two
batches.)

Pour in 1 cup water, cover, and gently boil over moderate heat for 7
to 8 minutes.  When oil and water start to sizzle, add remaining 2
tablespoons oil, if needed. Tip skillet to distribute oil evenly;
watch carefully (uncovered) to prevent sticking.  When bottoms are
brown, remove from heat and carefully lift out pot stickers with
spatula.

To serve, turn pot stickers over (dark side up) and arrange on serving
platter.  Serve with dipping sauce.

TIPS: When cutting into these in recipe testing, we discovered the
pork filling appeared pink in some, even though the meat was done.

You can freeze uncooked pot stickers for later use but remember to
squeeze out the water from cabbage during preparation (in a colander
or cheesecloth).  Freeze pot stickers separately on cookie sheets
until firm, then put them in plastic bags.

When rolling out the pancakes, leave the centers slightly thicker
that the edges.  A thicker center will hold up better during the
browning.

If you prefer, steam pot stickers for about 12 minutes over boiling
water instead of pan-frying.

PER POT STICKER: 57 calories (20% from protein, 60 percent from
carbohydrate, 20 percent from fat), 3 grams protein, 6 milligrams
cholesterol, 95 grams sodium. Exchanges 1/2 bread.

SOURCE: Adapted from "Chef Chu's Distinctive Cuisine of China" -
presented in the Oregonian's FOODday, July 1992.

Shared by Cate vanicek

