Title: POTATOES WITH FENUGREEK LEAVES
Categories: Digest, Jan.
Yield: 1 Servings
4    To 5 medium sized potatoes
Any type of potato other
Than the baking ones will
Do
1 bn Fenugreek greens OR a small
Bn spinach+dried fenugreek
Leaves
Few mustard seeds
1 pn Asafoetida (optional, but it
Really adds to the flavor
Here)
x  Cayenne/Chili powder
1    Pinch turmeric
Salt
1 sm Pinch of sugar
Your favorite liquid for
Sauteeing(water or vegetable
Broth)
Boil and cube the potatoes. Wash the greens, shred into fine strands
and set  aside. Heat a good non-stick pan and add the mustard seeds.
As soon as they  start spluttering, add the asafetida, fry for a
couple of seconds and then ad  the cayenne/chili powder and turmeric
and continue sauteeing adding a bit of liquid if it sticks. If dried
fenugreek leaves are used, crush them a bit  and add at this point.
Add the cubed potatoes, salt and sugar and reduce the flame to
medium. Saute potatoes without adding any more liquid till a nice
crust forms around them. Now start adding the shredded greens, a
little at a  time. Continue sauteeing till all the liquid is absorbed
and the greens are a l wilted. Serve with chapatis(the types that are
roasted on an open flame, call d phulkas) or with steamed rice and
dhal.

> (For those who are wondering, fenugreek has a 'spicy' taste most >
similar to the effect of cumin - it makes the food spicier without >
adding a particular taste of its own. *Not* spicy as in capsicum... >
just a vague idea that the food is spicy. (How *do* you describe the
> taste of a new food???))

Well, it is not very spicy as long as you use small quantities of
fenugreek. You will be surprised at how strongly bitter the spice is
if you use it in larger amounts. I could post my recipe for curry
powder using fenugreek if anybody wants it, I generally use this
powder to make a spicy lentil stew called 'sambhar'.

Posted by nalini@Rational.COM (Nalini Ganapati) to the Fatfree Digest
[Volume 14 Issue 6] Jan. 6, 1995.

Individual recipes copyrighted by originator. FATFREE Recipe
collections copyrighted by Michelle Dick 1995. Formatted by Sue Smith,
SueSmith9@aol.com using MMCONV. Archived through kindness of Karen
Mintzias, km@salata.com.

1.80รก

