Title: POTATO CREPES WITH SCALLOPS SALMON & ASPARAGUS
Categories: Pancakes
Yield: 2 Servings
1/2 lb Fresh asparagus
1 tb Dry white wine
1/2 ts Cornstarch
1    Egg white
1/8 ts White pepper
1/4 lb Scallops
1/4 lb Salmon filet
Potato crepes (see recipe)
1 1/2 c  Peanut oil
1 ts Minced fresh ginger
1 tb Minced green onion
1/8 ts White pepper
1/2 c  Chicken stock
2 ts Soy sauce
1/2 ts Rice vinegar
1/4 ts Sugar
1/2 ts Cornstarch dissolved in 1
-teaspoon water
Starting at the tip end, cut the asparagus into 1 1/2-inch lengths
with a diagonal rolling cut:  slice off the tip at an angle, roll the
asparagus about a quarter turn and cut again, and repeat on down the
stalk until you reach the tougher base.  Discard the bases.  Dissolve
the cornstarch in the wine in a medium bowl; add the egg white and
pepper and beat lightly. Remove the tough white muscle from the edge
of each scallop and cut the scallops into 1/4-inch-thick discs.
Remove any pin bones from the salmon and slice across the width of
the slice (parallel to the backbone) into 1/4-inch-thick rectangles.
Add the salmon and scallops to the egg mixture and toss gently to
coat. Preheat the oven to 175F and set 2 dinner plates in it to warm.
Prepare the Potato Crepes and place 1 on each plate. Keep warm in the
oven. Have a clean, dry, heatproof container, such as a saucepan, on
the stove with a heat proof sieve on top. Drain the scallops and
salmon and discard the marinade. Heat a wok or deep skillet over high
heat. When it begins to smoke, add the oil. Wait 30 seconds, then add
the seafood (the oil will not be very hot yet; this is intentional).
Cook, stirring gently to separate the pieces, until salmon has lost
its raw color.  Pour the contents of the wok into the sieve. Return
the wok to the heat, and in the bit of oil clinging to the pan,
stir-fry the ginger and green onion until fragrant.  Add the pepper
and asparagus and stir-fry until it begins to brown.  Add the chicken
stock, soy sauce, vinegar and sugar.  Cover, and cook until the
asparagus is crisp-tender, 2 to 3 minutes depending on size.  Remove
the cover, return the seafood to the wok, and stir in the cornstarch
mixture. Cook until the sauce is slightly thickened. Taste for
seasoning and adjust if necessary, then divide the seafood, asparagus
and sauce over the potato crepes. Serve immediately Serves 2. From
the San Francisco Chronicle, 2/13/91. Note that the potato pancakes
require the potatoes to be cooked and cooled ahead of time, which can
be done earlier in the day or the night before. Posted by Stephen
Ceideburg; March 7 1991.

