Title: PROFESSIONAL RANGE TIPS (L A TIMES)
Categories: Info/tips
Yield: 1 Servings
Typed by Manny Rothstein
Question: My friend has a new gourmet "professional" gas range with
six special burners and boiler, grill, griddle, warming tray....Do
these use more gas and heat up a kitchen more than an ordinary gas
range?

Answer: Even through these special professional gas ranges have many
features and super-high-output burners, they actually can consume less
energy overall than an ordinary gas range. With one of these ranges
anyone can become a gourmet cook. They are commercial quality and
should last a lifetime.
Professional home-use "restaurant" ranges have burners with heat
outputs as high as 15,000 BTU. The largest burners on ordinary ranges
are only 9,000 BTU. When you are boiling water or cooking, the pot
heats up faster with the higher output burners.
This reduces the overall cooking time and the total amount of heat
that is wasted and lost into your kitchen. When cooking or
entertaining, your kitchen will stay more comfortable, especially in
the summer.
Professional ranges also have special burner designs and controls to
provide more precise; and therfore, efficient cooking. One model has a
multistage burner that varies the heat output from 14,000 BTU down to
only 400 BTU. This is ideal for extremely delicate simmering.
Other professional ranges use special star burners. Instead of a
round burner flame on an ordinary burner, a star burner has eight
fingers projecting from the center. There are many holes in the top
of each finger, so the flame is in contact with the entire bottom of
the pot for even cooking with no burning.
Many professional ranges have six burners, built-in grills with lava
rocks and griddles. The ovens are very large capacity, big enough to
handle a commercial bun tray. Some models have the option of gas or
electric ovens, or one of each. If you prefer an electric oven, you
can get an optional convection oven which allows you to switch the
fan on or off.
Special infrared broilers produce evenly cooked juicy meats and
seafood. Instead of just an open flame above the meat, the gas flows
out into a large rectangular honeycomb box. As the gas burns in the
hundreds of tiny holes, the entire honeycomb piece glows red and
sears the meat perfectly. You can also get a super-hot 30,000 BTU
accessory burner for wok cooking.
Don't just go out and buy a commercial-grade restaurant range. They
are not certified by the AGA for home use. Certified professional
"home-use" ranges have child-proof knobs, cool air-wash oven doors,
electronic ignition and insulated/multi-wall construction for
zero-clearence against cabinets.
You can write to me for Utility Bills Update No. 637 showing a
buyer's guide for professional home-use gas ranges listing
manufacturers, number of burners, burner heat output, design of
burner and broiler, griddles, grills, convenience features and
prices. Pleace include $1.50 and a self-addressed business size
envelope. Send your requests to James Dulley, c/o Los Angeles Times,
6906 Royalgreen Dr., Cincinnati, Ohio 45244.

L A Times, 6/20/93.

