Title: PUEBLANA TINGA
Categories: Meats
Yield: 6 Servings
Stephen Ceideburg
5 lg Ripe tomatoes (2 1/2 pounds)
3    Garlic cloves, each cut into
-thirds
2    Chipotle chiles abobado (see
-note)
2 ts Olive oil
2 md Onions
1/2 lb Very lean bulk Mexican
-chorizo sausage
2 tb Apple cider vinegar
2 tb Brown sugar
1/2 ts Salt
2 ts Adobo juice from can of
-chipotles
1/2    Cinnamon stick
1/4 ts Ground cloves
Shredded roast pork or
-chicken (see recipes)
1    Ripe avocado, thinly sliced,
-for garnish
1    Red onion, sliced into
-rings, for garnish
Serve this as a stew with steamed white or brown rice. Accompany with
avocado and onion slices. Tinga is also good served in warmed,
scooped out French rolls or bolillos (Mexican rolls). You can add
avocado slices, onion and a mild white cheese such as Jack to the
sandwich. With a glass of icy beer and a salad, you have everything
you need.

Put tomatoes on a jelly-roll pan and place about 8 inch inches under a
preheated broiler. Broil until tomato skins turn brownish, about 10
minutes. Peel, cut in half horizontally and squeeze out seeds. Place
tomatoes in a food processor along with garlic and chipotle chiles.
Chop into a coarse puree.

Heat olive oil in a skillet. Add onions and saute for 5 minutes until
softened. Remove and set aside Using the same skillet, fry the chorizo
until well cooked. If the sausage is fatty, drain on paper towels and
wipe out skillet. Return the sausage and onion to skillet and add the
tomato-chipotle mixture along with vinegar, sugar, salt, adobo juice
and spices. Simmer for 20 minutes.

Add the shredded pork or chicken, and simmer 20 to 25 minutes to blend
flavors. If the mixture seems dry, add 1/2 cup broth or water.

To Serve: Serve as a spicy stew with steamed rice. Or use as a
filling for Mexican bolillos: Cut rolls in half and pull out some of
the soft crumbs. Pile onion rings and avocado slices into the halves,
then spoon on the tinga.

Note: Chipotles are sold in 8-ounce cans labeled "chipotles
adobados." They are found in Mexican grocery stores and in the ethnic
sections of some supermarkets.

PER SERVING (with pork). 430 calories, 40 g protein, 22 g
carbohydrate, 21 7 g fat (5 g saturated), 118 mg cholesterol, 758 mg
sodium, 5 g fiber.

PER SERVING (with chicken): 430 calories, 37 g protein, 22 g
carbohydrate, 22 g fat (5 g saturated), 104 g cholesterol, 932 mg
sodium, 5 g fiber.

Jacquiline Higuera McMahan writing in the San Francisco Chronicle,
12/18/91.

Posted by Stephen Ceideburg

