Title: PUERTO RICAN BEEF PLANTAIN OMELETTE (PINON)
Categories: Beef
Yield: 4 Servings
3    Plantains -- very ripe
Oil -- for frying
1    Onion -- chopped
1/2    Green bell pepper --
Chopped
2    Cloves garlic
1/2 lb Ground beef
1/4 c  Tomato sauce
1 tb Capers
1 tb Green olives -- sliced
Salt and pepper
1/2 lb Green beans -- cut in 3-inch
Pieces
6    Eggs
1/4 c  Butter
Plantains are good sliced and sauteed. They're also good substituted
into any recipe that uses cooked bananas. Many caribbean recipes that
call for banana originally called for plantain, but the recipe-writer
thought you wouldn't have access to plantain.

The recipe is a little heavy in the fat department, so I usually
leave out the meat, and skimp on the oil and butter. (I don't know
how authentic the veggie version is!) Also, the author wants us to
boil the beans to death. I have taken the liberty of changing that in
the body of the recipe.

Use fresh or frozen green beans.

Peel the plantains, cut into 2-inch thick legthwise slices, and fry
in oil till golden brown. Remove, drain, and keep warm.

In a frying pan, saute the onion, green pepper, and garlic until soft
but not brown. Add the ground beef and fry at high heat for 3
minutes. Pour in the tomato sauce and add the capers and olives, if
desired. Cook 15 minutes over medium heat, stirring occasionally.
Season with salt and pepper to taste. Wash the string beans and steam
till tender.

Beat the eggs, adding salt and pepper to taste. Butter the sides and
bottom of a round casserole and melt the remaining butter in the
bottom.

Pour in *half* of the beaten eggs and cook over medium heat for about
1 minute or until slightly set. Cover the eggs with one-third of the
plantain slices, following with layers of half the ground meat and
half the string beans. Add another layer of plantains, the remainder
of the ground beef, another layer of beans, and top with plantains.
Pour the rest of the beaten eggs over the top.

Cook over low heat for 15 minutes, uncovered, being careful not to
let the omelette burn. Then place in a preheated 350-degree oven for
10 to 15 minutes to brown the top of the pin~on. Serve with rice and
beans.

Excellent for lunch.

Serves 4

From: dmcmenam@mtholyoke.edu (Dianna McMenamin)

: "The Total Banana" by Alex Abella (Harcourt, Brace,
Recipe By
Johanovi

Date:
From:

