Title: PUMPKIN EMPANADAS
Categories: Mexican, Pies, Ceideburg 2
Yield: 14 Pies
2 c  Unbleached white flour
2 tb Sugar
2 ts Baking powder
1/2 ts Salt
1/2 c  Shortening
1/4 c  Cold sweet butter
1 tb Brandy
3 tb Milk
16 oz Canned pumpkin puree
3/4 c  Brown sugar
2 ts Cinnamon, or 2 teaspoons
-minced wild anise leaves
1/4 ts Freshly grated nutmeg
1    Egg
2 ts Pure vanilla
1    Egg beaten with 1
-tablespoon water for glaze
2 tb Sugar mixed with 1 teaspoon
-cinnamon
Thanksgiving day, I whipped up the following in lieu of the
traditional pumpkin (ho-hum) pie.  Both the crust and the filling are
excellent. The flavors are a bit richer and more interesting than the
traditional punkin' pie (at least my punkin' pie).  The only problem
that I encountered was that the dough was a bit hard to handle++it
tended to tear and was a bit hard to roll out thin.  That may be
because instead of chilling it for a half-hour like the recipe says,
I put it in the fridge and forgot about it for two and a half hours!
It seemed to get easier to handle as it warmed up.  Also, instead of
making the dough by hand, I used my food processor and it turned out
just fine. Just don't over process the dough if you do it that way

These remind me of Mexican Dim-Sum.  In fact I'm sure that they'd be
good with meat fillings too++say, curried pork or beef and onions
(without the final sprinkling of cinnamon sugar though).

Sift together first 4 ingredients.  Cut in the shortening and butter
using a pastry blender or 2 knives. The mixture should resemble
coarse meal.

Combine brandy and milk, and drizzle over flour mixture, stirring
with a fork to distribute.  Do not over-blend.

Form into a flat disc and wrap in plastic wrap.  Chill for 30 minutes.

Preheat oven to 400F.

To make the filling, blend together the pumpkin, brown sugar, spices,
egg and vanilla.

When dough is chilled, roll out thinly on a floured board or pastry
cloth. Cut into 4- or 5-inch circles. Place about 2 tablespoons
pumpkin filling on the lower half of each dough circle. Fold over top
half. Press the edges together with a fork.  Brush tops with egg wash
and place on a baking sheet.  Bake for 15 to 18 minutes, or until
golden.

While still warm, sprinkle with the cinnamon sugar. These may be
baked 1 day ahead.  Before serving, warm in a 350F oven for 8
minutes. Makes 14 to 16 empanadas. Pumpkin Empanadas (Jacqueline
Higuera McMahan)

When Grandmama made these little pies she included anise, which grew
wild around our rancho.

San Francisco Chronicle, 11/14/90.

Posted by Stephen Ceideburg November 24 1990.

