Title: PUREE OF GARLIC SOUP WITH CHICKEN DUMPLINGS
Categories: Soups, Diabetic
Yield: 6 Servings
Stephen Ceideburg
2 tb Olive oil, divided
1 lb Garlic *
2 md Onions, coarsely diced
7 c  Chicken broth or water
1    Lemon, halved
4    Bay leaves
4    Sprigs fresh thyme or:
1 tb Fresh, chopped thyme or:
1/2 ts Dried thyme
2 c  Mixed diced vegetables **
Chicken Dumplings:
1 lb Boneless, skinless chicken
-pieces
1 tb Finely minced garlic
1/2 ts Salt
1 ts Ground white pepper
1/2 c  Madeira or dry sherry
2    Egg whites
1 sm Onion, finely diced
12 sl French bread, cut from
-baguette, toasted
*(about 8 medium garlic heads), separated into cloves but unpeeled **
(such as zucchini, yellow squash,eggplant and green beans)

To prepare Garlic Soup: Heat 1 tablespoon olive oil in 2-quart pan
over medium heat. Add garlic and cook, stirring occasionally, until
skins start to turn golden, 15 to 20 minutes. Add onions and cook
until soft, another 5 minutes. Add broth, lemon, bay leaves and
thyme. Increase heat to high and bring to boil, then lower heat to
medium and simmer 30 minutes.

Meanwhile, heat remaining 1 tablespoon oil in small pan over medium
heat. Add vegetables. Cover and cook until soft, about 10 minutes.
Set aside.

To prepare Chicken Dumplings: Cut chicken into 2-ounce pieces and
place in food processor along with garlic, salt, pepper, Madeira and
egg whites. Pulse on and off until mixture is coarsely chopped.
Scrape into bowl. Add onion and mix well. Set aside.

Remove soup from heat. Discard bay leaves and lemon. Puree mixture in
food processor or blender. Strain soup through strainer or pass
through food mill into clean pan. Return to a simmer.

Use a tablespoon to drop dollops of Chicken Dumplings into simmering
garlic soup, creating 12 dumplings. Cover and cook 8 minutes.

Ladle soup into serving bowls at the table. Garnish soup bowls with
reserved vegetables and toasted bread.

Per serving, without bread: 355 calories (28 percent from protein, 46
percent from carbohydrate, 25 percent from fat), 26 grams protein, 37
grams carbohydrate, 10 grams fat, 36 milligrams cholesterol, 243
milligrams sodium.

Exchanges: 6 1/2 vegetable, 2 1/2 meat, 1 fat.

Michael Roberts writing in the Oregonian FOODday, 1/12/93.

Posted by Stephen Ceideburg

