Title: QUAIL BREASTS & TRUFFLE SALAD
Categories: Poultry
Yield: 4 Servings
Herb vinaigrette (see below)
Truffle juice vinaigrette
-(see below)
32    Asparagus tips
50 g  Chanterelles   (cleaned)
12 qt Breasts
1    Or 2 uncooked yellow
-zucchini (sliced into 48
-very thin circles)
1 lg Tomato (brunoised)
15 g  Frisee lettuce (cleaned)
12    Italian parsley leaves
30 g  Truffle (sliced into 12
-very thin circles)
Butter
Seasoning - salt, pepper,
-chicken stock
White wine
The remaining recipes are Western and somewhat Frenchified to my eyes.
They're "nouveaux" at the very least. Little dabs of food artfully
arranged here and there on a plate, sometimes connected by skeins of
sauces. Expensive too.  This one calls for chanterelles and 30 grams
of truffles, a little over an ounce.

Establishment: The Regent Hotel (Hong Kong) Salisbury Road,
Tsimshatsui, Kowloon. Western Cuisine Practical Class Gold Award -
Hors d'oeuvre Chef: Patrick Lin (The Regent Hotel)

To prepare: 1. Make herb vinaigrette from onion, chives, Italian
parsley, parsley and a pinch of tarragon, all finely chopped
together. (Keep some chopped herbs aside to use in chanterelles
preparation ~ see below.) Add salt, pepper, walnut oil, sherry and
vinegar, according to taste.

2.  Make truffle juice vinaigrette from bottled truffle juice, salt,
olive oil and vinegar.  (For both vinaigrettes recommended ratio of
oil to vinegar is 2:1.)

3.  Cut asparagus tips off stems with slanting cuts (so that they will
stand up at an angle in central garnish.)

To cook: 1. Lightly salt chanterelles and saute over a low flame in
butter, with a drop of white wine, a few drops of chicken stock, and
a mixture of the same herbs that were used to make herb vinaigrette
(see above).

2.  Reduce sauteed mixture completely, and then marinate chanterelles
in herb vinaigrette for 30 minutes.

3.  Clean quail breasts and season with salt and pepper. In a
restaurant kitchen they would be grilled ~ for home cooking, pan-fry
in hot melted butter quickly for about one minute top and bottom
until they are golden brown all over.

To present: 1. Create central garnish by arranging a wheel of eleven
overlapping yellow zucchini slices, placing a small heap of tomato
brunoise on one central slice. Place asparagus tips pointing outwards
from centre.

2.  Create three distinct islands of chanterelles topped with frisee
lettuce and Italian parsley.  Place three truffle slices between
chanterelle islands and lay one quail breast on each. Pour a little
truffle juice vinaigrette over quails and central garnish, and a
little herb vinaigrette over lettuce.

Makes 4 servings.

From "Champion Recipes of the 1986 Hong Kong Food Festival". Hong Kong
Tourist Association, 1986.

Posted by Stephen Ceideberg; October 28 1992

