Title: QUICK CINNAMON ROLLS
Categories: Breads, Microwave
Yield: 18 Servings
1 c  Water
1 c  Milk
1/2 c  Butter
6 1/2 c  All-purpose flour
1/2 c  Sugar
3/4 ts Salt
2    Envelopes Instant Yeast
1    Large Egg
4 tb Butter
4 tb Brown sugar
2 tb Honey
1/4 c  Butter, softened
Combine water, milk and butter in a bowl and microwave on full power
for 90 seconds to 2 minutes (120 to 125 degrees F on candy
thermometer). Combine 2 cups flour, sugar, salt and yeast in food
procesor or mixer and process or mix for 10 seconds to mix well. With
processor or mixer running, pour the warm liquid into the flour, add
the egg and process for 20 seconds. Stop processor and add 2 1/2 cups
of flour, process 40 seconds. If using mixer, switch to dough hook
and mix for 2 minutes. Turn sticky dough onto floured board.
Gradually add enough of the rest of the flour and knead only until
the dough is not sticky but is still soft. Cover with a mixing bowl
and let rest 15 minutes. It should be bubbling happily by then.
Generously grease 2 8 inch square or round pans. Melt 2 Tablespoons
of butter in each pan and add 2 Tablespoons of brown sugar and 1
Tablespoon of honey. Sprinkle cinnamon over butter mixture. Divide
the dough in half. Roll 1 half into a 10 x 20 inch rectangle on a
floured board. Brush with the softened butter and spread with
cinnamon and brown sugar. Roll up like a jelly roll stretch slightly
by pulling on the ends to even thickness. Press lightly along edge to
seal. Using a floured knife, cut into rolls. Place in prepared pan
with cut sides down. Repeat with other half. Cover with clean
tea-towel and place in an unheated oven with a pan of hot water on
the bottom rack. Let rise for 40 minutes. Before baking, remove pan
of water and rolls. Heat oven to 375 F. Bake rolls for 20 to 25
minutes or until just golden brown. Turn out onto tray or piece of
waxed paper. Tips: Use a candy thermometer to check temperature of
water. May be proofed in the microwave on low for 10 minutes instead
of in regular oven. Let dough rest for 15 minutes before baking. A
1000 watt microwave was used, times may need to be adjusted.
Sometimes, 40 minutes rising is too long, if the dough starts to look
like it is going to overflow then cook it right away. Nuts, raisins
or cherries may be added either to the pan or spread over the dough
before rolling.

