Title: RAINBOW RIBBONS REFRIGERATOR COOKIES
Categories: Cookies
Yield: 4 Dozen
3 1/2 c  Flour
1 c  Sugar
1 c  Margarine or butter,
-softened
1 ts Vanilla extract
1/2 ts Salt
2 lg Eggs
1 ts Instant espresso coffee
-powder
2 ts Hot tap water
2 tb Cocoa
1/2 ts Anise extract
Green food coloring
Red food coloring
4    Hours or 1 week ahead:
1. Combine first six ingredients in large mixer bowl. Beat on low
speed until well blended. Divide dough into thirds; place each in a
bowl.

2. In a cup, stir instant espresso and 2 teaspoons hot tap water until
dissolved. Stir espresso mixture and cocoa into one third of dough;
with hand, knead until well blended. To second third of dough, add
anise extract and enough green food coloring to tint dough a pretty
green; knead until well blended. To remaining dough, add enough red
food coloring to tint dough pink; knead until well blended. Shape
each dough into a ball; wrap each with plastic wrap and regrigerate 1
hour or until firm enough to handle (or, place dough in freezer 30
minutes).

3. On sheet of waxed paper* with floured rolling pin, roll pink dough
into 12 x 7 1/2" rectangle. On another sheet of waxed paper, roll
chocolate dough into 12 x 7 1/2" rectangle. On another sheet of waxed
paper, roll green dough into 12 x 7 1/2" rectangle. Invert chocolate
dough onto pink dough; invert green dough onto chocolate dough.

4. Fold dough into thirds: Starting from one 12-inch side, fold one
third of dough over middle one third; fold opposite one third over
both to make 12 x 2 1/2" rectangular log. Wrap dough in plastic wrap
and refrigerate 1 hour or until firm enough to slice (or place dough
in freezer 30 minutes).

5. Preheat oven to 400 degrees. Cut dough cross-wise into
1/4-inch-thick slices. Place slices, cut-side down, on ungreased
cookie sheets, about 1 inch apart. Bake 10 minutes or until very
lightly browned around edges. Remove to wire rack to cool. Store in
tightly covered container and use within 1 week.

* To keep waxed paper from slipping on counter, dampen counter
slightly with a sponge before laying down waxed paper.

