Title: RASPBERRY CURRANT COULIS (RODEGRUETT)
Categories: Desserts
Yield: 4 Servings
2 1/2 c  Red currants, stems removed,
-washed
1 1/4 c  Raspberries, washed
3 c  Water
1 c  To 1 1/2 c sugar (depending
-on tartness of the berries)
1/2    Vanilla bean
5 tb To 6 tb cornstarch,
-dissolved in 3/4 cup cold
-water
Cook the berries for 15 minutes in the water - until they are quite
soft. Press through a fine strainer; add to the fruit juice the sugar
and the vanilla scraped out of a slit bean, bring to a boil in a
non-reactive pot, and reduce while stirring vigorously. Add the
dissolved cornstarch to the sweetened fruit juice.  Bring to a boil
once more, then transfer the 'Rodegruett' to a glass baking dish that
has been rinsed with cold water. Chill in the refrigerator and serve.

Note:

Nowadays it is more customary to serve 'Rodegruett' in individual
bowls rather than a giant family-size trencher. Serve with cream,
cold milk, or cold Vanilla Sauce which only should be poured over the
'groats' before you're ready to eat.

Make sure the 'groats' are not too thick.  The correct consistency is
somewhere between that of a pudding and a puree (like thick pea
soup). When you first taste 'Rodegruett' made according to these
specifications, it may easily seem too sweet or the berry flavor may
seem a little overwhelming. However, bear in mind that after the
'groats' have cooled off a bit and milk or cream has been poured over
them, the taste will be considerably milder.

Variations:

Some or all of the strained berry pulp may be replace with an
equivalent amount of fruit juice, and quick-frozen berries or
preserves will do just about as well as fresh ones. Cherries,
morellos (sour cherries), and black currants are often used instead
of or in addition to red currants and raspberries. Many cooks like to
hold back some portion of the berries until after the straining so
they don't cook down like the others and you can still taste them
while eating the dish.

Tapioca is often used as a binding agent, and there are those who
maintain that this is the only 'authentic' method of making
'Rodegruett'. In Saxony and East Prussia, red griats have been made
with farina (semolina) for a number of years now, and since the words
for farina ('Griess') and groats ('Gruetze') are closely related,
sometimes even used interchangeably, it is no less possible that this
is in fact the 'original' version. All questions of authenticity
aside, a deluxe fortified 'Rodegruett' can be made by stewing the
berries in red wine or with some higher-proof alcoholic beverage.

Makes 4 to 6 servings.

From:  THE CUISINES OF GERMANY by Horst Scharfenberg, Simon &
Schuster/Poseidon Press, New York.  1989 Posted by: Karin Brewer,
Cooking Echo, 8/92

