Title: RASPBERRY-ALMOND LINZER COOKIES
Categories: Cookies, Nuts, German
Yield: 1 Servings
1 c  Blanched almonds (4 oz)
1 1/2 c  All purpose flour
12 tb Softened, unsalted butter
1/2 c  Sugar
1    Lemon
2 ts Vanilla
1    Egg white
1/8 ts Salt
1/3 c  Sliced, blanched almonds
1 c  Seedless raspberry jam
Confectioners sugar
The classic Viennese nut dough, Mandelmuerbteig, is used here to make
a 2-layer cookie, filled with raspberry preserves

Put Almonds and flour in the work bowl of a food processor, fitted
with the metal blade, and process until finely ground.  set aside.

Beat butter in med. bowl until lightened in color and texture, 2-3
minutes. Add sugar, continue beating until mixture is very light,
about 5 min. longer. Grate 1 tbsp lemon zest and beat in along with
vanilla Stir in flour mixture, being careful NOT to over mix. Form
the dough into a 1/2" thick disk.  Wrap in plastic and refrigerate
until firm (about 1 hour) May be refrigerated overnight

Line 2 baking sheets with parchment.  Cut dough into 4 even pieces;
set aside 3 pcs. Carefully roll out the dough 1/8" thick on a floured
surface. Cut out 1.5" circles with plain or fluted cookie cutter.
Press scraps of dough into a ball; roll and cut out more circles. To
form the cookie tops, cut out the centers of half of the dough
circles with a 1/2" canape cutter, or the bottom of a metal pastry
tip. Put cookie rings and bottoms 1/2" apart on baking sheet. Repeat
to cut out circles and rings from the remaining pieces of dough.

COOKING: Adjust oven racks to low and middle positions; heat oven to
325F Whisk the egg white with the salt.  Coarsely chop the almonds or
crush with rolling pin.  Brush the cookie tops with egg wash and
sprinkle with crushed almonds.  Bake until cookies are dry and very
lightly browned (12-15 min.)

If baking two sheets at the same time, switch them after 6 min to
ensure even cooking. Cool cookies on the baking sheet

Bring 1/2 C jam to a boil in a small saucepan, and simmer until
slightly thickened (5-8 min)  Brush the cookie bottoms with the jam,
and top with the cookie rings. Dust with confectioners' sugar.  Use a
small spoon or pastry bag fitted with a 1/4" tip to fill the holes
with the remaining jam.

These cookies can be stored in an airtight container, between layers
of waxed paper for up to 3 weeks.  I also freeze them for up to 1
month.

From:    BOBBIE KOPF

