Title: RASPBERRY CHOCOLATE TORTE
Categories: Desserts, Chocolate
Yield: 4 Servings
2 tb Plus 2 tsp margarine,
-divided
3/4 c  Matzo cake meal
1 1/2 oz Ground almonds, divided
8 lg Eggs
1/2 c  Granulated sugar, divided
1/4 c  Red raspberry jam
2 c  Raspberries, divided
2 oz Semisweet chocolate chips
Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Cut a sheet of wax peper into three
8-inch-diameter circles. Set 1 wax paper circle in bottom of each of
three 8-inch-diameter cake pans and spread 1 teaspoon margarine
evenly over wax paper and up the sides of each pan; set aside. In
small bowl combine matzo cake meal and 1 ounce almonds; set aside.
Using electric mizer, in large mixing bowl beat egg yolks with 1/2
cup sugar until thick and lemon colored and mixture doubles in
volume, about 5 minutes. Using clean beaters, in separate large
mixing bowl beat egg whites and almond mixture until combined (do not
beat or stir). Pour 1/3 of batter into each prepared pan, spreading
batter to smooth surface. Bake until cakes are golden, 15 to 20
minutes (top should spring back when touched lightly with finger).
Let cakes cool in pans for 5 minutes; remove cakes from pans and
gently peel off wax paper. Allow cakes to cool completely on a wire
rack. In small saucepan heat jam over low heat until melted; let cool
slightly. Add 1 cup raspberries to jam and stir to coat; set aside in
small saucepan chocolate and remaining 1 tablespoon plus 2 teaspoons
margarine and cook over low heat, stirring frequently, until
chocolate is melted and mixture is combined; set aside. Set 1 cake on
serving plate and spread half of the jam mixture over top of cake;
set another cake over filling and top with remaining jam mixture. Set
remaining cake over filling and spread chocolate mixture evenly over
top of cake, letting chocolate mixture drip down the sides. Sprinkle
remaining 1/2 ounce almonds over top and garnish with remaining cup
raspberries. This makes 4 servings.

From: Steve Herrick Source: [Best Recipes March/April 1991]

