Title: RED CHILI NIGHTMARE
Categories: None
Yield: 4 Servings
1 c  Pinto beans,dried
5 c  Water
2 tb Lard
1 tb Bacon drippings
1    Onion
12 oz Pork sausage,country-style
1 lb Beef,coarse grind
4    Garlic cloves
1 ts Anise
1/2 ts Coriander seeds
1/2 ts Fennel seeds
1/2 ts Cloves,ground
1    Cinnamon stick,ground,1"
1 ts Black pepper,freshly ground
1 ts Paprika
1    Nutmeg,ground,whole
1 ts Cumin
2 ts Oregano,dried,pref. Mexican
4 tb Sesame seeds
1 c  Almonds,blanched,skins remov
12    Red chiles,whole dried or
1 1/2 c  Chile caribe
1 1/2 oz Milk chocolate,small pieces
1 cn Tomato paste(6oz ea)
2 tb Vinegar
3 ts Lemon juice
1    Soft tortilla,chopped
Salt
1. Place the rinsed beans in a bowl, add 2 to 3 cups of water and soak
overnight. Check the beans occasionally and add water as necessary to
keep them moist.
2. Pour the beans and the water in which they were soaked into a heavy
saucepan and add 2 to 3 more cups of water. Bring to a boil over
medium-high heat, then lower heat and simmer, partially covered, for
about 45 minutes, until the beans are cooked but still firm. Check
occasionally and add water if necessary. Drain the beans, reserving
the cooking liquid.
3. Melt the lard in a heavy skillet over medium heat. Add the beans
and lightly fry them in the lard. Set aside.
4. Melt the drippings in a large heavy pot over medium heat. Add the
onion and cook until it is translucent.
5. Combine the sausage and the beef with all the spices up through the
oregano. Add this meat-and-spice mixture to the pot with the onion.
Break up any lumps with a fork and cook, stirring occasionally, until
the meat is very well browned.
6. Add the reserved bean-cooking liquid to the pot. Stir in all the
remaining ingredients. Bring to a boil, then lower the heat and cook,
uncovered, for 1/2 hour longer. Stir occasionally. Add water only if
necessary to maintain the consistency of a chunky soup.
7. Taste when curiosity becomes unbearable and courage is strong.
Adjust seasonings.

