Title: RED CREEK GOURMET BEEF JERKEY ROUNDS
Categories: Meats, Preserving
Yield: 1 Recipe
5 lb Whole eye of round
7 oz Red Creek Jerky Marinade
Coarse ground black pepper
Large bowl
-OR-
Gallon-size zip lock bags
Wax paper
Rolling Pin
Dehydrator
-OR- Conventional Oven
Aluminum Foil if using oven
This recipe is from the Red Creek Marinade Company

1. Place meat slices into a large bowl or a gallon-sized zip lock
freezer bag. Pour 1 to 1 1/2 oz. Red Creek Jerkey Marinade per pound
of meat over the slices. Be sure to vigorously shake the bottle of
marinade prior to pouring.

2. Work marinade into meat so that each slice is thoroughly exposed to
marinade and place in refrigerator for three to four hours. At this
stage, slices can be marinated up to 24 hours if desired. Meat should
absorb all of marinade. If not, use a colander to drain any remaining
marinade from meat.

3. If additional black pepper is desired, lay meat slices out flat on
waxed paper, sprinkle with coarsely ground black pepper and roll
pepper in to the surface of the meat slices with a rolling pin or
"pat" it in by hand.

4. Continue with either the dehydrator method or oven method of
drying to the jerky stage.

Dehydrator Method:

Place marinated meat slices on dehydrator racks and dry to jerky stage
according to dehydrator manufacturer's diredtions. Length of drying
time will depend on size and type of dehydrator used, and whether or
not your dehydrator is constructed with a heating element only or
with both a heating element and fan. If your dehydrator has a
temperature gauge, dry at its maximum setting (but no more that 165
degrees). Check drying process periodically. It may be necessary to
rearrange placement of racks to insure even drying of meat slices.

Oven Method:

Place a layer of heavy duty aluminum foil or a large jelly roll pan
on the bottom oven rack to catch any drips or black pepper. Heat oven
to 165 degrees and place marinated meat slices in single layer
directly on oven racks. Dry meat slices with oven door slightyly ajar
so that moisture can escape, turning occasionally until meat is dried
to jerky stage.

Things to remember:

The thicker the meat is sliced, the longer the drying process will be.

Finish jerky yield will be less than raw meat yield.

Unless dried to 0 moisture level, refrigerate finished product.

* COOKFDN brings you this recipe with permission from: * Texas Beef
Council -- http://www.txbeef.org

