Title: RED SNAPPER A LA MEXICAINE
Categories: Fish
Yield: 6 Servings
6    Fresh red snapper filets
Salt
Freshly ground white pepper
Flour for dredging
4 tb Olive oil
3 lg Shallots, finely minced
3 lg Garlic cloves, finely
-chopped
6    Ripe tomatoes, peeled,
-seeded & chopped
2 tb Finely chopped fresh herbs
-(oregano, thyme & chervil)
1    Ripe avocado
1 ts Lime juice
1 ds Tabasco
MMMMM--------------------------OPTIONAL-------------------------------
1    Beurre Manie*
1 tb Tomato paste
MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
Avocado slices
Lime slices
Fresh mint leaves
* Beurre Manie is used to thicken sauces.  Combine 1 T flour and 1 T
sweet butter on a small flat plate and blend the mixture with a fork
into a very smooth paste. Roll the paste into a ball. Preheat oven to
350 degrees. Season the fish filets with salt and pepper and dredge
them lightly with flour, shaking off the excess. Heat the olive oil
in a large skillet and saute the filets over high heat for 2 or 3
minutes on each side. Remove them carefully to a flameproof baking
dish large enough to hold the fish in one layer. In the same oil,
saute the shallots and 2 cloves of garlic. When the shallots are
lightly browned, add the tomatoes and cook the mixture for 2 minutes.
Pour the mixture together with the herbs on top of the fish and cover
the disk with buttered wax paper. Bake in the oven for 25 to 30
minutes. While the fish is baking, mash the avocado in a small mixing
bowl, adding lime juice, salt, pepper, a little Tabasco, and the
remaining clove of garlic. Do not mash it too fine; it should have
some small chunks left in it. When the fish is ready, lift it out
carefully onto a platter. Place the baking dish over direct heat and
reduce the juices by 1/3. If a Beurre Manie is used for thickening,
add it bit by bit before adding the avocado puree. Add the optional
tomato paste. Lower the heat and beat in the mashed avocado. Once the
avocado puree has been added, do not let the mixture come to a boil.
Correct the seasoning and pour the sauce over the fish. Garnish with
avocado slices, lime slices and mint leaves.

