Title: REINO'S KALAMOIIKA
Categories: Soups/stews, Seafood, Ethnic
Yield: 6 Servings
2 lb Fresh or frozen salmon
1 1/4 tb Salt
1/2 ts Pepper
2    Bay leaves
6    Whole allspice
4 md Potatoes
2 md Carrots
3 sm Onions, divided
1 c  Red cabbage, sliced
1    Handful fresh celery leaves,
-chopped
5 sl Bacon
1 1/2 tb Butter
1 c  Celery, diced fine
1/2    Green bell pepper, diced
-fine
1    6 1/2 oz can minced clams
1 qt Water
1    6 1/2 oz can shrimp (small
-or broken)
1/2 cn Pimento, chopped fine
1 c  Chopped fresh mushrooms
1/2 ts Rosemary leaves
1/2 ts Ground cumin
1/4 ts Ground thyme
1/4 ts Ground oregano
4    Crushed chili tepins (a hot
-dried pepper)
1 qt Milk
1 tb Butter
Source: FOODday, June 18, '91 - Reino Koski "Makes a good gallon"

Note:  This was the Grand Prize Winner in the first of The Oregonian-
James Beard recipe contests, held in 1975. The winner's name was
Reino Koski. This is a Finnish soup.

Use any cut salmon or steelhead, leaving skin on.  In 1 quart water,
with salt and pepper, simmer on low heat in 5- or 6-quart pot. When
skin comes off easily, set aside on plate and remove skin and bones.
Cut or break into 1- and 2-inch pieces.  In liquid stock, place bay
leaves and whole allspice.  Add potatoes, cut in 1- or 1 1/2-inch
pieces; carrots, cut lengthwise and into half circles about 1/4-inch
thick; and 2 onions cubed coarsely (not chopped fine).  Cook over low
heat. After a short while, add red cabbage and celery leaves. Stir.
Cook until carrots are almost tender and potatoes don't disintegrate.

While this is cooking, dice bacon and cook in fry pan over low heat.
Pour almost all fat off.  Add butter (or margarine) and diced celery,
remaining onion (diced fine) and green pepper. Saute' until onions
are yellow and peppers are pale green.  Now back to your pot. Add
salmon pieces, (they should be not quite cooked). From now on
everything is simmered on low to preserve body.  Add clams with
broth, shrimp and 1 quart water. Put in stuff from fry pan.  Add
pimento, mushrooms, rosemary, cumin, thyme, oregano and chilies. Stir
in milk a cup at a time. Add butter and let whole bit simmer for at
least one hour.  Serve with tossed salad and garlic bread.  Can be
frozen.

Posted by Valerie Whittle. Courtesy of Fred Peters.

