Title: RHUBARB STRAWBERRY NUT TART
Categories: Dessert, Tart
Yield: 1 Pie
BROWN BUTTER SUGAR CRUST:
3/4 c  Unsalted butter-1 1/2 sticks
2 c  All-purpose flour
1/4 c  Granulated sugar
1/2 ts Salt
1    Lemon,finely grated zest
3    Egg yolks,hard-cooked,chill
& mash
1 lg Egg
2 tb Water
FILLING:
1 c  Walnuts,hazelnuts or pecans
- finely ground
1 c  Granulated sugar
1/4 c  All-purpose flour
1 tb Grated orange zest
2 c  Rhubarb,cut in 1/2" pieces
2 c  Whole small strawberries,or
Halved larger strawberries
(1 pint  = 2 cups)
TOPPING:
1/2 c  Firmly packed brown sugar
1 ts Ground cinnamon
1 c  All-purpose flour
1/2 c  Unsalted butter,softened
To prepare the crust: In a small saucepan melt the butter and watch
carefully, cook for about 5 minutes, shaking the pan occasionally,
until the butter turns golden. Pour into a small heatproof bowl and
resolidify in the refrigerator or freezer until firm. Then cut into
small pieces.

In a food processor combine the flour, sugar, salt and lemon zest.
Add the hard-cooked egg yolks and process until incorporated into the
flour. Add the whole egg and process; add just enough water to hold
the dough together. DO NOT OVERWORK THE DOUGH OR IT WILL BE TOUGH.
(You can also combine the dough by hand.)

Spray a 9-inch deep-dish pie pan or quiche dish with vegetable cooking
spray (i.e.,PAM). Press the dough onto the bottom and up the sides of
the pan. Set aside.

To prepare the filling: Spread the nuts over the dough in the pan.
Combine the sugar, flour, orange zest, rhubarb and strawberries in a
bowl. Set aside while preparing the topping.

To prepare the topping: Combine the brown sugar,cinnamon and flour.
Add the butter and work together to form coarse crumbs.

Stir the fruit and pour into the crust. Sprinkle the topping over the
filling and place tart on a baking sheet.

Place on the lowest oven rack of a preheated 400 degree F. oven and
bake 50 minutes, until the juices are bubbly and the crust is browned.

Let cool on a rack before serving.

Serves: 10-12 Source: Desserts with a Difference by Sally and Martin
Stone

From the recipe files of suzy@gannett.infi.net 1996

