Title: RICH CREAM - KAYMAKI
Categories: Misc
Yield: 1 Servings
1 qt Heavy cream
Thick rich eastern Mediterranean "kaymaki" (literally, "frothy
cream") is unique, but two more readily available products have a
similar flavor and texture. Imported English clotted (Devon) cream
and Italian mascarpone cheese both make good substitutes, or you cna
make your own. Make this when you plan to be in the kitchen for a
couple of hours - for an even smooth texture and a thick crust you
need to stir the hot cream at regular intervals.  Be sure to use
meticulously clean utensils and keep the cooking heat very low (or
use a heat diffuser mat). Kaymaki should be made at least 18 hours
before you need it; it can be stored for up to a week. Slowly bring
the cream almost to a boil in a heavy saucepan, stirring occasionally
with a wooden spoon. Reduce the heat to as low as possible, or place
the saucepan on a heat diffuser mat.  Lift a ladleful of cream about
12 inches above the saucepan, and pour it back in a thin steady
stream; repeat 2 or 3 times. Repeat this procedure every 10 minutes
or so over the next 1-1/2 hours, and stir the cream occasionally to
make sure it does not stick. Leave the cream undisturbed over the
lowest heat for 30 minutes longer; it will have reduced by at least
two thirds. Remove the saucepan from the heat and let cool. Loosely
cover with a clean kitchen towel and set aside for 2 hours. Remove
the kitchen towel, tightly cover, and refrigerate for at least 12
hours, or overnight. Cut the crust on top of the cream into
1-inch-wide strips.  Gently fold one end of a strip over the handle
of a wooden spoon and roll it up (cut in half if the roll becomes too
thick or unwieldy), and slide off onto a plate. Repeat with the
remaining strips. The remaining kaymaki will have the texture of
thick airless cream. It can be refrigerated in a tightly covered
container of up to 1 week; refrigerate the rolls for up to 3 days.
Note: Serve kaymaki rolls on their own or with desserts such as
Kataifi Nut Rolls or Almond Cake. Kaymaki cream can be added to ice
cream or rice pudding for an especially good flavor. Or whisk it
together with a little sweet wine or lemon juice for a perfect
accompaniment to fresh or poached fruit or sweet pastries.

