Title: RICH EGG PIZZA DOUGH
Categories: Pizza
Yield: 6 Servings
4 tb Sweet butter, cut into 4
-pieces
2 tb Sugar
1/4 c  Instant nonfat dry milk
-powder
3/4 c  Water
1 pk Active dry yeast
4 1/2    To 5 cups all purpose white
-flour
1 ts Salt
3    Extra large eggs, beaten
"For an elegant change of pace, this rich brioche-like dough makes a
thick, utterly delicious pizza crust. French Provencale pizza or
pissaladiere fillings are exceptionally good on it. Its most
spectacular presentation though, comes in the form of torta rustica
with its majestic crown of dough leaves and multilayered colorful
filling. This dough is characteristically soft.  Work it only until
it no longer sticks to your fingers. For an extra golden, shiny
finish, brush a thin coating of egg white glaze (1 egg white beaten
with a Tbsp of water) over the top of the dough."

1. Put the butter, sugar, dry milk powder, and water in a small
saucepan. Stir briefly to dissolve the solids and heat the mixture
over medium heat until bubbles begin to appear around the sides of
the pan. Remove from the heat and pour the mixture into a large
mixing bowl.

2. When the liquid mixture no longer feels too hot to the touch( no
more than 130 degrees)sprinkle the yeast over it and stir with a fork
until the yeast dissolves.

3. Stir in 2 cups of the flour, the salt, and eggs with a wooden
spoon.

4. Add about a cup of flour 1/2 cup at a time, stirring until the
dough forms a soft, sticky mass and comes away from the sides of the
bowl.

5. Dust your hands and the work surface liberally with some of the
remaining flour.  Remove the dough form the bowl and knead in the
remaining flour a bit at a time, until the dough is smooth and
elastic and no longer sticks to your hands.  Don't try to push all of
the flour into the dough. You may not need it all.

6. Roll the dough around in an oiled bowl, cover the bowl tightly with
plastic wrap, and let it rise in a warm, draft-free place until it has
doubled in bulk (about 1 hour).

7. Punch the dough down, knead it briefly, and return it to the bowl.
Recover with plastic wrap and let it double again before using (This
dough must go through
2    risings.)

8. After the dough has doubled in bulk a second time, it is ready to
be rolled or pressed into shape. Note: For thicker crust, let the
dough rise in a prepared pizza pan for 30 minutes before baking. This
dough should not be baked at temperatures above "400 degrees" or it
will burn.

Source: The Pizza Book by Evelyne Sloman Posted by Linda Davis

