Title: RICH CHICKEN STOCK
Categories: Soups, Ceideburg 2
Yield: 6 Servings
7 1/2 lb Whole chicken and parts,
-such as backs, feet, wings
6 qt Cold water
8 sl Unpeeled fresh ginger
8    Whole scallions, cut into
-pieces
2 ts Salt
Stock is the foundation of all good cooking.  I emphasize this
because it is so important a principle. Good stock, especially
chicken stock, is necessary for the cuisine of Hong Kong, whose
subtle flavors, fresh ingredients, and fast cook cooking techniques
require very good stock. Light, flavorful, and versatile chicken
stock should be considered a staple, to set beside salt, cooking oil,
or soy sauce.

There are commercially prepared canned or cube stocks but many of
them are of inferior quality, being either too salty or containing
additives and colorings that adverse affect your health as well as
the natural taste of good foods.  Make your own, it is the best. You
can make a big batch and freeze it for your own use when needed. In
making a good stock, here are a few rules to remember:

* It is best to use about 50 percent bones and 50 percent meat.
Without meat, the stock will not have the necessary body or richness
or depth of flavor and will taste watery. Stewing old hens is best if
you can find them, because they are inexpensive and full of flavor.

* Stock should simmer.  Never let the stock come to a boil because
that will result in a cloudy and heavy stock. Flavors and digest-
ibility come with a clear stock.

* Use a tall heavy pot so the liquid covers all the solids and
evaporation is slow.

* Simmer on low heat and gently skim the stock every now and then to
remove any impurities.

* Strain the stock slowly through several layers of cheese cloth or a
fine mesh strainer.

* Allow the stock to cool thoroughly before storing in the re-
frigerator or freezer.

If you make a habit of saving your uncooked chicken bones and
carcasses, you will have the essential ingredients for stock in no
time. It makes good economical sense also.

The stock should be rich and full-bodied, which is why it needs to be
simmered for such a long time.  This way the stock (and any soup you
make with it) will have plenty of taste. With a good, stock, you will
also get good sauces for a true taste of Hong Kong!

Cut up the chicken and put the pieces and parts together into a very
large pot.  Cover them with the cold water and bring the stock to a
simmer. Using a large, flat spoon, gently skim off the scum as it
rises from the bones. Watch the heat as the stock should never, boil.
Keep skimming until the stock looks clear. This can take from 30 to
40 minutes. Do not stir or disturb the stock.

Turn the heat down to a low simmer and add the ginger, scallions, and
salt. Simmer the stock on a very low heat for at least 3 hours,
skimming any fat off the top at least twice during this time. Strain
the stock through several layers of dampened cheesecloth or through a
very fine mesh strainer, and then let it cool thoroughly. Remove any
fat that has risen to the top. It is now ready to be used or
transferred to containers and frozen for future use.

Makes 6 quarts.

From "Fragrant Harbor Taste", Ken Hom, 1989 Fireside (Simon and
Schuster), New York.  ISBN 0-671-75444-0.

Posted by Stephen Ceideberg;

