Title: RICH FLOURLESS CHOCOLATE TORTE
Categories: Tvfn
Yield: 4 Servings
1 c  Granulated sugar
1 1/2 c  Light corn syrup
20 oz Good quality semisweet
Chocolate, preferably French
Or Belgian
Cut into small pieces plus,
8 oz Additional
Chocolate
2    Sticks (16 tablespoons)
Unsalted butter
10    Whole eggs
1/2 c  Heavy cream
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees.

In a heavy bottomed pot, combine the sugar and corn syrup and bring
to a boil.  Reduce the heat to low and cook for 5 minutes.  Remove
from the heat.  Melt the 20 ounces chopped chocolate in the top of a
double boiler over simmering water.  Stir the chocolate occasionally
as it melts. Remove the pan from the heat and stir in the butter. Set
aside to cool slightly. With an electric mixer, beat the eggs at high
speed until frothy. Lower the speed to medium and carefully pour the
hot syrup into the beaten eggs. Add the melted chocolate and butter
mixture and blend to a smooth consistency. Butter a 10 inch to 12inch
round cake pan lightly and pour in the chocolate mixture.  Set the
cake pan into a larger pan (such as a roasting pan) and add hot water
to rise halfway up the sides of the cake pan. Place in the preheated
oven and bake about 45 to 50 minutes.

Being very careful not to scald yourself or get water into the torte,
remove the pans from the oven, and remove the cake pan from the water
bath. Cool the torte completely to room temperature before unmolding.
Run a sharp knife around the inner circumference of the pan. Place a
plate over the pan, invert, and, if necessary, tap the bottom of the
pan with the knife handle to encourage the torte to release.

The torte should then be refrigerated for at least 3 hours before
serving. While the torte is cooling, place the heavy cream in a thick
bottomed pot and begin to heat gently.  Add the remaining 8 ounces of
chocolate, stir together while the chocolate begins to melt in the
hot cream. Being careful not to burn, boil or scorch the chocolate,
when the chocolate has melted almost entirely, remove from the heat
and allow to cool for several minutes before pouring over the torte
for a glossy "finish". Place the unmolded torte on a baking rack with
a cookie sheet underneath, and pour slightly cooled chocolate ganache
directly onto the center of the torte in one motion so that it will
flow out in one smooth sheet over the top and sides of the torte.
You can gently help this along with the aid of a spatula but is
important to use still warmed ganache.

Allow to dry a few moments at room temperature.  Then place the torte,
baking rack, and cookie sheet into the refrigerator to chill
completely and set firm.  If you haven't overheated the chocolate or
cream, this "ganache" will set and harden into a shiny "couverture"
during the hour the torte is chilling in the refrigerator.

Yield: 10 to 12 portions

MICHAEL'S PLACE SHOW #ML1A18

