Title: RISOTTO CON PESCE GATTO E ERBA CIPOLLINA (L A
Categories: Italian, Rice, Fish
Yield: 4 Servings
Juice of 1/2 lemon
1    Celery stalk, chopped
1/2    Carrot, chopped
1/2    Head fennel, chopped
1 3/4 lb Catfish fillets
Fish or vegetable stock
5 tb Unsalted butter
1/2    Onion, finely chopped
Salt, pepper
1    Cipollotto (wild onion or
-green onion) finely chopped
9 oz Vialone Nano rice-see recipe
2 tb White wine
2 tb Chopped chives
Typed by Manny Rothstein
(Another recipe from Del Pescatore, along the banks of the Oglio
River and in the small village of Runate, Italy. This is one of the
house specialties, risotto made with wild onions and catfish.)MR

Antonio Santini is adamant about using Vialone Nano rice for this
dish, but arborito will work almost as well. If you can find those
little onions that look like scallions but have very rounded bulbs
(cipollotti), use those for a more assertive onion flavor and cut the
final amount of chives in half.
In pot bring 4 cups water to boil with lemon, celery, carrot and
fennel. Reduce to simmer and add catfish. Cook at bare simmer until
just flaking, about 6 to 10 minutes. Remove fish from poaching
liquid. Reserve poaching liquid, adding enough fish stock or water to
make 5 cups. Keep at boil for cooking risotto.
While fish is poaching, melt 2 tb butter over med. heat in skillet.
Add onion and cook slowly, stirring, until onion is very tender. When
onion is tender, add fish and cook several minutes more. Season to
taste with salt and pepper. Let cool. When fish is cool, chop coarsly.
In separate saute pan, cook wild onion in 1 tb butter over med.
heat with dash salt and 2 tb water. When water evaporates, add rice
and cook cook several minutes, until rice makes a dry "singing" sound
when stirred. Add 1 cup boiling stock and cook, stirring until almost
all stock is absorbed by rice. Repeat, 1 cup at time, until rice is
creamy and still bit chalky to bite, about 15 minutes. Add fish, wine
and chives and cook another 2 to 3 minutes. When rice is cooked al
dente, add remaining butter and stir vigorously so mixture becomes
creamier. Rice should have a slightly soupy consistancy. Makes 4
servings.

Each serving contains about: 648 calories; 260 mg sodium; 131 mg
cholesterol; 22 grams fat; 75 grams carbs.; 38 grams protein; 2.6
grams fiber. L A Times, 3/17/94.

