Title: RISOTTO WITH SHRIMP TOMATOES & SUN-DRIED TOMA
Categories: Seafood
Yield: 8 Servings
6    Plum tomatoes, cored
4 c  Chicken broth combined with
2 cups water
2 tb Butter
1 tb Olive oil
1/2 md Onion, peeled and finely
Chopped
1 md Clove garlic, peeled and
Minced
2 c  Arborio rice
1/4 c  Tomato pesto (see note)
1/4 ts Salt
Freshly ground black pepper
To taste
SHRIMP:
1 tb Olive oil
1 md Clove garlic, peeled and
Minced
2/3 lb Medium shrimp, peeled and
Deveined
1/3 c  Dry white wine
1/4 c  Chopped parley
10    Basil leaves, slivered
1/8 ts Salt
Freshly ground black pepper
To taste
1. To prepare the risotto: Bring a pan of water to the boil, add the
tomatoes and time 1 minute.  Drain and rinse briefly with cold water.
Peel, seed and coarsely chop.

2. Heat the broth-water combination in a saucepan on low heat. Keep
warm.

3. In a large skillet or pot, preferably nonstick, heat the butter and
olive oil over medium heat.  Add the onion and garlic; saute 5
minutes. Add the tomatoes and cook 5 minutes, until softened and
starting to break down. Stir in the rice, cooking for
2    minutes.

4. Slowly start to add the liquid, about a ladleful at a time. Cook
over low heat, stirring frequently. Wait until the liquid has been
absorbed each time before adding the next ladleful. The risotto
should cook in about 35 minutes.  (The finished risotto should be
creamy, with a little bite at the center of the rice.) Stir in the
sun-dried pesto during the last 10 minutes of cooking time.  Stir in
the salt and pepper.

5. When the risotto is almost done, start the shrimp. Heat the olive
oil over medium heat.  When hot, add the garlic and cook 30 seconds.
Cook the shrimp until pink, curled and cooked through. Remove the
shrimp with a slotted spoon to a plate.  Add the wine and boil until
thickened to about 2 tablespoons.  Put the shrimp back into the pan,
stirring to coat. Stir in the parsley, basil, salt and pepper.

6. Spoon the shrimp over the risotto and serve.

Note: The Cibo brand of sun-dried pesto used in this recipe can be
found in the refrigerator section of major supermarkets.

Data per serving: Calories.....353 Carbohydrates.....47g
Monounsaturated fat....7g Protein......14g Sodium..........683mg
Saturated fat......4g
Polyunsaturated fat....1g Fat..........12g
Cholesterol..........67mg

(From "Cucina del Mare" by Evan Kleiman) Submitted By CHERYL
<FEATHERS@ESKIMO.COM>  On   SUN, 4 JUN 1995 184615 ~0700 (PDT)

