Title: RISOTTO WITH SEAFOOD & DILL
Categories: Main dish, Fish, Seasonings
Yield: 8 Servings
1 lb Medium shrimp (16-24 count)
3 lb Assorted bivalves (in shell)
-- such as Manila clams,
-- small mussels, & scallops
1 c  Dry white wine
Water
1 bn Dill
1 sm Onion; finely diced
1    Bay leaf
1 qt Fish broth; -OR-
16 oz -Bottled clam juice
3 tb Olive oil
2 tb Unsalted butter
1 sm Onion; coarsely chopped
3    Garlic cloves; minced
2 c  Arborio rice
4    Green onions; trimmed with
-- about 4" green and cut
-- in 1/2-inch lengths
Salt
Freshly ground pepper
Lemon wedges (optional)
1 c  Freshly grated Parmesan
-- (optional)
Shell and devein the shrimp, rinsing only if necessary. Reserve the
shells to enhance the broth.

Heat the other shellfish, once kind at a time, in the wine in a
tightly covered pan.  Remove them as they open to a dish.

Strain the shellfish liquor into a pot through a sieve lined with
rinsed white paper toweling or tripled cheesecloth. Add the shrimp
shells, about 2 cups of water, three or four dill sprigs, the
coarsely chopped onion, bay leaf, and fish broth or clam juice.
Simmer about 15 minutes, then strain and measure the broth. You
should have at least 2 quarts; add wine or water if necessary to
equal this amount. Add salt and pepper to taste. Heat the broth to
just below a simmer and keep warm.

Meanwhile, saute the shrimp in 1 tablespoon of olive oil for about
1-1/2 minutes, or until just pink. Transfer the shrimp to the dish
with the other shellfish.

Place the remaining olive oil and butter in a large casserole that
can be used on the stove, cover, and sweat the diced onion and garlic
over medium-low heat. When the onion is softened, add the rice, stir
well, and reduce the heat.  Saute the rice gently for about 10
minutes, then stir in about 2 cups of broth.  Raise the heat again to
medium-low. Continue stirring the risotto and adding more broth,
about 1/2 cup at a time, as soon as the previous addition of liquid
has been absorbed.

Meanwhile, remove the leaves from five or six dill sprigs and chop
them.

The risotto will be creamy and the rice al dente when it is done, in
16 to 20 minutes.  Two or three minutes before this point, stir in
the bivalves, then the shrimp, chopped dill, and green onions if
desired. When the dish is heated through, remove it from the heat and
add salt and pepper. If the risotto is too thick, add more hot broth.
Serve immediately. Pass lemon wedges and cheese if desired.

* Source: The Herb Companion, August/September 1993 * Typos by: Karen
Mintzias

