Title: RISOTTO DI ZUCCA
Categories: Rice, Vegetarian
Yield: 6 Servings
3 c  Onions, yellow; sliced
1 md Kabocha squash; cubed*
1 1/2 tb Olive oil
1 tb Butter
1    Clove garlic; chopped
1 ts Salt
1 ts Sage, dried
5 c  Vegetable broth
1 1/2 c  Arborio rice
1/4 c  Marsala wine
3/4 c  White wine
1 tb Balsamic vinegar
Fresh ground black pepper
1/4 c  Parmesan cheese; grated
* 2 1/4 pounds, or about 3-4 cups cubed. If kabocha squash is
unavailable, you can use buttercup squash, one of the hubbards, or a
couple of acorn squashes. Avoid the blander varieties such as
butternut and banana squashes -- you want rich, sweet flavor for this.

Peel the onions and cut them in quarters, then slice them crosswise.
Peel the Kabocha squash, cutting away any dark-green parts, seed it,
and cut the firm yellow flesh into 1/2-inch cubes.

Heat the oil and butter in a large, preferably non-stick saute pan.
Add the onions and chopped garlic and stir over high heat for 3-4
minutes, then add the cubed squash, salt, and sage. Continue cooking
on medium-high heat, stirring often, until the vegetables are spotted
with golden brown and the squash is becoming tender -- about 15
minutes. Meanwhile, heat the vegetable broth to a simmer.

Add the rice to the squash mixture and stir constantly for 2 minutes.
Add the Marsala, stir quickly as it cooks away, then add the white
wine.

When the wine has all been absorbed, add about a cup of the hot broth,
along with the balsamic vinegar. Lower the heat to a simmer and stir
the risotto gently with a wooden spoon. As the broth is absorbed, add
another ladle, and then another, always keeping the rice moist, and
stirring constantly or at least very often. Some of the squash will
fall apart into a puree.

Use as much broth as you need to achieve rice that is al dente,
tender but firm, with a creamy sauce around it. It will take about 30
minutes, but start tasting after 20 minutes.

At that point, correct the seasoning with a touch more salt and some
pepper if needed, and stir in about 1/4 cup of grated Parmesan
cheese. Add another 1/2 ladle of broth, stir well, and serve at once
in warmed, shallow bowls. Garnish each serving with slivers of fresh
basil, and pass more Parmesan cheese separately.

Source: "The New Vegetarian Epicure" by Anna Thomas

