Title: ROAST GINGER & GREEN ONION CRAB IN THE SHELL
Categories: Fish
Yield: 2 Servings
Stephen Ceideburg
1    Live Dungeness crab, about 2
-to 3 pounds
3 tb Peanut oil
1 ts Salt
Eight 1/2-inch knobs peeled
-fresh ginger, bruised
4    Garlic cloves, bruised
8    Green onions, cut into
-2-inch lengths
1 ts Sugar
1/4 ts White pepper
1/4 c  Dry vermouth or sherry
1 tb Dark soy sauce, or to taste
1/4 c  Chicken stock
1 ts Cornstarch mixed with 1
-tablespoon water
1 ts Asian sesame oil
Although this popular crab dish It's often called 'roasted' or
'baked', it is not. In restaurants, the cracked crab pieces are
briefly deep-fried, then quickly stir-fried and finished in a hot
wok. For the home cook, I have omitted the deep-frying step. Set up
finger bowls and containers for discarded shells. Serve with hot rice
and soup or salad.

Hold crab under cold running water and scrub with a vegetable brush,
paying special attention to the underside of the body and between the
legs.

To kill the crab, plunge it into a large stockpot of boiling water
for 1 minute, or place the crab upside down in a large bowl and cover
it with boiling water. When the air bubbles stop rising to the
surface, drain the crab and let cool until you can handle it.

If using cooked crab, omit this ,step and proceed to cleaning.

To clean cooked crab: Place crab on its back. With a knife tip lift
the apron or breastplate, the triangular-shaped flap on its
underside. Grab it and the spine; pull backward, twist and remove.
Grab the shell portion in one hand while gathering up all the legs
and claws in the other hand. Rock the legs back and forth, tearing
them away, from the shell. Pull off the feathery gills from both
sides of the chest, remove the mouth and mandibles from its face and
discard. Rinse crab with cold water. Blot dry. You may reserve the
tomalley, the green spongy matter in the body, for another use,
although state and federal authorities have advised against eating
the tomalley in this season's crab.

To crack crab: Bend and twist legs backward to remove. With a hammer
or nutcracker, crack the shell in the middle of each joint and claws,
and in the middle section on the edge side of each leg. Pat dry.
Using a cleaver or chef's knife, chop the body through the
midsection, dividing it into 2 halves, then each half crosswise into
thirds.

To "roast" crab: Preheat a wok over medium-high heat. Add oil, salt,
ginger and garlic and half the green onions; saute gently to release
the flavors. Using the backside of a spatula, crush the ingredients
against the side of the wok to squeeze out juices about 30 seconds,
or until fragrant.

Increase heat to high. Add crab claws and legs; stir-fry for 1
minute, or until shells turn bright orange, then toss in chest pieces
and cook together for another 2 minutes. Season with the sugar and
white pepper. While the wok is hot, splash the vermouth against
sides, then the soy sauce. There should be a sizzle and hiss. Toss
together for 10 seconds.

Add chicken stock; toss to mix. Scatter remaining green onions over
crab. Cover wok and "roast" or braise over high heat for 3 to 5
minutes, or until crab turns bright orange. (If using cooked crab,
braise for 1 minute, or until heated through). Shake wok occasionally
to redistribute crab.

Remove cover. Add cornstarch mixture in center of wok and stir until
thickened (about 10 seconds). When the sauce glazes the crab, fold in
sesame oil. Remove to a platter. If you prefer, discard ginger and
garlic. Serve immediately with steamed rice.

PER SERVING (6 servings): 115 calories, 7 g protein, 4 g
carbohydrate, 8 g fat (1 g saturated), 24 mg cholesterol, 641 mg
sodium, 0 g fiber.

Joyce Jue writing in the San Francisco Chronicle, 3/4/92.

Posted by Stephen Ceideburg

