Title: ROASTED-RED-ONION RAVIOLI
Categories: Italian, Pasta
Yield: 4 Servings
2/3    Recipe Egg Pasta (use 2 eggs
-and 1 1/3 cups flour)
ROASTED-RED-ONION FILLING
3 sm Red onions
1 tb Fresh thyme, minced (1 tsp
-dried)
1 tb Olive oil
Salt
Pepper
1 tb Balsamic or red wine vinegar
1    Egg
1/4 c  Parmesan cheese, grated
CREAM SAUCE
3/4 c  Heavy cream
2    Sprigs fresh thyme (1/2 tsp
-dried)
1 tb Butter
Salt
Pepper
PREPARATION:  Make the Egg Pasta and form into two balls; set aside.

For The Filling, heat oven to 375F.  Trim and halve the unpeeled
onions. Mince the thyme.  Toss the oil, onions, 1/2 teaspoon salt,
and the minced thyme in a shallow roasting pan. Roast onions, cut
side down, until brown, about 10 minutes.  Remove onions from pan and
set aside to cool. Add vinegar to pan and use wooden spoon to deglaze
the bottom. Peel and chop cooled onions.  In a small bowl, combine
onions, pan juices, and dried thyme, if using.  Season to taste with
salt and pepper. Whisk egg in a small bowl.  Roll both balls of dough
as thin as possible into 2 rectangular sheets.  Cover one with damp
towel and set aside. Lightly brush remaining sheet with the beaten
egg. Arrange 12 teaspoons of filling on top of dough, spaced about 2
inches apart. Cover with other sheet of dough and press firmly around
mounds of filling. Cut between the mounds with fluted ravioli cutter.
Put ravioli, well spaced, on lightly floured baking sheets or waxed
paper.  Refrigerate if not cooking immediately. Grate the cheese.
NOTE:  Recipe can be made to this point a few hours ahead.

COOKING AND SERVING:  For The Sauce, place cream and thyme in small
saucepan and bring to simmer over medium heat. Cook until cream is
reduced to 1/2 cup, about 5 minutes. Stir in the butter. Strain the
sauce and season to taste with salt and pepper.  Set aside and keep
warm. Cook ravioli in boiling, salted water until tender, about 6
minutes. Drain well. Toss ravioli with the Cream Sauce and grated
Parmesan cheese until lightly coated.  Serve immediately with
freshly-ground pepper.

Makes 4 side-dish servings

[COOKS  March-April  1988]

