Title: ROAST CHICKEN WITH SPICED MUSHROOM & WINTER
Categories: New import
Yield: 4 Servings
1    5 pound roasting chicken
3/4 c  Dry sherry
1 tb Flour
1/4 ts Salt
1/4 ts Freshly ground pepper
Stuffing:
1 md Onion, finely chopped
8 oz Mushrooms (one container),
Finely chopped
2 tb Butter, divided
1 c  Chicken broth, divided
1/2 ts Ground cinnamon, divided
1/2 ts Ground cumin, divided
1/2 ts Ground coriander, divided
1 c  Parsnips, coarsely grated
1 c  Carrots, coarsely grated
1/2 c  Finely chopped hazelnuts,
Lightly toasted
1 c  Bread crumbs, lightly
Toasted
1/8 ts Salt
1/8 ts Freshly ground pepper
Preheat oven to 400F. Rinse the chicken under cold running water;
drain. Salt and pepper inside of chicken cavity. Melt 1 tablespoon
butter and add 1/4 teaspoon each of cinnamon,cumin and coriander.
Brush mixture over chicken. Tie up legs securely with butcher's
string, set chicken on rack set into roasting pan and add 1/2 cup
chicken broth. Roast for
30    minutes.

While chicken is roasting, in a large saucepan over medium heat melt 1
tablespoon butter. Stir in onion and saute for 5 minutes, until
translucent. Stir in remaining spices and let them cook for about 1
minute, until aroma is released. Add the mushrooms, parsnips and
carrots; cook until all vegetables are tender and any excess liquid
had evaporated, about 6 minutes. Remove from heat and stir in
hazelnuts, bread crumbs and remaining chicken broth; add salt and
pepper. Place in ceramic or glass casserole dish.

Reduce oven temperature to 350F and continue to roast chicken for
another hour and 15 minutes, until meat thermometer registers 180F
when inserted between thigh and breast. Place stuffing in oven to
cook during last half hour of roasting. Check the roasting pan
periodically as the chicken cooks; if pan becomes dry, add water,
several tablespoons at a time. When doen, remove the chicken to a
serving platter and cover with foil.

Skim the fat off the juices left in roasting pan. Set pan over low
heat on hot plate, add sherry, stirring to scrape off any bits of
chicken stuck to the pan. Stir in flour to slightly thicken;
simmering for about 1 minute. Pour the pan juices into a gravy boat
or small pitcher. Uncover chicken; remove string from legs; carve and
serve with gravy and stuffing.. Makes
6    servings.

DECEMBER 4, 1996 Neighborhood Shopping Typos by Bobbie Beers

