Title: ROAST TURKEY WITH GRAVY
Categories: Main dish, Appetizers, Poultry, Microwave
Yield: 12 Servings
12 lb Turkey
Salt and pepper to taste
6 tb Flour
Salt and pepper
Chicken broth
1. If turkey is frozen it may be defrosted in the Microwave Oven
(follow directions in your manual), or it may be defrosted by placing
it in the refrigerator overnight or until thawed. 2. Wash turkey and
pat it dry. Sprinkle inside cavity with salt and pepper, to taste. 3.
Tie legs together. Tie wings and legs to body. 4. Invert a
heat-resistant, non-metallic saucer or small casserole cover in a
shallow, 10-inch, heat-resistant, non- metallic baking dish. 5. Place
turkey breast-side-down on the saucer. 6. Heat, uncovercd, for half
of cooking time, 3 minutes per pound (36 minutes). 7. Turn the turkey
breast-side-up and continue cooking covered with a paper towel for
the remaining half of the cooking time. (3 minutes per pound or an
additional 36 minutes). 8. Insert a meat thermometer into fleshy
portion of turkey, not touching any bones. It should register 160ø F.
DO NOT PLACE THERMOMETER IN MICROWAVE OVEN while cooking. 9. If
temperature is not 160ø F return turkey to Microwave Oven for an
additional few minutes until correct temperature is reached. 10. Let
turkey stand covered with aluminum foil at room temperature 20 to 30
minutes to finish cooking. The internal temperature of the turkey
should be 170øF after standing. 11. While the turkey is standing at
room temperature, prepare the gravy. The turkey should be removed
from the roasting pan. 12. Pour the pan drippings into a bowl,
leaving the residue in the pan. 13. Allow the fat to rise to the top.
Skim off about 6 tablespoons of fat. Reserve pan drippings. (If there
is not enough fat, add butter or margarine to make 6 tablespoons
total. Discard any excess fat.) 14. Return fat to the baking dish.
15. Blend in flour and salt and pepper, to taste. 16. Heat,
uncovered, in Microwave Oven 4 minutes or until lightly browned. 17.
Measure the remaining pan drippings and add enough chicken broth to
make 3 cups. 18. Gradually stir liquid into flour mixture until
smooth, scraping the sides of the pan to loosen any particles that
stick to the pan. 19. Heat, uncovered, in Microwave Oven 14 minutes
or until thickened and smooth. Stir occasionally during last half of
cooking.

