Title: ROAST LOIN OF PORK WITH SOUTHWESTERN SAUCE
Categories: Pork
3 lb pork loin -- boned and tied
Yield: 6 Servings
1 lg garlic clove -- peeled and
halved
:
2    ancho chilies
6 TB chili powder
1 TB cayenne -- ground
1 TB oregano -- crumbled
1 TB thyme -- crumbled
1 TB cumin -- ground
1 TB garlic powder
1 TB coriander -- ground
1 TB celery salt
4    strips bacon
1/2 ts garlic -- minced
1 md red bell pepper -- finely
diced
:
1 md green bell pepper -- finely
diced
:
1    poblano peppers -- finely
diced
:
1    ancho chili -- finely diced
3    plum tomatoes -- diced
1 sm onion -- finely diced
1/2 c  dry red wine
3 c  good veal stock
(Demi-Glace)
:

1. Rub the pork with the cut garlic. Discard the garlic. Set the pork
on a rack in a roasting pan.

2. Remove the stems from two anchos and place the chilies in a
blender. Chop and grind them to a faily fine powder. Transfer this to
a small mixing bowl.

3. Stir in the chili powder, cayenne, oregano, thyme, cumin, garlic,
powder, coriander and celery salt. Stir until completely mixed.
Remove a half cup of the mixture and set asidefor sauce. Rub the
remainder all over the roast to coat completely.

4. Set the roast in the oven and cook for 30 minutes at 475F.
Transfer the meat from the oven onto a wire rack to cool for 30
minutes. It will still be raw in the center, but the cooking will be
finished later; this cooling period will guarantee even cooking and
very tender meat. Reduce the oven temperature to 375F.

5. While the roast is cooking, start the sauce. Cook the bacon in a
large skillet over low heat to render the fat. Remove the bacon from
the pan and reserve. Drain off all but about two tablespoons of the
fat. Add the minced garlic and saute for one minute. Add the red and
green peppers, poblano, ancho, tomatoes, and onions. Sprinkle the
reserved spice mixture over the vegetables and cook over medium heat,
stirring frequently until they are soft., about 15 minutes. Pour the
red wine over the veggies and cook until the mixture is reduced to
just a glaze. Pour in the veal stock and continue cooking over medium
heat until the liquid is reduced by about half, about 15 minutes.
Crumble the reserved bacon into the sauce. Keep it warm while
finishing the roast.

6. Return the pork roast to the oven at 375F. Cook 20 to 25 minutes,
until a meat thermometer inserted in the center reads 137 degrees.
Remove from the oven and transfer to a rack. Let cool slightly before
slicing into medallions.

7. Serve the roast on a pool of the veggie sauce, with corn pudding
on the side.

: Twenty-One Federal/modified by tpogue@idsonline.com
Recipe By

From: Mastercook Mac

