Title: ROASTED TOMATO GAZPACHO
Categories: Main dishes, Summer, Soups & ste, Vegetarian
Yield: 4 Servings
2 1/2 lb Tomatoes -- cored and
Quartered
1 lg Red bell pepper -- seeded
And quartered
1 lg Sweet onion -- cut into
Eighths
1    Carrot -- halved lengthwise
8    Garlic cloves -- peeled
2 tb Extra virgin olive oil
Salt and freshly ground
Black pepper
1    Basil sprig
1    Oregano sprig
1    Thyme sprig
2 c  Knorr's vegetable stock --
Fat skimmed
1/2 c  Diced cucumber
1/2 c  Diced yellow bell pepper
1/2 c  Thinly sliced scallion
Including green
1/2 c  Diced red or yellow tomato
BASIL PUREE
1/2 c  Basil leaves -- packed
1    Garlic clove
2 tb Extra virgin olive oil
pn Salt
TO MAKE BASIL PUREE: Combine the ingredients in a food processor and
process until smooth. YIELD: 1/4 CUP.

TO MAKE GAZPACHO: Preheat oven to 450#161#F.

Arrange the tomatoes, red bell peppers, onion, carrot and garlic in a
large roasting pan. Drizzle with the olive oil and sprinkle with salt
and pepper. Roast 30 minutes, stirring the vegetables and turning the
pan so the vegetables brown evenly. Place the sprigs of basil,
oregano and thyme on top of the vegetables and roast for 20 minutes
more, or until the vegetables are very tender. Remove from the oven
and cool slightly. Remove the carrot and set aside separately.

Place a food mill over a large bowl. Transfer the roasted vegetables
and all of the liquid in the pan to the food mill. Add about 1/2 cup
of the broth to the pan and scrape up any brown bits. Add to the food
mill. Press the vegetables through the food mill, using the remaining
broth to keep thevegetables moist and to extract as much from the
vegetables as possible. Discard the solids in the food mill. There
should be about 5 cups of pureed vegetables and broth combined.

Cut the carrot into small dice. Add the carrot, cucumber, yellow
pepper, scallion and diced tomato to the puree. Taste and correct the
seasonings. Refrigerate until very cold.

Serve chilled in large shallow bowls. Garnish each with a swirl of
Basil Puree.

: Lighter, Quicker, Better/Sax & Simmons
Recipe By

Date: Thu, 18 Jul 1996 11:57:18
From: Bobm123052@aol.Com
~0400

