Title: ROAST FLANK STEAK WITH POTATOES AMD PORTOBELL
Categories: Miamiherald, Meat/beef
Yield: 4 Servings
4 md Baking potatoes
12 cl Garlic; smashed, peeled and
-roughly chopped
1 c  Olive oil
2 ts Kosher salt
Freshly ground black pepper
4    Portobello mushrooms, stem
-ends trimmed and caps wiped
-clean
2 lb Flank steak; trimmed of all
-surface fat
Place one oven rack on lowest level and one rack on the next level
above. Heat oven to 500 degrees F. Forty minutes before roasting the
steak and mushrooms, use a fork to prick the potatoes once or twice
each. Place them directly on the sides of the upper rack of the oven,
allowing enough room for the mushrooms, which will cook on the same
rack. Put the garlic in the blender or food processor with 4
tablespoons of the oil. Blend until smooth.  Scrape down the sides
with a rubber spatula. Add remaining oil and salt and pepper. Blend
until smooth. Put the mushrooms in a 12-by-8-by-1 1/2-inch roasting
pan. Using the spatula, scrape out half the garlic mixture into the
pan. Rub the puree into both sides of each mushrooms cap. Allow to
marinate for at least 30 minutes. Put steak in shallow container
large enough to hold it. Pour remaining garlic mixture over and rub
into both sides of steak. Let marinate on kitchen counter at least 30
minutes or until meat comes to room temperature. Before roasting the
steak and mushrooms, put a 14-by-12-by-2-inch roasting pan on the
lower oven rack and preheat for 10 minutes. Remove pan. Immediately,
put the steak with all of its marinade in the pan. Place on the lower
rack, the thickest part of the steak to the rear of the oven. Place
the mushrooms on the upper rack at the same time. For rare, roast the
steak on one side for 6 minutes(for medium, 8 minutes). Turn the
steak and ,ushrooms. Roast 6 minutes more. Remove steak, mushrooms
and potatoes from the oven. Let steak rest about 5 minutes,  Slice
thinly against the grain.

Nutritional info per serving: 734 cal; 53g pro, 40g carb, 40g fat

Source: Roasting: A Simple Art by Barbara Kafka Miami Herald, 1/4/96
format by Lisa Crawford

