Title: ROASTED LANGOUSTINES WITH BELL PEPPERS~
Categories:
Yield: 4 Servings
4    Red bell peppers
3 tb Extra virgin olive oil
10    Basil leaves
Coarse sea salt to taste
4 c  Organic arugula
1 ts Garlic puree
Cracked white pepper to
Taste
1 ga Water
1 c  French green beans
12 lg Fresh langoustines
2 ts 100 yearold balsamic vinegar
Roast the whole bell peppers over a mesquite grill until completely
charred and cooked. Remove from grill and place in a covered
container to allow to steam. When the peppers are cool, remove the
charred skins but do not rinse off the essential oils and juices.
Remove the seeds and white membranes and discard them. Tear the
peppers into four lobes and marinate with half of the olive oil, all
of the basil leaves, and coarse sea salt. Reserve at room
temperature. Heat one tablespoon of olive oil in a heavy sautJ pan.
When oil is hot, wilt the leaves of arugula and add the garlic puree,
salt, and pepper. Cool at room temperature and reserve. Blanch the
trimmed green beans in one gallon of boiling salted water for three
to four minutes. The beans must have texture but not be crispy or al
dente. Refresh in ice water and remove from ice as soon as beans are
cooled. Remove the heads from the langoustines and remove the shell
from the tail, leaving the end tail piece on. Always work on ice when
cleaning sea food, especially crustations. Put a toothpick through
the langoustine. In a heavy sautJ pan, heat one tablespoon of olive
oil. Sear the langoustines in hot oil until evenly golden brown. Set
aside in a warm place. The langoustines should cook for only one
minute total; thirty seconds on each side. Presentation: Place a
small mound of the wilted arugula in a deep, large bowl and place the
marinated pepper strips on top. Place three langoustines on the
peppers. Toss the green beans in extra virgin olive oil and place as
garnish. Drizzle with a few drops of the old vinegar and serve hot.
Yield: 4 servings

: CHEF DU JOUR SHOW #CJ9331
Recipe By

From: Minnie@juno.Com (Louise M Mccartndate: Wed, 23 Oct 1996
14:37:20 Pst

