Title: ROAST QUAIL WITH JUNIPER BERRIES III (QUAIL)
Categories: Game, Masterchefs, New york, Tfs
Yield: 6 Servings
1 x  Gorgonzola Polenta **
1 x  Cranberry Relish **
MMMMM---------------------------QUAIL--------------------------------
12 ea Quail, necks and feet
-- removed
6 sl Pancetta, thin, (Italian
-- dry-cured unsmoked bacon)
-- coarsely chopped OR
6 sl Bacon, coarsely chopped
12 ea Sage, leaves, fresh OR
1/2 ts Sage, dried
1/4 c  Oil, olive
36 ea Juniper, berries, toasted
-- in dry skillet for 5
-- minutes
Salt (to taste)
Pepper (to taste)
1/4 c  Gin
1/2 c  Wine, white, dry
2 c  Stock, Veal **
** See recipe for Veal Stock, Gorgonzola Polenta, and Cranberry
Relish.

Preheat your oven to 450 F. Holding quail, breast up, tuck wing
tips under.  Place a little of the pancetta, a sage leaf, and 2
juniper berries in the cavity of each bird.  Sprinkle the cavity and
outside of each bird with a little salt and pepper.  Push each leg
joint downward and fasten it to the carcass with a toothpick, pushing
1    toothpick through both legs.

Heat the olive oil in a large heavy skillet over very high heat.
Arrange birds in pan, breasts down.  Saute, shaking pan occasionally
until breasts are lightly golden, 2 to 3 minutes.  Place the skillet
in the oven and roast 5 to 6 minutes.  Use tongs to turn birds'
breasts up and continue to roast until golden brown, about 6 minutes.
Remove the skillet from the oven and transfer the quail to 6 warm
serving plates; keep warm while preparing sauce.

Discard any fat from the skillet and place the pan over
medium-high heat.  Deglaze the skillet, adding the gin and wine,
scraping up any browned bits in a pan.  Add your stock and boil
gently until reduced enough to coat a spoon lightly.  Stir in the
remaining juniper berries, adjust your seasonings, and pour this over
the birds. Serve immediately.

Source:  New York's Master Chefs, Bon Appetit Magazine
:  Written by Richard Sax, Photographs by Nancy McFarland
:  The Knapp Press, Los Angeles, 1985

Chef:  Seppi Renggli, The Four Seasons Restaurant, New York

Owners:  Tom Margittai, and Paul Kovi
Pastry:  Bruno Comin

