Title: ROLLED STUFFED CHICKEN WITH HOT PEPPER SAUCE
Categories: Cooking liv, Poultry
For the rolled stuffed
chicken:
Yield: 4 Servings  :
:
1/2 lb hot Italian sausage --
casings discarded
:
1 lg egg -- beaten lightly
2 lb spinach, washed well and
coarse stems discarded
:
2 TB olive oil
1    garlic clove  minced
1    whole chicken (about 1
pound)
completely boned -- but left
intact
:
:
:
1 ts fresh lemon juice
2 TB vegetable oil
For the Sauce:
:
1/4 c  chopped onion
2 TB unsalted butter
1 lg red bell pepper -- chopped
fine
:
1 lg green bell pepper -- chopped
fine
:
1/2 c  chicken stock
1/2 c  dry white wine
1 ts seeded and minced pickled
jalapeno
pepper, or to taste -- wear
rubber gloves
:
:
:
1 ts fresh lemon juice -- or to
taste
:

Make the rolled stuffed chicken:

In a skillet cook the sausage over moderate heat, stirring and
breaking up the lumps, until it is no longer pink and let it cool.
Transfer the sausage with a slotted spoon to a food processor, add
the egg, and pulse the mixture for 30 seconds, or until the sausage
is chopped fine but not pureed. In a large saucepan cook the spinach
in water clinging to the leaves, covered, over moderately high heat,
stirring occasionally, for 3 to 5 minutes, or until it is wilted.
Drain the spinach in a colander, refresh it under cold water, and
squeeze dry. Chop the spinach coarsely and sprinkle it with salt and
pepper. In a skillet heat the olive oil over moderate heat until it
is hot but not smoking and in it cook the garlic, stirring, for 1
minute. Add the spinach, cook the mixture 2 minutes, and let it cool.

Flatten the chicken breast between sheets of dampened wax paper until
it is about 1/4 inch thick, form it into a rectangular shape skinned
side down, and sprinkle it with lemon juice and salt and pepper to
taste. Spread the spinach evenly on top of the chicken, leaving a 1/2
inch border all around, spread the sausage mixture evenly on top of
it, and beginning with the long side roll the chicken jelly roll
fashion to enclose the stuffing, forming a log. Stretch the reserved
chicken skin to form a rectangle 2 inches wider than the log and roll
the skin around the chicken, covering as much of it as possible. Tie
the rolled chicken at 1 inch intervals with the kitchen string, pat
it dry, and season it with salt and pepper. In an oven proof skillet
heat the vegetable oil over moderately high heat until it is hot but
not smoking and in it brown the chicken. Bake the roll chicken, seam
side down, in a pre-heated 350 degree oven for 30 minutes and let it
stand, covered for 10 minutes.

Make the sauce while the chicken is baking: In a skillet cook the
onion in the butter over moderately low heat, stirring until it is
softened, add the bell peppers, and cook the mixture, covered
stirring occasionally, for 10 minutes. Add the stock and the wine and
bring the liquid to a boil, and simmer the mixture covered for 10
minutes. Add the jalapeno pepper, the lemon juice, and the salt and
pepper to taste and puree the mixture in a blender. The sauce may be
made 1 day in advance and kept covered and chilled.

Discard the strings from the rolled chicken and cut the chicken
crosswise into 12 or 16 slices. Pour about 1/3 cup of the sauce
heated, on each of 4 heated plates and arrange 3 or 4 chicken slices
on each plate.

Yield: 4 serving

: COOKING LIVE SHOW #CL8732
Recipe By

From: "Jon And Angele Freeman" <jfreemadate: Wed, 9 Oct 1996 11:37:01
~0500

