Title: ROMA'S WHITE CHOCOLATE BREAD PUDDING
Categories: Desserts, Chocolate, Formatted, Puddings
Yield: 12 Servings
MMMMM------------------------THE PUDDING-----------------------------
6 c  Heavy cream
2 c  Milk, whole
1 c  Sugar, granulated
10 oz Chocolate, white; broken
-into small pieces
4    Eggs
15    Egg yolks
1    Bread, French 24" loaf
MMMMM-------------------------THE SAUCE------------------------------
8 oz Chocolate, white; broken
-into pieces
1/2 c  Heavy cream
1 oz Chocolate, dark; for garnish
Preheat oven to 275F.
In a large saucepan, heat the whipping cream, milk and sugar over
medium heat until the mixture just begins to bubble around the edges
but is not boiling. Add the white chocolate pieces and stir until
melted. Remove from heat. Combine the whole eggs and the egg yolks in
a large bowl. Slowly pour the hot cream mixture into the eggs in a
steady stream, whipping the eggs as you pour. Slice the bread 1 inch
thick (Use stale bread, or slice the bread then dry in a 275^ oven
for about 10 minutes)
Place the bread in a pan measuring about 9 x 12 inches. Pour half
the egg mixture over the bread. Use your fingers to press the bread
into the mix so that it absorbs the liquid and becomes soggy. Pour in
the remaining mix. Cover the pan with foil and bake in a 350 degree
oven for 1 hour. Remove the foil and bake for an additional 30
minutes, or until the pudding is set and top is golden brown. Make
the sauce: Bring the cream to a boil in a small saucepan. Remove from
the heat and add the white chocolate, stirring until smooth and
completely melted. Spoon over the bread pudding.
To serve: You can either serve the bread pudding warm, spooned
right out of the pan and topped with the sauce and grated chocolate,
or prepare ahead of time for a more polished presentation. Chill the
bread pudding until completely set and firm, about 6 to 8 hours.
Loosen the sides from the pan with a knife and invert the pudding
onto a cutting surface. Cut into 6 squares, then cut the squares in
half to make 12 triangles. Place the triangles on a cookie sheet and
heat in a 275^ oven for 15 minutes. Serve with sauce and garnish with
chocolate shavings.

