Title: ROSEMARY-WHOLE WHEAT FOCACCIA WITH GARLIC
Categories: Breads, Cheese
Yield: 2 Servings
1/2 c  Plus 1 tablespoon cold water
1 3/4 ts Salt
1 tb Honey
2 tb Olive oil
2 ts Dried rosemary leaves
1 c  Whole-wheat flour
1/2 c  Bread flour
Oil and cornmeal for baking
-pans
3 tb Butter or margarine
2    Lg. red onion, thinly
-sliced, slices separated
-into rings
1 1/2 c  Finely shredded
-Parmigiano-Reggiano cheese
-or other
Parmesan-like hard cheese
1/4 c  Finely julienned sun-dried
-tomatoes
Salt
Crushed hot red pepper
More than just flat bread, this focaccia is a great base for open-
faced sandwiches with sliced left over meat or poultry or cheese,
spread with robust mustard. Or try juicy tomatoes, thinly sliced with
fresh basil strewn over.

Basic Sponge

In processor fitted with metal blade, mix Basic Sponge with water,
salt, honey, olive oil and rosemary until smooth. Combine flours and
add to sponge mixture, 1/4 cup at a time, pulsing several times to
incorporate each addition. Then process dough until supple, elastic
and stick- ing slightly to work bowl, about 1 minute, adding more
water or flour by teaspoon, if dough is either too dry or too wet.
Dough should be very sticky, almost wet.

Transfer dough to large plastic bag, squeeze out all air and seal
tightly on top to allow room for dough to expand. Set bag in bowl and
let dough rise in warm spot until doubled, about 1 hour. Can be
refrigerated overnight once punched down.

Oil round pizza pans, preferably black steel. Sprinkle with corn meal.
Divide dough in half. Gently stretch each into about 12-inch diameter
round. Transfer to pans. Dimple dough with fingers.

Heat butter with garlic until melted. Brush over surface of each
focaccia, dividing evenly. Scatter sun-dried tomatoes on top. Season
to taste with salt and crushed hot red pepper. If baking 1 focaccia
at a time, refrigerate unbaked loaf until after first is baked.

Bake on lower rack of 425-degree oven until lightly browned on edge,
about 18 to 20 minutes. Cut into wedges. Serve warm. Makes 2
(13-inch- diameter) focaccia loaves, or 4 servings.

Each serving contains about:

730 calories; 2,050 mg sodium; 47 mg cholesterol; 29 grams fat; 94
grams carbohydrates; 28 grams protein; 1.7 grams fiber; 36% calories
from fat.

Recipe from: The Los Angeles Times Newspaper, Thursday March 05, 1992
Food Section By: Abby Mandel.

