Title: ROSEMARY OLIVE OIL BREAD
Categories: Breads
Yield: 1 Servings
1 ts Active dry yeast
1 1/2 c  Water -- 105-115 degrees
2 c  Basic bread sponge
3 tb Extra virgin olive oil
Extra virgin olive oil --
For brushing
3 c  Unbleached all-purpose
Flour
1/3 c  Unbleached all-purpose flour
For kneading
1/2 c  Whole wheat flour --
Preferably organic
1/4 c  Fresh rosemary -- finely
Chopped
2 tb Kosher salt
Cornmeal -- for sprinkling
Measure the rosemary *after* chopping.

Preheat the oven to 400 degrees.  Place the walnuts on a baking sheet,
roasting until fragrant and golden brown, about eight minutes. Cool.

In a bowl, dissolve  the yeast in the water.  Allow to proof for three
minutes.

Stir the sponge and 3 tablespoons oil into the water, breaking the
sponge up using your hands or a spoon. Stir in the rosemary and salt.

Add 3 cups of the unbleached flour, the whole wheat flour, and salt
and mix, scraping and folding until the dough gathers into a single
mass which will be wet and sticky with strands hanging from your
fingers.

Turn the dough out onto a lightly floured surface and allow to rest
for 3 minutes.  knead in as much of the 1/3 cup of flour as is
required to make a smooth, elastic and only slightly sticky dough
(use as little flour as is possible).  Shape into a ball.

Place the dough in a lightly oiled bowl, brush the top of the dough
with additional oil, and cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate
overnight.

Remove from the refrigerator and allow to warm-up in a draft-free
spot for two hours.

Sprinkle a baking sheet without sides generously with cornmeal. On a
floured work surface, halve the dough and then shape one piece into a
ball, pressing to remove any large bubbles at the edges. Place the
dough-ball on the baking sheet, being sure to put the seam on the
bottom. Repeat with the second ball, leaving 3 to 4 inches between
the two. Cover with plastic and allow to rise until doubled, in a
draft-free location. This should take 2-2 1/2 hours. These loaves
will be flat and wide.

Preheat the oven for at least thirty minutes along with a baking
stone or tiles on the middle rack to 425. Place a baking pan with
decent sides on the bottom shelf. Boil two cups of water. Brush the
loaves again with oil and then, using a razor blade, make a
tic-tac-toe pattern in the top of each of the loaves - do not tear
the dough, you want to cut it. Pour the boiling water into the baking
pan.  Slide the loaves off the sheet and onto the stone.

Bake for 20 minutes, reduce the temperature to 350 and then bake for
another 30-35 minutes until the loaves are a light golden brown and
hollow sounding when tapped on the bottom. When done, brush with
additional olive oil and transfer to cool on a rack.

: Amy Scherber, Food&Wine 2/93
Recipe By

From: 	owner-Mm-Recipes@idiscover.Net O

