Title: ROULADEN (ROLMUPS)
Categories: Beef and po, Sent to lis
Yield: 6 Servings
3 lb Top Round Steak, 1/2" Thick
6 ts German Style Prepared
-Mustard
1/4 c  Onion, Finely Chopped
6 sl Bacon
3    Dill Pickles, Rinsed In Cold
-Water
3 tb Vegetable Oil
2 c  Water
1 c  Celery, Coarsely Chopped
1/4 c  Leeks,White Only, Thinly
-Sliced
1 tb Parsnip, Scraped, Finely
-Chopped
3    Sprigs Parsley
1 ts Salt
1 tb Butter
2 tb Flour
Pound steak to 1/4" thick. Cut into 6 rectangular pieces about 4
inches wide and 8 inches long. Spread each with a teaspoon of
mustard, sprinkle i with 2 teaspoons onion, and place a strip of
bacon down the center. Cut pickles in half lengthwise. Place one half
of a pickle across the short end of the rectangle. Roll meat up
jellyroll style around the pickle to form a cylinder. Tie rolls at
each end with kitchen cord.

On medium high setting, heat the vegetable oil in a heavy 10 to 12
inch skillet. Add the beef rolls and brown them on all sides,
regulating the heat so they color quickly and evenly without burning.
Transfer the rolls to a plate, pour the water into the skillet and
bring it to a boil, meanwhile scraping in any brown particles
clinging to the bottom and sides of the pan. Add the celery, leeks,
parsnips, parsley, and salt. Return the beef rolls to the skillet.
Cover, reduce heat to low, and simmer for 1 hour, or until the meat
shows no resistance when pierced with a fork. Turn the rolls once or
twice during the cooking period. Transfer the rolls to a heated
platter, cover with foil to keep them warm. while you make the sauce.

Strain the cooking liquid left in the skillet through a fine sieve,
pressing down hard on the vegetables before discarding them. Measure
the liquid, return it to the skillet, and boil it briskly until it is
reduced to 2 cups. Remove from heat. Melt the butter in a small
saucepan over moderate heat, and when the foam subsides sprinkle in
the flour. Lower the heat and cook, stirring constantly, until the
flour turns a golden brown. Be careful not to let it burn. Gradually
add the reduced cooking liquid, beating vigorously with a whisk until
the sauce is smooth and thick. Taste for seasoning and return the
sauce and the rouladen to the skillet. Simmer over low heat only long
enough to heat the rolld through. Serve the rools on a heated platter
and pour the sauce over them. Rouladen are often served with red
cabbage and dumplings or boiled potatoes. NOTES : I sometimes make it
as written, but often omit the parsnips, celery and leek. I also have
a heavier hand with the onion. This recipe makes killer gravy for
mashed potatoes.

Posted to MC-Recipe Digest V1 #1

From: Dianne Larson Ward <dianne@paccom.com>

Date: Wed, 04 Dec 1996 02:47:01 +0000

