Title: ROULADE OF TURKEY WITH FOIE GRAS & SAUTERNE S
Categories: Poultry
Yield: 4 Servings
1    Turkey breast
1    Head savoy cabbage
1 lb Fresh foie gras (can
-substitute same amount
-of chopped chicken liver)
Fresh cracked white pepper
Kosher salt
1 c  Sauterne wine
1 c  Low-salt chicken broth
1/3 c  Sun-dried cherries
1 lg Sweet potato
2 tb Vegetable oil
Full Title : Roulade of Turkey with Foie Gras and Sauterne Sauce with
Crispy Sweet Potatoes

From Peter Kelly of Piermont, N.Y.

Turkey roulade: Remove skin from turkey breast with sharp knife.
Slice in 4 slices. Between sheets of plastic wrap, lightly pound
turkey cutlets into paillardes (thin sheets). Season with Kosher salt
and pepper.

Divide foie gras (or chopped liver) in 4 parts and season with salt
and pepper. Place a piece of foie gras in center of each turkey
paillarde and roll turkey around foie gras.

Carefully remove cabbage leaves, one at a time, first removing core.
Boil cabbage leaves in a large pot just until wilted, about 3
minutes, and refresh under cold running water. Dry thoroughly.

For each roulade, lay out 2 or 3 cabbage leaves to form a square.
Place turkey roulade in center and wrap with cabbage, forming a tight
bundle. Refrigerate. Sautene sauce: Over high heat, reduce 1 cup of
sauterne and 1 cup of chicken broth until sauce coats back of spoon
(about 12 minutes). Sprinkle in 1/3 cup sun-dried cherries.

Crispy sweet potatoes: Peel potato and poach in boiling water until
just tender, 12-15 minutes. Drain and slice very thin and then cut
into julienne strips. In large saute pan, heat vegetable oil to hot,
and fry potato strips for 1 minute, or until crisp. Pat dry with
paper towels and toss with salt and pepper. To serve: Place roulades
in center of bamboo steamer and steam exactly 15 minutes. Turkey will
be cooked through and foie gras will be pink in center. Reheat
sauterne sauce and spoon, with cherries, on 4 warmed plates. Place
roulade in center of each plate and arrange crispy sweet potatoes
around.

