Title: RUM-GLAZED SWEET POTATO PUDDING
Categories: Historic, Desserts
Yield: 6 Servings
1/3 c  Sweet or dry sherry or
-Madeira
2/3 c  Raisins
2 lb Sweet potatoes, baked,
-Boiled or steamed until
-tender
1/2 c  Unsalted butter, melted
4 lg Eggs
2 c  Milk
1 c  Packed brown sugar
1/2 ts Mace
Pinch of salt
Grated zest of 1 orange
2 tb Lemon juice
1/4 c  +1 tablespoon dark rum
Pour the sherry or Madeira over the raisins in a small bowl; let
stand for 30 minutes or longer.

Preheat the oven to 375F., with a rack in the center. Butter an 11"
oval gratin dish or other shallow baking dish; set aside.

Halve the cooked sweet potatoes; scoop out the flesh and place it in a
large bowl.  Add 1/4c +1 Tbsp of the melted butter. Add the eggs, one
at a time, and beat with an electric mixer into the sweet
potato-butter mixture. Add the milk, 1/3 cup of the brown sugar, the
mace, salt and orange zest and beat until blended. Beat in the
raisins and their soaking liquid. Scoop the mixture into the baking
dish.

Warm the remaining 3 tablespoons melted butter in a small skillet.
Stir in the remaining 2/3 cup brown sugar and the lemon juice; cook
over medium-high heat, stirring occasionally, until bubbly, 3 to 5
minutes. Stir in the rum and return the mixture to a boil. Drizzle
the rum glaze randomly over the surface of the sweet potato mixture.

Bake until the pudding is set and the glaze is bubbly, and about 45
minutes.  Serves 6-8.

18th Century Recipe Note:
This is a simple baked pudding with a base of mashed sweet potatoes.
It has a wonderfully rich flavor. In colonial America, sweet potatoes
were far more common than white ones. (Some recipes call for yams,
with which sweet potatoes have become permanent confused. Virtually
all of what we buy today, regardless of how they are labeled, are
sweet potatoes. The confusion began when African-born slaves gave
their native name -- yam -- to sweet potatoes.)

Essentually a pleasant variation on the Thanksgiving classic that is
often topped with arc-welded marshmallows, this pudding is not
cloyingly sweet and allows the sweet potatoes own nice flavor to come
through. Serve it warm, topped with whipped cream flavored with
vanilla and dark rum.
Courtesy of Rick Rutan
Springfield, Ohio

MM Format by John Hartman Indianapolis, IN

