Title: TIERED BISCOTTI TREE
Categories: Desserts
Yield: 1 Tree
1 1/2 c  Slivered almonds
3/4 c  Butter/margarine, at room
Temperature
1 c  Sugar
1 tb Grated orange peel
4 lg Eggs
1 ts Vanilla
4 1/2 c  All-purpose flour
4 1/2 ts Baking powder
1/2 ts Salt
1/2 ts Ground cinnamon
1/4 ts Ground cloves
1/4 ts Ground coriander
1/4 ts Ground cinnamon
MMMMM----------------------MARMALADE ICING---------------------------
3/4 c  Orange marmalade
1 lb Sugar, powdered
1 tb Grand Marnier or orange
Juice
Constructed from baked biscotti dough, the cookie tree is an edible
centerpiece. Place almonds in a 8 to 9 inch pan. Bake in a 350~ oven,
shaking often, until golden, about 15 minutes; cool. In a large bowl,
beat butter, sugar and orange peel until fluffy. Add eggs, 1 at a
time, beating well after each addition.  Stir in vanilla. Combine
4-1/2 cups flour, baking powder, salt, cinnamon, cloves, coriander,
nutmeg and nuts; add to butter mixture and stir to blend thoroughly.
Divide dough into 3 equal pieces.  On a well-floured board, pat each
piece into an evenly thick triangle that measures 9 inches across
base, 2 inches across top and 12 inches on each side.  Make edges
neat by pressing with a ruler. Carefully transfer each triangle with
wide spatulas to an oiled 12x15 inch baking sheet.  Bake in a 350~
oven for 15 minutes; triangles can wait for oven space. Remove from
oven; cut crosswise (NOT diagonally) into slices exactly 5/8 inch
wide, using a long knife. Tip slices onto a cut side. Bake until
golden brown, about 20 minutes; turn cookies over once while baking.
Cool on reacks.  If made ahead, package airtight up until next day or
freeze. To build the tree, pipe (using a 1/4 inch tip) or spread a
little frosting on 1 side of each of the longest cookies. Lay
icing-side down on a flat platter, tips touching, to form a triangle.
Pip or spread icing down center of each cookie on plate. Stack the 3
next-longest cookies on the first, inverting position of the triangle
(looking down from the top, it will look like a Star of David). Build
tree, using the next-smallest cookie trio for each level and
cementing with icing. If you like, pipe icing to drip over the edge
of the cookies.  Decorate top with holly. Let guests lift off cookies
to eat. If made ahead or to protect from dust, seal in plastic wrap;
cookies stay fresh up to 4 days, depending on moisture in air.  Kept
longer, they hold their shape but get stale. Icing: Smoothly mix
together 3/4 cp orange marmalade, 1 box (1 lb) or 4 cups sifted
powder and 1 Tablespoon orange-flavor liqueur or orange juice. If
icing thickens as you work, stir in a little more orange juice.

