Title: TIGER SHRIMP
Categories: Info, Kooknet
Yield: 1 Info  Most black tiger shrimp available in this country are raw, shell-on
tails (the heads are often left on in Asian countries, but removed
before arriving on our shores). The shrimp are frozen in blocks
shortly after harvest.

The black color of the shells initially put off many consumers, but
price, availability and quality soon won them over. Regardless of
their color, the shrimp still cook to a nice pink.

Occasionally you may find shrimp with paper-thin shells. These are
simply shrimp that molted shortly before harvest; they are of the
same quality as others with more sturdy shells. All shrimp are in a
continuous cycle of molting as they grow, exchanging their snug,
smaller shells for new thin shells that harden until the next molt.
Black tiger shrimp grow especially quickly because t hey live in warm
tropical waters, so they molt quite often.

The shrimp are often sold with classifications of "medium" or "large",
while their industry sizing is based on a per-pound value. A shrimp
labeled 21/25 will number between 21 and 25 shrimp to a pound. The
smaller the number, the larger the shrimp. Most black tiger shrimp
found in U.S. markets are 16/20 or 21/35, while smaller shrimp are
sometimes available.

Black tiger shrimp are the most widely distributed and marketed
shrimp in the world. Harvests occur along coastlines in an eastward
arc from the southern tip of Africa almost to the Sea of Japan.
Almost 80 percent of the black tiger shrimp on the market are farmed,
with the remainder coming from various Asian countries. They are easy
to farm because they are quite adaptable and thrive on a wide range
of environments.

Black tiger shrimp are widely available year-round, although the
supply of farmed shrimp peaks in February and September and prices
should be somewhat lower then. Generally, the larger the shrimp, the
higher the price.

Black tiger shrimp have a notably firm-textured meat. This makes them
especially forgiving and easy to work with. You can cook them whole,
in the shell, or remove shells before cooking.

Black tiger shrimp, especially those raised in low-salinity water,
tend to be milder than ocean caught shrimp.

All cooking methods are suitable for shrimp. They should be cooked
just until they are opaque through the center. Cooking time will
depend on the cooking method and the size of the shrimp. Overcooked
shrimp are tough and nearly flavorless; check them after 2 to 3
minutes to gauge how much time they will need.

There is a surprising amount of  flavor left in the shells and it can
be captured in a simple shrimp stock. After peeling your shrimp, toss
the shells in a pan with just enough water to cover. Add fresh herb
sprigs, sliced onion, bay leaf, sliced carrot, sliced celery or other
flavorings if you like. Bring the water to a boil and simmer for
about 10 minutes. Drain the stock and use it in soups, chowders and
sauces, or freeze to save. You can also freeze the shells, and simmer
then at a later date.

Shrimp are a lean, low-fat selection, although (for seafood) they are
relatively high in cholesterol. A 3« ounce serving has 91 calories, 2
gm of total fat, 150 mg cholesterol, 18 gm of protein, 148 mg of
sodium and .5 gm omega-3 fatty acids.

Simply Seafood Fall 1994 Posted by Michael Prothro KOOK-NET
:þ Mike's Resort BBS, Fayetteville,AR,(501)521-8920þ

