Title: TIPS FOR SUCCESSFUL GRILLING
Categories: Information, Grill/bbq, Meats
Yield: 1 Text
- Grilling Tips -
Basic Grilling Tips:

Grilling time can vary with the cut of beef, grid position,
temperature of coals, weather and desired doneness.

Our recipes start with beef taken directly from the refrigerator. It
is not a safe food practice to bring meat to room temperature before
cooking

Use medium to medium-low coals to ensure even cooking.

Trim excess fat from meats to avoid flare-ups while grilling.

Direct grilling can be done with the grill covered or open; foods
cooked in a covered grill usually cook faster.

Use long-handled tongs for turning steaks or roasts; spatulas for
turning burgers. Don not use a fork, which pierces the beef, allowing
flavorful juices to escape.

Determine the doneness of steaks by making a small slit near the bone
and checking the color; for boneless cuts make a slit near the
center. For thicker steaks, use a quick-recovery meat thermometer to
accruately gauge the doneness.

Grilling with Mesquite & Hickory for Great Flavor:

Mesquite and Hickory are great for grilling. They're easy to light and
you're grilling in 20 minutes. Wood can be used with any type grill.
You'll enjoy the outdoor Texas flavor it gives you meals! Mesquite
wood provides a sweet, delicate taste that accents beef. Hickory wood
imparts a smoky, bacon-like flavor often associated with
Southern-style cooking.

Direct Grilling Method:

Foods are cooked directly over coals. This is a fast method for
cooking steaks and burgers.  Mesquite wood burns hot, so cook around
perimeter of coals

Indirect Grilling Method:

Slow cook thicker steaks and roasts in a covered grill. Bank coals
around a foil pan. Place beef over pan so food is not over coals.
Keep grill temperature at 300 degrees to roast. Add wood to maintain
heat.

Flavoring with Wood Chips:

Wrap a handful of wood chips in a foil pouch. Pierce the foil to
release smoke. Put pouch over hot charcoal or gas briquettes. The
chips will smolder and not flame.

Cooking with Wood Chunks:

Stack wood over 2 sheets of crumpled newspaper or starter stick. Open
vents. Light paper; let wood burn 15-20 minutes. Extinguish flame by
closing lid and vents for 30 seconds. Adjust vents for desired heat
level. Begin grilling. Note; Hickory is a dense wood and may require
more paper or lighter fluid to start fire. Or, use convenient
Light-the-bag chunks. The wood is pre-measured for one cookout. Place
entire bag in grill and light corners.

To test temperature of coals:

Hold your palm over grill at cooking height. If the heat forces you
to pull away in 3 seconds, coals are hot; if 4 seconds, coals are
medium and it 5 seconds, coals are low.

To lower temperature of coals;

Raise grid or spread out the coals. If cooker is covered, close vents
halfway

To raise temperature of coals;

Lower grid or push together coals. Add more chunks to outer edge of
hot coals. If cooker is covered, open vents fully.

Checking Beef's Doneness:

Use a quick-read meat thermometer. Or, you can also use the touch
method. If the meat is rare, it will feel soft and yielding; if
medium it will give slightly; and if well-done it will be firm

* COOKFDN brings you this information with permission from: * Texas
Beef Council -- http://www.txbeef.org

