Title: TOASTED COCONUT CAKE W/LIME FILLING
Categories: Cake
1 c  coconut -- flaked
Yield: 12 Servings
2 1/4 c  cake flour -- not self
rising
:
3 ts baking powder
1/4 ts salt
1/2 c  shortening -- room
temperature
:
1 1/4 c  sugar
3 lg egg -- separate out yolks
1 ts vanilla
1 c  milk
1/4 ts salt
1/4 ts cream of tartar
for the filling
:
1/4 c  sugar
2 TB cornstarch
1/8 ts salt
1/4 c  lime juice -- fresh
2 TB lemon juice -- fresh
1 lg egg -- lightly beaten
2 TB butter -- unsalted,
softened
:
1/4 c  coconut -- flaked
for the icing
:
1 1/2 c  sugar
2 TB light corn syrup
3 lg egg white -- room
temperature
:
1/2 ts cream of tartar
3/4 ts vanilla
1 1/2 c  coconut -- flaked
lime slices for garnish
:

Make the cake: Line the bottoms of 2 greased 8 by 2 inch round cake
pans with rounds of wax paper and grease and flour the pans, shaking
out the excess flour. Spread the coconut in a jelly-roll pan, toast
it in a preheated 350F oven, stirring once or twice, for 7 minutes,
or until it is golden and let it cool. In a bowl whisk together the
flour, the bakingpowder, the salt. In a large bowl with an electric
mixer cream the shortening, beat in 3/4 cup of the sugar, and beat
the mixture until it is light and fluffy. Beat in the yolks,one at a
time, and the vanilla and add the flour mixture alternately with the
milk, beginning and ending with the flour and beating until the
batter is smooth. In another largebowl with the electric mixer beat
the whites with the salt until they are foamy, add the cream of
tartar, and beat the whites until they hold soft peaks. Beat in the
remaining 1/2 cup sugar, a little at a time, and beat the meringue
until it holds stiff glossy peaks. Stir! the toasted coconut and one
fourth of the meringue into the batter to lighten it and fold in the
remaining meringue gently but thoroughly. Divide the batter between
the preparedpans and bake the layers in the middle of the preheated
350F oven for 30 to 35 minutes, or until tester comes out clean. Let
the layers cool in the pans on racks for 10 minutes,invert them onto
the racks, and let them cool completely.

Make the filling: In a small heavy saucepan whisk together the sugar,
cornstarch, salt, lime juice, lemon juice, and the egg until the
mixture is combined and bring the mixture to a rolling boil over
moderately high heat, whisking constantly. (The mixture will thicken
as it cooks.) Whisk in the butter and let the filling cool.

Split each cake layer in half horizontally with a long serrated knife
and brush off any  loose crumbs. On a cake plate arrange one of the
cake layers, cut side up, and spread it with one third of the lime
filling, leaving a 1/2 inch border. Sprinkle the filling with 1/4 cup
of the coconut and top the coconut with another cake layer, cut side
down. Continueto layer and fill the cake in the same manner with the
remaining filling and coconut.

Make the icing:  In a saucepan combine the sugar, corn syrup, 1/3 cup
water, bring the mixture to a boil, covered, over moderate heat,
stirring occasionally to dissolve the sugar,and boil the syrup,
uncovered until it registers 240F on a candy thermometer. While the
syrup is boiling, in a heatproof bowl with an electric mixer beat the
whites with a pinch of salt and the cream of tartar until they are
frothy. As soon as the syrup reaches 240F. add it to the whites in a
thin stream, continuing to beat the whites while the syrup is being
added. Beat in the vanilla and beat the icing until the bowl is not
longer hot. (If the icing is too stiff, beat in 1 to 2 tablespoons
hot water, or enough to form a fluffy, spreadable icing.) Spread the
icing over the side and top of the cake and cover the cake with the
coconut. Garnish the cake with the lime slices.

: Gourmet/April 1989 tpogue@idsonline.com
Recipe By

From: Mastercook Mac

