Title: TOFFEE CRUNCH ROLLS
Categories: Dorcas, Breads, Breakfast
Yield: 15 Servings
1 pk Dry yeast
1/4 c  Warm water
1/2 c  Buttermilk plus
2 tb Buttermilk
1    Egg
3 c  Flour
1/4 c  Butter, softened
1/4 c  Sugar
1 ts Baking powder
1 ts Salt
2 tb Butter, softened
1/4 c  White sugar
2 ts Cinnamon
1/2 c  Butter
1/2 c  Brown sugar
-not firmly packed
3 tb Corn syrup
1/4 c  Chopped pecans
1/4 c  Blanched almonds, crumbled
1. To pre pare yeast dough: In a large mixing bowl, sprinkle the dry
yeast over the warm water.  Add a pinch of sugar, if desired, to
start the yeast working.  After yeast softens a bit, stir to help
dissolve. After a few more minutes, foam should begin to form.

2.Meanwhile, remove egg from the refrigerator and place in a cup of
hot water.  Let stand while yeast dissolves. measure out flour and
set aside in a smaller bowl. Measure buttermilk and warm in microwave
in glass cup. Stir the foamy yeast mixture with a wooden spoon and
then stir in the warmed buttermilk and egg. Beat lightly to blend.
Stir in 1 1/4 cups of the flour, the 1/4 cup sugar, the baking powder
and salt.

3. Beat at low speed of an electric mixer toblend, scrape bowl and
then beat at medium speed 2 minutes, scraping bowl oc- casionally.
Stir in enough remaining flour to make dough fairly easy to handle,
but still soft and slightly sticky.

4. Without letting the dough rise, immediately roll out to a
rectangle that measures 15x9 inches. Measure to be sure. Spread
surface of dough evenly with 2 tablespoons softened butter. Mix 1/4
cup sugar and 2 teaspoons cinnamon and sprinkle over the butter. Roll
up, starting from the wide side to form a spiral.
Pinch edge of dough to seal. Streth and pat the roll to make it of
even width. Slice into 15 even slices, using a knife, or tie off with
thread.

6. For topping, melt the stick of butter in a 13x9 inch glass baking
pan. Then stir in the brown sugar and corn syrup. Tilt the pan to
evenly distribute.
Sprinkle evenly with the crushed nuts. Place rolls, cut sides down,
slightly apart on top of the nuts in rows of three down and 5 across.
Cover pan with plastic wrap and set in a warm place until the rolls
have doubled in size, about 35 minutes.

7. Meanwhile, preheat oven to 350~.  Bake rolls 25 to 30 minutes or
until light golden brown.  Immediately invert pan on a foil- covered
oblong tray and scrape any remaining nut mixture out of pan over
rolls. Cover rolls to protect them from drying while they cool.

