Title: TOMATO BREAD
Categories: Sun-dried, Breads
Yield: 1 Servings
-Maria Arico-CWJS00A
1 cl Garlic
2 tb Onion; finely chopped
1 tb Oil from tomatoes
2 1/2 ts Active dry yeast or
1 sm Cake Fresh Yeast
1/4 c  Warm Water
1 c  Water; room temperature
1/2 c  Oil-packed sun-dried tomato;
-coarsely
3 3/4 c  Unbleached A-P flour
2 ts Salt
1    Egg white
Lightly saute the garlic and onion in the oil; let cool to room
temperature. Stir the yeast into the warm water in a large bowl; let
stand until creamy, abaoaut 10 minutes. Stir in the other cup of
water and the garlic and onion with the oil, then stir in the
tomatoes. Mix the flour and salt and stir 1 cup at a time into the
yeast mixture. Knead on a lightly floured surface, sprinkling with 2
to 3 tablespoons additional flour as needed, until the dough is soft,
velvety and slightly moist, 8 to 10 minutes. IN PROCESSOR-Stir the
yeast in 1/4 c warm water in a small bowl; lete stand until creamy,
about 10 minutes. Place the flour and salt in a processor fitted with
the steel blade or dough blade and process briefly to sift. Place the
garlic and onion with the oil and the tomatoes on top of the flour.
With the machine running, pour the dissolved yeast and the 1 cup of
water through the feed tube as quickly as the flour can absorb it.
Process until the dough comes together. Process 30 seconds longer to
knead. The dough will be velvety, elastic and salmon colored. Finish
kneading briefly by hand on a floured surface, it you want. 1st
rise-Place the dough in a lightly oiled bowl, cover with plastic wrap
and let rise until doubled, about 1 hour. Shaping and Second
Rice-Punch the dough down on a lightly floured surface and knead
briefly. Shape the dough into a ball. Place on a lightly oiled baking
sheete or a peel sprinkled with flour; coveer with a towel and let
rise until doubled, about 45 to 55 minutes. Baking-Heat oven to 425.
If using a baking stone, turn the oven on 30 minutes before baking
and sprinkle the stone with cornmeal just before sliding the loaf
onto it. Make 3 parallet slashed on the top of the loaf with a razor.
Brush the top with the egg white. Bake 10 minutes, spraying 3 times
with water. Reduce the heat to 375~ and bake 25 to 30 minutes longer.
Cool completely on a rack. (wrv)

