Title: TOMATO & BASIL RISOTTO
Categories: Italian, Rice, Vegetarian
3    Plum tomatoes -- peeled,
seeded and c
Yield: 4 Servings
:
2 TB unsalted butter
salt -- to taste
pepper -- to taste
:
:
1/3 c  Parmesan cheese
1 TB fresh basil -- chopped
5 c  chicken stock
1/2 c  White Wine
2 TB unsalted butter
1 TB oil
1/3 c  onion -- finely minced
1 1/2 c  Arborio rice

To Prepare the fresh tomatoes, drop them into boilg salted water (the
salt helps to retain the red color) for 30 seconds, then immediately
run them under cold water. With a knife, peel the skins off and
scrape our the seeds with a speen , or squeeze the tomatoes to remove
the cores. (Personally I perfer to use a swivel peeler to peel to
tomatoes and squeeze the seeds out, they retain their flavor much
better this way!) Coarsely chop the tomatoes.

Heat the butter (first 2 tablespoons) in a skillet over moderate heat
and add the tomatoes. Cook for 2 or 3 minutes, until the tomatoes
become tender andturn a red-orange color. Add salt and pepper to
taske. Turn off the heat and set aside.

Bring the broth to a steady simmer in a saucepan on top of the stove.

Heat the butter and oil in a heavy 4-quart casserole over moderate
heat. (Instead of a casserole, we just use a sauce pan that will hold
the finished product.) Add the onion and saut=E9 for 1 or 2 minutes,
until it begins to soften, being careful not to brown it.

Add the rice to the onions; using a wooden speen, stir for 1 minute,
making sure all the grains are well coated. Add the wine and stir
until it is completely absorbed. Begin to add the simmering broth,
1/2 cup at a time, stirring frequently. Wait until each addition is
almost completely absorbed before adding the next 1/2 cup, reserving
about 1/4 cup to add at the end. Stir frequently to preven sticking.

After approximately 18 minutes, when the rice is tender but still
firm, add the reserved broth and the tomatoes. Turn off the heat and
immediately add the remaining condimenti-Parmesan and basil-and stir
vigorously to combine with the rice. Serve Iimmediately.

VARIATION: Add a pince a saffron to the rice when you begin to add the
broth. It will lend an intese orage hue to the risotto. Recipe By
: Risotto by Judith Barrett & Norma Wasserman

From: Dave Decoursey <dave@yourhomeco.Cdate: Thu, 17 Oct 1996 08:50:02
~0400

