Title: TORTILLA SOUP-TEXAS HOME COOKING
Categories: Soups, Stews
Yield: 6 Servings
8 c  Unsalted chicken stock
6    Roasted garlic cloves* mince
1/2 c  Red-ripe tomatoes, chopped,
Seeded or canned crushed
Tomatoes
1 md Onion, 1/2 chopped and
1/2 sliced into thin rings
1    Fresh jalapeno, sliced into
Thin rings
1    Chipotle chile (whole if
Dried, or minced if canned
1 ts Dried oregano, preferably
Mexican
2 c  Shredded cooked chicken or
Turkey
Juice of 1 lime
Salt to taste
4    Corn totillas, sliced, into
Thin strips, toasted or
Broiled until crisp.
Chopped cilantro,
Cubed avacado,
Mexican Asadero cheese
Crumbled or
Monterey Jack cheese grated
For garnish
In a large, heavy saucepan, bring the stock to a boil. Reduce the
heat, and simmer uncovered until the stock is reduced to
approximately 6 cups.

Add the garlic, the tomatoes, the chopped half of the onion, the
jalapeno, the chipotle, and the oregano to the stock. Continue to
simmer, uncovered over medium-low heat another 30 minutes. While the
soup cooks, place the remaining onions (sliced) on a greased baking
sheet, and broil them until they are softened and a little brown
around the edges. Add the broiled onions, the chicken, and the lime
juice to the soup, and continue simmering until the chicken is just
heated through. If you have used a dried chipotle, remove the chile,
and either mince it and return it to the pan or discard it, depending
on how spicy you want the meal.

To serve, place a small handful of totilla strips in each bowl, and
pour the soup over. Pass the garnishes separately.

*Roasted garlic: Place individual cloves with skins on, in a heavy
skillet over low heat, and turn them until the skins darken on all
sides and the cloves soften.

NOTES: Tortilla soup originated in Mexico as a way to use old
tortillas and leftover poultry, but it developed into one of the
classics of the national cuisine. If you want the full flavor of the
dish, don't skip the steps of roasting the garlic and broiling the
onions. These actions add a smoky mellowness to the soup which you
can enhance even more by using smoked poultry.

From Texas Home Cooking by Cheryl Alters Jamison, and Bill Jamison
ISBN 1-55832-058-X (cloth)----ISBN 1-55832-059-8 (paper)

Typed by Bobbie Beers 3/16/96 From: Valance@omnifest.Uwm.Edu (Marsha

