Title: TSOUREKI (EASTER BREAD)
Categories: Middle east, Greek, Breads
Yield: 1 6" rd loaf
2 pk Active dry yeast
1/2 ts Sugar
1/4 c  Sugar
1/4 c  Milk; lukewarm (110-115 deg)
2 1/2 c  All purpose flour
1 ts Salt
2    Egg
8 tb Butter, unsalted; cut into
;small bits
1 tb Butter; softened
1 ts Lemon peel; finely grated
1    Egg; hard boiled, in the
;shell, dyed red with food
;coloring
1    Egg yolk; lightly beaten
MMMMM----------------SILVER XPRESS MAIL SYSTEM 5---------------------
In a small, shallow bowl, sprinkle the yeast and the 1/2 teaspoon of
sugar over the lukewarm milk.  Let it stand for 2 or 3 minutes, then
stir to dissolve the yeast completely. Set the bowl in a warm, draft
free place (such as an unlighted oven) for 8 to 10 minutes, or until
the mixture doubles in volume.
Combine 1 1/2 cups of flour, the remaining 1/4 cup of sugar, and
the salt in a deep mixing bowl.  Make a well in the center, and add
the yeast and the 2 eggs. Gently stir the center ingredients together
with a large spoon, then gradually incorporate the flour and continue
beating until all the ingredients are well combined. beat in the 8
tablespoons of butter and lemon peel, add up to 1 cup more flour,
beating it n a few tablespoons at a time and using as much as
necessary to from a dough that can be gathered into a soft and still
somewhat sticky ball. (When the dough becomes difficult to stir
easily, work in the flour with your fingers.)
Place the dough on a lightly floured surface, and knead it by
pressing it down, pushing it forward several times with the heel of
your hand, and folding it back on itself. Repeat for about 10
minutes, or until the dough is smooth and elastic.  sprinkle the
dough with a little extra flour from time to time to prevent it from
sticking to the board.
Shape the dough into a ball and place it in a large, lightly
buttered bowl.  Dust the top with a little flour, drape with a
kitchen towel and set aside in a warm, draft free place for about 1
hour until the dough doubles in bulk.
With a pastry brush, coat a baking sheet with the tablespoon of
softened butter.  Punch the dough down with a single blow of your
fist, then transfer it to a lightly floured surface. To shape the
dough into a snail like loaf, roll it into a thick rope about 2
inches in diameter and 24 inches long.  Starting at one end, loop the
rope into a circle about 6 inches in diameter, and then into ever
smaller concentric circles. Carefully transfer the loaf to the baking
sheet and let it rise in a warm place for about 30 minutes.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees (F).  Press the dyed egg gently
into the center and brush the top of the loaf with the beaten egg
yolk. Bake in the middle of the oven for about 45 minutes, or until
golden brown and crusty. Cool completely on a cake rack before
serving.

29 of 116

Source: Time Life Series: Middle Eastern Cooking "circa '69"

MMed by: earl.cravens@salata.com Beach, CA * 310-543-0439 28.8k
(1:102/125)

