Title: TURBOT WITH FENNEL~ TOMATOES~ OLIVES~ AND
Categories:
Yield: 4 Servings
1    Extra virgin olive oil
8    Heads organic baby fennel
Salt and pepper to taste
2 c  Chicken stock
For the Confit Tomatoes:
4    Field-ripened organic
Tomatoes
Coarse sea salt to taste
1/4 c  Extra virgin olive oil
8    Thyme branches
4    Cloves garlic -- (4 to 6)
Pepper to taste
For the Preserved Lemon
Zests:8 lemons
1 c  Sugar
Salt to taste
1 c  Fresh lemon juice
For the Turbot Stock:
2 tb Olive oil
5 lb Turbot bones (gills removed
And iced)  1
c  Shallots
1 c  Fennel root
1/2 c  Garlic cloves
10    Basil stems
20    Dried fennel sticks
2 ga Chicken stock
For the Turbot Panises
(Chick Pea
Fritters):
2 c  Whole milk
4 tb Butter
Salt to taste
Pepper to taste
5 c  Chick pea flour
1 c  Flour
1 c  Peanut oil
For the Turbot:
1 c  Turbot stock with fennel
Sea salt to taste and pepper
To taste
8    Fillets fresh turbot (3 oz
Each)
2 tb Extra virgin olive oil
8    Heads organic baby fennel
1/2 c  Pitted late harvest olives
4    Field ripened organic confit
Tomatoes
2 tb Basil leaves
8    Preserved lemon zests
Preparation of the Braised Fennel: Heat a heavy sauce pan over high
heat. Add the olive oil and trimmed heads of baby fennel and sweat
for one minute. Season with salt and pepper and deglaze with chicken
stock to cover. Cover and bring to a boil. Simmer, covered, until
fennel is tender, approximately fifteen minutes. Chill in stock over
ice and set aside. Preparation of the Confit Tomatoes: Preheat oven
to 275 degrees. Boil the tomatoes in water for ten seconds then peel
and quarter them. Place in a pan with the salt, oil, thyme, and
garlic. Cook at a low temperature for three to four hours or until
tomatoes are half their original size. Reserve in the oil.
Preparation of the Preserved Lemon Zest: Zest the lemons with no pith
into strips 1/3-inch wide and two inches long. Place them in a pot of
cold water and bring to a rolling boil. Strain and repeat two more
times. Mix the sugar, salt, and lemon juice in a sauce pot and add
the blanched lemon zests. Simmer for twenty minutes at low heat until
zests are soft, tart, and sweet. Reserve in liquid for up to one week
refrigerated. Preparation of the Fritters: Boil the milk with the
butter and salt. Sift the flour and chick pea flour together, whisk
into the milk and cook until the mixture is very thick. Spread the
mixture on an oiled sheet pan. Place a sheet of buttered parchment on
top and flatten it with a sheet pan. Chill and cut into 3x1/2-inch
pieces. Dredge the chilled pieces in flour and fry in the oil until
crisp and golden brown. Preparation of the Turbot Stock:

Heat a large-bottomed heavy sauce pan over a high flame. Add olive
oil and cut up fish bones that have been patted dry. Sweat for two
minutes and add chopped vegetables, garlic, basil stems and fennel
sticks. Sweat five minutes and cover with the cold chicken stock.
Bring to a boil, skim, and simmer gently for forty-five minutes.
Strain through a cheese cloth and cool. Preparing the Sauce: Reduce
the turbot stock to 1/3 of a gallon and add 1/4 cup of the syrup from
the candied lemon. Season with sea salt and white pepper. Reserve
warm. Presenting the Dish: Season the fillets with salt and white
pepper and sear in a hot pan with olive oil. Warm the fennel, olives,
tomatoes, and basil with a few strips of the lemon, finish with
extra-virgin olive oil and serve under the fillets of turbot.

: Chef du Jour
Recipe By
For the Braised Fennel:

From: Minnie@juno.Com (Louise M Mccartndate: Wed, 23 Oct 1996
14:33:24 Pst

