Title: TURKEY WITH WILD RICE STUFFING (OPTIONALLY SM
Categories: Poultry
Yield: 12 Servings
8 oz Wild rice -- rinsed and
Drained
10 oz Pork sausage, mild or hot --
To taste
2 tb Butter
1 md Onion -- chopped
8 oz Mushrooms -- sliced
1/2 ts Rubbed sage
1 c  Parsley -- chopped
Salt and pepper -- to taste
12 lb Whole turkey
2 c  Apple wood chips or twigs
(optional) -- soaked 1 hour
Combine the rice with 3 cups of salted water, bring to a boil, reduce
the heat, cover and simmer until the rice is al dente -- 25 to 35
minutes. Wild rice varies considerably, so watch it carefully toward
the end. You do not want the rice fully cooked -- only a few of the
rice grains should have split. The rice will continue cooking in the
bird.

In a Dutch oven, crumble the suasage meat and brown it. Pour off any
accumulated fat.  Add the butter and melt it. Add the onion and
mushrooms. Cook, uncovered, until the onions are soft and the
mushrooms have given up their liquid.  The mixture should not have
any excess water. Remove from the heat.  Mix in the sage and parsley.
Taste and adjust the seasoning ~- it probably will not not need any
salt. Refrigerate until ready to use.

Prepare your Weber Kettle or other barbecue for indirect heat, or
preheat the oven to 325 degrees F. Clean the turkey, removing as much
loose interior fat as possible. Reserve the neck and giblets for
another use. Salt and pepper the cavity.  Stuff the bird fairly full
~- the stuffing will swell up just a little. Truss the bird and roast
until done -- 3 1/2 to 4 hours.  Remove the bird from the oven or
barbecue and let it rest 10 minutes before carving. Combine any
excess stuffing with the turkey neck in a baking dish and bake at 350
degrees for 60 minutes.

If cooked on the barbecue, smoking the bird adds a delicate smoke
flavor to the meat.  Scatter the soaked apple wood on the coals
several times during the first 1 1/2 hours of cooking. You will also
have to add some charcoal every half hour or so to keep the fire
going. Discard any drippings from the barbecue.

If roasted in the oven, the drippings can be used to make gravy.

: Jim Dykstra
Recipe By

Date: Sun, 12 Nov 1995 21:45:56
From: Cuponquen@aol.Com
~0500

