Title: TUSCAN SAUSAGE & BEAN SOUP WITH BOBOLI SIDE
Categories: Soups, Stews
Yield: 6 Servings
1 1/4 c  Dried great northern beans
Soaked overnight
4 c  Cold water
14 1/2 oz Canned tomatoes whole
Italian-style
14 1/2 oz Beef broth, canned -- low
Salt
2 c  Sliced zucchini or
Crookneck
3/4 lb Ground turkey Italian
Sausage -- sliced
1/2 c  Chopped onion
1/3 c  Dry red wine -- or water
1    Clove minced garlic
1/2 ts Dried Italian seasoning --
Crushed
5 oz Frozen chopped spinach
Grated Parmesan cheese
ITALIAN BREAD
1 lg Boboli (r) Italian bread
Shell
1 1/2 tb Virgin olive oil
Garlic powder -- to taste
Dried rosemary or basil --
Crushed
> The night before:  Rinse beans. Soak beans in 4-5 cups water in a
covered pot. Combine undrained tomatoes, beef broth, squash, sausage,
onion, wine (or water), garlic and herbs in the crockery container;
cover and chill overnight. > In the morning: Place spinach in a bowl,
covered, and let thaw in the refrigerator. Drain beans and rinse
thoroughly. Sort and discard debris. Add beans to tomato mixture.
Cook the beans, covered, on high-heat setting for 6 to 8 hours or
low-heat setting for 11 to 12 hours, or till beans are tender. > To
serve, squeeze excess liquid from spinach. Stir spinach into soup.
Heat while making boboli. Ladle soup into bowl. Sprinkle with
Parmesan.

ITALIAN BREAD ON THE SIDE -- 400F / 200C (Generously) brush the top
of a large Boboli with a mixture of olive oil, garlic power and dried
rosemary and/or basil. Bake about 10 minutes until golden brown. Cut
into wedges and serve warm.

PAT'S note:  Make conventional way (without slow cooker) on weekend.
Double recipe. Slice the sausage as thinly as possible and brown in a
little olive oil from sprayer. Add extrafennel seed and pinch of sage
when using Turkey sausage. Add 1/4 cup orzo (ooptional). The soup
takes about 3-1/3 hours. Use Pillsbury bread-sticks when Boboli
unavailable.

: BHG Feb, 1992, Make-Ahead.  (lf adjusted)
Recipe By

From: Grumpy49@nexusprime.Org On Tue, J

