Title: TYPES OF CHILE PEPPERS 1
Categories: Info, Kooknet
Yield: 1 Info  Poblano ~Appearance: thick-fleshed, shaped like a bell pepper with
collapsed sides tapering to a point; 3" to 5" long, 2" to 3" wide
near the stem; grows dark green and becomes dark red when fully
matured. ~Flavor: smoke-roasted and earthy with full, green flavor.
~Firepower: tropical; a comfortable "3" on the heat scale. ~Best
uses: roasted and peeled in casseroles and soups and sauces; stuffed
for chiles rellenos.

Anaheim (New Mexican) ~Appearance: long, smooth and bluntly pointed
with medium-thick flesh; 5" to 7" long, 1" to 2" wide; glossy green,
orange-red or bright scarlet. -Flavor: clear-cutting, sweet, earthy
flavor. ~Firepower: lukewarm; ranges between "4" and "2" on the heat
scale. ~Best Uses: in most Southwestern dishes including beverages,
sauces, salads, stew chilies rellenos, tamales, casseroles,
dressings, candies and desserts.

Note: dried crushed red New Mexican and Anaheim are commonly sold as
crushed red pepper flakes; Anaheims are milder than New Mexican and
are often sold whole or chopped in cans as generic "mild green
chilies".

Cayenne ~Appearance: long, thin-fleshed, sharply pointed pods, either
straight or curled at the tip; 6" to 10" long, 1" wide; ripens to
brick red. -Flavor: acidic and tart (also exudes smoky undertones
when dried). ~Firepower: incendiary; a dangerous "8" on the heat
scale. -Best Uses: fresh in salsa or salads; dried and crushed in
Creole dishes or whole in Asian stir-fry dishes.

Note: dried red cayenne is commonly ground into a spice known as
cayenne pepper or processed into hot pepper sauces such as Tabasco;
in world commerce, dried cayenne pods are known as Ginnie peppers.

Serrano ~Appearance: torpedo-shaped and thick-fleshed, but longer than
jalape¤os; 1" to 3" long, ¬" to «" wide' grows dark green and usually
ripens to red, but sometimes brown, orange or yellow. ~Flavor:
pleasantly acrid flavor with clean, biting heat. ~Firepower: blazing,
but less explosive than de arbol; a low "7" or high "6" on the heat
scale. ~Best Uses: fresh in salsa; roasted in sauces; pickled with
carrots and onions.

Pasilla (Chilaca) ~Appearance: long, cylindrical and furrowed; over 6"
long, 1" wide; grows dark green; ripens to dark brown. ~Flavor:
raisin-like aroma with sweet berry overtones. ~Firepower: tepid; an
unobtrusive "3" on the heat scale. ~Best Uses: dried or powdered in
sauces or moles such as guacamole.

Note: in California and northern Mexico, fresh and dried Poblanos are
often mistakenly named Pasillas.

Vegetarian Gourmet
Spring 1995

Posted by Michael Prothro KOOK-NET
:þ Mike's Resort BBS, Fayetteville,AR,(501)521-8920þ

