Title: TYROPITA TRIFTI THRAKIS (THRACIAN STYLE CHEES
Categories: Greek, Appetizers, Breads
Yield: 100 Servings
Karen Mintzias
1/2 c  Butter
1/2 c  Light olive oil
1/3 c  Milk plus;--->
2 tb Milk
1 1/2 ts Baking powder
1/2 ts Salt
-less, if cheese is salty
1 c  Grated Greek cheeses
2 c  All-purpose flour (or more)
Delicious!  And simple to make in a large batch for appetizers. As
made in Thrace, the soft-dough may be spread into a sheet and cut in
squares before baking, or each shaped individually into daintly
"bastounakia" (little canes or sticks).   The word "trifti"
identifies the texture - crisp and crumbly in the mouth. (They are
also called "kourou" [cut small].) If making the individual "little
canes," they should be half a (dainty) finger wide and a finger in
length. The secret of the crispness is in adding only enough flour to
make a soft dough.

To make about 100 1-inch squares:

The mixing of the dough may be begun with an electric mixer, but
should be finished by hand.  Beat the butter until fluffy, then lower
the speed and add the olive oil. Continue beating, and when fluffy
beat in the milk, baking powder, salt, if necessary, and cheese.
Begin adding flour, but after 1 cup stop beating with the mixer and
beat in the remaining flour by hand, adding only enough to make dough
soft enough to roll into strips. Knead a few minutes.  Spread or roll
on buttered sheet (jelly roll tray, cookie sheet, or any flat pan) to
a thickness of half-finger's width and cut into squares of desired
size (the smaller the better, since they are rich).  Bake in a
moderate oven (350 degrees) for 20 to 25 minutes, moving to the top
shelf for the last minutes to achieve a golden chestnut color. (If
making the "little canes," the baking time will be 10 to 12 minutes.)
Remove when done and cook on a rack.

Note: Stored in covered tins, these will keep for several weeks.

Source: The Food of Greece by Vilma Liacouras Chantiles. Avenel
Books, New York.

Typed for you by Karen Mintzias

