Title: VAGUELY-THAI SCALLOPS
Categories: Seafood, Thai
Yield: 4 Servings
1 lb Scallops, preferably
-the large (sea) kind,
-but small bay scallops
-should be ok
1/2 lb Snow peas
1/2 c  White wine
1 tb Lime juice
3 tb Nam Pla (Thai
-fish sauce)
3    Garlic cloves, chopped
2 tb Fresh ginger, chopped
4 tb Butter
Pepper, freshly ground
Start some rice cooking, so it will be done when the scallops are
done. If you're using large (sea) scallops, slice them into strips
about 1/4 inch thick. If you're using small (bay) scallops, don't
bother slicing them.

Rinse and drain the snow peas and remove the strings. Cut the pods
into 1-inch lengths.

Heat a small saucepan or skillet, then put in a little butter. Add the
ginger and saute for 30 seconds, then add the garlic and saute for
another 30 seconds.

Add the wine and fish sauce, and reduce the mixture by half, stirring
often. Keep this hot during the next few steps, but stir it so that it
doesn't burn.

Heat a skillet large enough to hold the scallops in one layer, and
melt the rest of the butter.  Over moderately high heat, add the
scallops and pepper to taste. Add the snow peas and stir-fry until
the peas have change color and the scallops have turned opaque, about
2 minutes. Don't overcook the scallops, just cook them until they've
lost their translucent look.

Add the sauce and lime juice to the skillet and stir everything for a
few seconds, until well-mixed.  Serve immediately.

NOTES:

*  Sauteed scallops with snow peas in fish sauce -- This is something
I invented with what I had around after I bought some scallops on
impulse. It's inspired partly by a recipe of Madeline Kamman's and
partly by Thai and Chinese recipes, although scallop recipes are rare
in my Asian cookbooks. It's not spicy and probably has very little to
do with real Thai cooking, but the taste of Nam Pla (Thai fish sauce)
is an interesting complement to the scallops. Serve it with rice.

*  Nam Pla is available in asian markets or some supermarkets.
Substitute soy sauce if you cannot find it. Do not add salt; the Nam
Pla is salty enough.

: Difficulty:  easy.
: Time:  10 minutes preparation, 10 minutes cooking.
: Precision:  Experiment with the proportions.

: Jeffrey Mogul
: DEC Western Research Lab, Palo Alto, California
: {ucbvax,decvax,ihnp4}!decwrl!mogul, mogul@decwrl.DEC.COM

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

