Title: VEAL LOIN CHOPS WITH DOUBLE TOMATO SAUCE
Categories: Veal, Desserts
Yield: 4 Servings
4    Veal loin chops - 1 to
-1-1/2" thick (8 oz.each)
1 tb Butter
1 tb Olive oil - extra-virgin
2    Shallots - finely chopped
-(not green onions)
2    Clove garlic - minced
1/4 lb Mushrooms - imported, such
-as oyster, chanterelles
Or shiitake - thinly sliced
Anchovy paste - 2 pencil
-eraser-sized pieces
1 cn Whole peeled tomatoes -
-Italian style (roma),
Drained, juice retained,
-coarsley chopped (28 oz.)
1 oz Sun-dried tomatoes -
-reconstituted in boiling
Water for 1 to 2 minutes,
-drained, thinly sliced
1 tb Basil - fresh, chopped OR
-1/2 t. dried, crumbled
1/4 c  Red wine - quality dry wine
-only
1/2 c  Reserved tomato juice from
-drained tomatoes,
Actually 1/2 to 3/4 cup
1 ds Tabasco
Freshly ground black pepper,
-coarsely ground
Salt to taste
12 oz Pasta - preferably rotini,
-cooked al dente
*DIRECTIONS*

Bring veal chops to room temperature.  Season with freshly ground
coarse black pepper on both sides, pressing pepper into chops. Melt
butter and olive oil in large, deep-sided frying pan. Brown chops on
medium-high heat until well browned, about 5 minutes per side. Remove
and cover with plastic wrap to keep warm.

Add chopped shallots to frying pan and saute, stirring occasionally,
about 3 minutes. Add garlic and continue sauteeing, stirring
constantly, another minute or so. Add sliced mushrooms and saute for
1 to 2 minutes, stirring occasionally. Reduce heat to medium and add
sun-dried tomatoes, chopped tomatoes, anchovy paste, Tabasco, basil,
red wine and 1/2 cup reserved tomato juice. Cook on medium heat
UNCOVERED approximately 15 minutes. If sauce gets too thick, thin
with remaining tomato juice, keeping in mind the fact that the pasta
will thin sauce slightly. Taste and correct seasoning, adding more
basil if desired along with salt and black pepper. Add veal chops to
sauce mixture, along with any meat juices that have accumulated on
plate, sinking chops as best as possible. Cook UNCOVERED about 10
minutes, and then flip chops. Cook another 5 minutes UNCOVERED and
again remove chops to plate and cover with plastic wrap to keep warm.
(Do not overcook the veal!)

Add cooked pasta to sauce and heat on medium-low about 5 minutes,
stirring occasionally, until pasta is warm. Taste and correct
seasoning.

Serve pasta on large platter with veal chops and sprinkle freshly
grated imported Romano on top of pasta.

Serves 4.

Serve with Caesar Salad or Spinach Salad and garlic bread. Something
lemony would be great for dessert, like Lemon Ice or Lemon Cheesecake.

Recipe by Michelle Bass, derived from Grilled Veal Chops with Double
Tomato Relish printed in Bon Appetit, June, 1991.

