Title: VEGETABLE SUSHI ROLL
Categories: Japanese, Appetizers
Yield: 6 Servings
5 c  White unconverted rice
1 1/2 c  Sushi rice vinegar
(or regular rice vinegar
-w/ts sugar added)
3    To 4 eggs beaten
1 pk Fresh spinach, washed
Small container pickled red
-ginger slivers
1 pk (about 6 large) dried
-Shiitake mushrooms
1 oz Pkg. Kampyo (dried gourd
-strips)
1/4 c  Soy sauce
Jerry's Long-Awaited Worth-Waiting-For Vegetable Sushi Roll
(MAKISUSHI) w/Egg

Nori (seaweed sheets) - 10 sheets Bamboo sushi mat ** Kampyo/Shiitake
~ ** Wash Kampyo; soak in enough water to cover 40 minutes, or until
soft. Drain.  Combine Shiitake and 2-1/2 cups water in medium-size
saucepan. Let stand 20 minutes.  Add softened Kampyo to Shiitake and
liquid in saucepan. Bring to boil; simmer, cover 5 minutes. Stir in
1/4 cup soy sauce; simmer 15 minutes longer, or until Kampyo is
lightly colored. Stir occasionally. Drain and cool; squeeze out
liquid from Shiitake (using paper towels). Divide Kampyo into 10
portions, each portion being about 8-9 inches long (the length of a
Nori sheet).  Remove and discard Shiitake stems; cut Shiitake into
1/4-inch thick slices.

Rice -  Wash rice until water runs clear; drain well. Combine rice
and 5 cups water in large sauce pan. Bring to boil; reduce heat and
simmer on lowest possible heat, cover 20-25 minutes, or until water
is absorbed. Don't Stir!!! (stick a fork into rice to bottom of pan
and if no water remains, it's ready). Remove from heat and let stand
covered for at least 10 minutes. Rice should be on the firm side, not
mushy. Remove 1/2 rice to large non-metal mixing bowl and let cool
some. Pour 1/2 cup sushi rice vinegar evenly over top of rice and
toss gently to combine. Add remaining rice (cooled some) and another
1/2 cup vinegar. Toss gently to mix. Cool.

Egg -  Pour 1/2 egg mixture evenly into lightly oiled hot skillet and
cook over medium-high heat until set. Turn out; cool and slice into
10 strips. Repeat with remaining egg mixture.

Spinach -  Bring washed spinach to boil in a little water, then lower
heat and cook for several minutes. Drain well and let cool (it is
important that as much water as possible is drained from the spinach
~ one way is to allow spinach to cool in a mesh strainer). Divide
into 10 portions of strips (you may not need all the spinach you have
cooked). ** Putting It All Together ** Unroll the bamboo sushi mat
away from you. Place 1 sheet Nori on mat, lining it up with the
bottom of mat. Moisten hands with a little of the remaining sushi
rice vinegar to prevent rice from sticking. Place enough rice on Nori
to cover 3/4 of the sheet and a little more than 1/2 inch thick.
Press down with fingers (not too firmly). Over center of the rice,
from left to right, place 1 spinach strip along with a Kampyo
portion, 2 egg strips, and several Shiitake strips. Each strip should
extend the length of the rice. Finally, add a modest amount of
drained pickled red ginger slivers along the top of the other strips.

Hold line of ingredients across rice firmly in place with finger tips.
Using thumbs, push up and turn bamboo sushi mat edge nearest you up
and over filling, pressing firmly to enclose filling, and lifting the
bamboo mat while rolling to keep it free from being enclosed in the
sushi roll. The idea is to get everything rolled before reaching the
far edge of the Nori sheet.  When sushi is rolled, gently but firmly,
press bamboo mat around roll again, but this time to shape. (The art
of making sushi is to get filling ingredients lined up in the center
of the roll). Unroll mat and wrap sushi in plastic or aluminum wrap;
repeat with remaining ingredients to make 10 rolls.

To serve, place rolls, seam-side down, on cutting surface and cut
crosswise into about 8 equal slices. (Refrigeration will cause sushi
to dry out, so eat). Enjoy!!!!! Jerry Masefield

