Title: VEGETABLE SOUP
Categories: Soups, Italian, Vegetables
Yield: 8 Servings
8 c  Chicken broth (see recipe)
1/3 c  Olive oil
1/4 c  Chopped parsley
4 ea Garlic cloves
1/4 lb Pancetta or unsmoked bacon
3 c  Shredded cabbage
1 ea Medium onion, finely chopped
2 ea Carrots, finely chopped
1 ea Celery stalk, finely chopped
1 ea Potato, peeled, chopped
2 ea Zucchini, finely chopped
1 ea Large tomato, chopped
1/4 lb Mushrooms, finely chopped
1/4 lb String beans finely chopped
4 ea Pieces prosciutto rind
1 x  Salt, to taste
1 x  Pepper, to taste
1/2 c  Grated Parmesan cheese
There are as many versions of vegetable soup in Italy as there there
are cooks. Pancetta - Pancetta is the same cut of pork as bacon. It
is cured with salt and is not smoked.  It comes rolled up like a
large salami. Widely used in Italian cooking, especially in
Emilia-Romagna, it is vital to many dishes. If available, buy a large
quantity. Cut into several pieces and freeze it.  You can substitute
domestic bacon for pancetta. It must be blanched in boiling water for
two three minutes to reduce the smoky flavour.  Fresh side pork can
also be used. I'll be posting several recipes over the next while
that call for pancetta, so if you can find some, it won't go to
waste. Prepare chicken broth (see my previously posted recipe). Heat
oil in a large saucepan. Add parsley and garlic. Saute over medium
heat.  Before garlic changes colour, add pancetta. Saute until
lightly browned.  Stir in cabbage.  Cover and cook 1 to 2 minutes.
Add remaining vegetables to saucepan. Cover and cook about 5 minutes.
Add broth and water, if using, and prosciutto rind or ham shank.
Cover and reduce heat. Simmer 40 to 50 minutes. Remove half the
vegetables with a slotted spoon. Place in a blender or food processor
and process until smooth. Return to saucepan. Season with salt and
pepper. Serve hot with Parmesan cheese sprinkled over top. Makes 8 to
10 servings. VARIATION: Toast about 20 thick slices of Italian bread.
Place 2 slices in each soup bowl and sprinkle generously with
Parmesan cheese. Ladle soup into bowls. Serve with additional
Parmesan cheese.

