Title: VEGETABLE & PORK STIR-FRY
Categories: Chinese, Pork, Microwave
Yield: 4 Servings
1 lb Lean boneless pork
2/3 c  Dry sherry
1/4 c  Hoisin sauce
1 tb Fresh ginger, grated
3    Cloves garlic, minced
1/2 lb Baby carrots (or carrots cut
-in 2-inch pieces)
1 tb Cornstarch
Nonstick spray coating
2 c  Fresh pea pods , halved
-crosswise (OR 6 oz
Frozen pea pods, thawed and
-halved crosswise)
1 tb Cooking oil
1 cn Oyster, straw, or shiitake
-mushrooms, drained
And cut into bite-size
-pieces (15 oz)
2 c  Bok choy or cabbage,
-shredded
Partially freeze pork; cut on the bias into thin, bite-size strips.
Place pork in a plastic bag set in a shallow baking dish. Combine
sherry, hoisin sauce, ginger, garlic and 1/2 cup water; pour over
pork. Close bag and marinate meat for 15 minutes at room temperature
or 1 to 2 hours in refrigerator. Meanwhile, cook carrots, covered, in
a small amount of boiling salted water for 5 minutes; drain.  Drain
pork ; save marinade. Stir cornstarch into marinade and set aside.
Spray a wok or 12 inch skillet with nonstick spray coating. Preheat
over high heat. Add carrots; stir-fry for 2 minutes.  Add peapods;
stir-fry for 2 minutes more. Remove vegetables from the wok.  Add oil
to the wok. Stir-fry pork, half at a time, until no pink remains, 2
to 3 minutes.  Return all of the pork to wok; push away from center.
Stir marinade mixture and add to center of wok. Cook and stir until
bubbly. Cook and stir for 1 minute more. Return vegetables to wok;
add mushrooms.  Cook and stir for 1 minute more. Serve over bok choy
or cabbage leaves.

MICROWAVE DIRECTIONS:  Freeze, slice and marinate pork as above. In a
1-quart microwave casserole, combine carrots and 2 tablespoons water.
Micro-cook on High for 3 minutes; drain. Preheat a 10-inch microwave
browning dish on High for 5 minutes.  Meanwhile, drain pork; save
marinade. Increase cornstarch to 4 teaspoons; stir into marinade and
set aside. Decrease oil to 1 teaspoon, and add to browning dish;
spread with wooden spoon.  Add pork.  Cook, uncovered, on High for 4
to 5 minutes or until no pink remains, stirring twice. Remove pork
and juices from browning dish and set aside.  Add carrots and peapods
to browning dish. Cook, covered, on High, for 2 minutes, stirring
twice. Stir pork and juices into the vegetables.  Add mushrooms.
Stir marinade; add to dish, mixing well. Cook, uncovered, for 6 to 7
minutes, stirring every 2 minutes. Continue cooking for 30 seconds
more.  Serve as directed.

LOW CALORIE RECIPES; Summer 1988

Posted by Fred Peters.

