Title: VEGETABLE CURRY (KREITZMAN)
Categories: None
Yield: 1 Servings
2 lg Onions, cut into eighths
2 1/2 c  Stock
2    Cloves garlic, crushed
1 1/2 ts Ground cumin
1 1/2 ts Ground coriander
1/2 ts Allspice
1/2 ts Ground turmeric
1/2 ts Ground ginger
1/4 ts Cayenne pepper (to taste, it
Varies widely in hotness)
1 sm Red & 1 small yellow pepper,
Chopped
3    Carrots, peeled & coarsely
Chopped
3/4 lb Mushrooms, quartered
1 tb Tomato puree
2 md Boiling potatoes, peeled &
Cut into 1.5 inch dice
1 lg Cauliflower, trimmed &
Broken into florets
1    Lemon, juiced
x  Salt to taste
1/2 lb Green beans, trimmed & cut
Into 1.5 inch lengths
1). Separate the onion pieces into segments & spread them in a heavy
frying pan. Add no liquid or fat. Heat the pan gently, cooking at
moderate heat without stirring for 7 to 10 minutes, until the onions
are sizzling, speckled with dark amber and beginning to stick to the
pan.

2). Stir in 1.5C stock and deglaze the pan (i.e. let it bubble up,
stirring up the browned bits in the pan with a spoon as it bubbles).
Stir in the garlic, spices, peppers, carrots & mushrooms. Reduce heat
& simmer, stirring frequently, until the mixture is very thick (not
at all soupy) and the vegetables are "frying" in their own juices.
Don't rush this step; it is essential that the spices should not have
a raw, harsh taste. Cook very gently for a few more minutes. Stir in
the tomato paste.

3). Cool slightly, then puree half the mixture in a blender & push it
through a sieve. Combine the pureed and unpureed mixture in the pan.
(I omitted step  3 - I like the chunks of vegetables:-)

4). Add the potatoes and cauliflower to the pan. Toss everything
together very well. Pour in additional stock to reach about one third
of the way up the sides of the pan. Squeeze the lemon juice over the
contents of the pan. Season with salt, bring to a boil.

5). Reduce heat, cover and simmer for 15 minutes. Stir in the beans &
continue simmering for 5 minutes more or until all the vegetables are
tender.

Note: this reheats very well. If you plan to cook it ahead, undercook
the curry slightly so that the vegetables do not become mushy when
they are reheated.

This is from "Slim Cuisine" by Sue Kreitzman, a lowfat (but not
exclusively vegetarian) cookery book.

From: MAYFLIES@aol.com. Fatfree Digest [Volume 10 Issue 16] Aug. 26,
1994. Formatted by Sue Smith, S.Smith34, TXFT40A@Prodigy.com using
MMCONV

