Title: VEGETABLE SALAD WITH ROMESCO SAUCE
Categories: Salad, Vegetables
Yield: 10 Servings
ROMESCO SAUCE:
1 lg Ripe tomato
4    Cloves garlic, peeled
4 tb Olive oil, divided
1/4 c  Fresh bread crumbs
1/4 c  Slivered almonds
1/4 ts Crushed red pepper
1/2 ts Salt
5 tb Red-wine vinegar, divided
SALAD:
1 lg White potato
1/4 md Onion, very thinly sliced
1/2 lb Green beans, cut in halves
1 md Zucchini, cut into 1/4"
Slices, each slice cut in
Half
1 sm Cucumber, cut into 1/4"
Slices, each slice cut in
Half
14    Green olives stuff with
Pimento, chopped finely
1    Whole canned pimento, diced
1    Hard-cooked egg, coarsely
Chopped
Freshly ground black pepper
To taste
1/4 c  Minced parsley
1. To prepare the romesco sauce: Put the tomato and garlic into a
small baking pan and roast in a preheated 400-degree oven 20-25
minutes, until tender and starting to brown. 2. Heat 1 tablespoon
olive oil in a small skillet set on medium heat.  Add the bread
crumbs and almonds, cooking until golden. 3. Puree the roasted tomato
and garlic in a food processor. Add the bread crumb mixture,
processing until the almonds are very finely chopped.  Add the
crushed pepper, cayenne, salt, 4 tablespoons vinegar and the
remaining 3 tablespoons olive oil. Process until thickened. 4. To
prepare the salad: Cut the potato in half, place in a saucepan, cover
with water and cook until tender, about 20-25 minutes. Drain; peel
and cut into thin slices. 5. Cover the onion with cold water and set
aside 10 minutes. Drain and pat dry.  Bring a pan of water to the
boil, add the beans and cook 5 minutes, until tender. Remove the
beans with a slotted spoon to a bowl of ice water.  Bring the water
back to a boil, add the zucchini and time 1 minute.  Add to the beans
in the ice water. When chilled, drain and pat dry. 6. Combine the
potatoes, onions, beans, zucchini, cucumber, olives, pimento, egg,
several grindings of pepper and parsley with the dressing. Let sit 1
hour at room temperature or refrigerate for longer storage. Stir in
the remaining tablespoon vinegar if needed.

