Title: VEGETABLE TERRINE
Categories: Appetizers
Yield: 8 Servings
MMMMM----------------------VEGETABLE LAYERS---------------------------
1 3/4 oz Dry shitake mushrooms
7 lg Cabbage leaves (preferably
-savoy)
12 oz Fresh spinach, stemmed
12 oz Fresh asparagas, trimmed
-and peeled
16 oz Red bell peppers, cut in
-lengthwise strips
12 oz Carrots, cut lengthwise in
-julienne strips
14 1/2 oz Artichoke hearts, drained
-and quartered lengthwise
MMMMM---------------------------BATTER--------------------------------
1/2 c  Buttermilk
1 tb Chopped fresh parsley
1 ts Dried thyme
1 ts Dried tarragon
2    Shallots, chopped
-salt and pepper to taste
MMMMM------------------------TOMATO SAUCE-----------------------------
1 lg Tomato, peeled and seeded
-and chopped (1 cup)
1/4 c  Buttermilk
1 tb Tomato paste
pn Cayenne pepper
1    Garlic clove, chopped
Salt and pepper to taste
TO PREPARE VEGETABLE LAYERS: 1) In small bowl, combine dry mushrooms
and hot water to cover. Let stand 30 minutes. Drain. 2) While
mushrooms are rehydrating, bring large pot of water to boiling.
Blanch vegetables in separate batches in boiling water. Blanch
cabbage leaves 3 minutes, spinach leaves 1 minute, asparagus and red
pepper strips 3 minutes, and carrots 4 minutes. Plunge vegetables
into ice water after blanching. Drain. 3) Pat all blanched
vegetables, mushrooms, and artichokes dry between 2 to 3 layers of
paper towels, applying gentle pressure to squeeze out as much liquid
as possible. (spinach leaves should be opened out flat to assume
original shape) TO MAKE BATTER: 1) In medium bowl combine eggs, 1/2
cup buttermilk, parsley, thyme, tarragon, shallots, and salt and
pepper to taste. Whisk until blended. (This batter is overseasoned
because it will flavor all the vegetables) TO ASSEMBLE TERRINE: 1)
Generously butter 9x5x3 inch loaf pan. Using a triangular-shaped cut,
remove 1 to 2 inches of hard white stem from cabbage leaves to make
leaves more flexible. 2) Line sides, then bottom of pan with cabbage
leaf to make leaves, overlapping the leaves generously to form a
"leakproof shell" and allowing leaves to extend well over the rim of
the pan. (The tops of leaves will be folded over the top of the
finished terrine.) Pour 1/2 cup batter over cabbage in bottom of pan.
3) Arrange asparagus spears lengthwise in pan, packing spears tightly
together. Add 2 layers of red pepper strips placed crosswise in pan.
Pour in a little more batter, pressing peppers down gently. 4) Layer
mushrooms over peppers. Layer carrots lengthwise in pan. Pour in a
little more batter, pressing carrots down gently. (Pressing each
layer down will raise the level of the batter) 5) Layer half the
spinach leaves over carrots. Add a layer of artichoke hearts over
spinach, then add a little more batter. Gently press down artichoke
hearts. 6) Top with a layer of remaining spinach leaves, add
remaining batter and pressing down each layer. Fold ends of cabbage
leaves over top of terrine. 7) Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Cover
loaf pan with buttered parchment paper cut to fit inside edge of pan.
Place loaf pan in 13x9x2 inch baking pan. Pour hot water around loaf
pan to depth of 1 inch. 8) Bake at 350 degrees F. for two hours until
firm. Remove from water bath. Cool on rack (still covered with
parchment paper) 2 hours. 9) Refrigerate, still covered, overnight.
TO MAKE TOMATO SAUCE: 1) In blender, combine chopped tomato, 1/4 cup
buttermilk, tomato paste, cayenne pepper, garlic, and salt and pepper
to taste. Blend until smooth. TO SERVE: 1) Loosen edges of terrine
with knife. Invert on serving platter. Cut cold terrine in crosswise
slices with serrated knife. 2) Spread a thin layer of tomato sauce on
each serving plate. Arrange slices of terrine over sauce.

