Title: VEGGIE FLAVORED PASTA - NO EGG
Categories: Vegetarian, Low-fat, Pasta
Yield: 4 Servings
MMMMM---------------------BASIC INGREDIENTS--------------------------
1 c  Flour, all purpose
Preferably durum semolina
1/3 c  Water
MMMMM--------------------OPTIONAL INGREDIENTS-------------------------
1 tb Olive oil (optional)
Use one of following only:
1/4 c  Tomato Juice (for red)
1/3 c  Carrot Puree (for orange)
1/3 c  Beet Puree (for red)
1 c  Spinach puree (for green)
To make by hand, use a floured pastry cloth, put dry ingredients on
cloth, and make a "well" in the center of flour mixture, add liquid
ingredients in the well, and knead the dough, working the flour to
the center as you knead. After it forms a ball, knead by hand for
several minutes. To make with a food processor, put all ingredients
in the bowl. Process for 1 minute until dough begins to form. Adjust
liquid or flour if necessary, continue to knead in the machine for
1-1/2 to 2-1/2 minutes. To make with bread machine, place ingredients
into baking pan. Use the dough cycle, knead for 1/2 min. Adjust flour
and liquid to form a round ball of dough. Knead for another 5
minutes, then press stop button. IF YOU HAVE A PASTA MACHINE,
CONTINUE ACCORDING TO INSTRUCTIONS. To complete the pasta by hand,
roll the dough into sheets, as thin as it is possible to roll it on a
floured pastry cloth with a rolling pin. Then shape into long thin
spaghetti like strips, or wider for noodles. Cut with a pie crimper
for a fancy edge and twist into bowknots. Use your imagination. Allow
to dry a minimum of 10-20 minutes, or longer, if necessary. It may be
dried for several hours, put into a ziploc bag and refrigerated or
frozen. To cook, drop into boiling water (with a little salt,
optional), and cook just until al dente.  Do not overcook. Serve with
your favorite sauce. You can make a white pasta, leaving out the
vegetables, or you can use your imagination, be creative, and use any
number of other veggies. Try green, yellow, red, purple, orange
pepper puree; yellow summer squash or zucchini; winter squash,
pumpkin or sweet potato; broccoli, green beans, vegetarian refried
beans.  The list is endless. Just use approximately one-third cup of
the one you choose.

