Title: VERY SPICY DELICIOUS CHICKPEAS
Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian, Indian
Yield: 1 Recipe
5 tb Vegetable oil
2 md Onions; peeled and minced
8    Garlic cloves
-- peeled and minced
1 tb Ground coriander seeds
2 ts Ground cumin seeds
1/4 ts Ground cayenne pepper
- or more
1 ts Ground turmeric
6 tb Red-ripe tomatoes
-- (finely chopped, skinned)
-- fresh or canned
40 oz Canned chickpeas; -OR-
4 1/2 c  -Home-cooked chickpeas
2 ts Ground roasted cumin seeds
1 tb Ground amchoor (opt.); OR...
1 sm -Lime (juice & pulp only)
2 ts Kashmiri red pepper
1 ts Garam masala
1/2 ts Salt (or to taste)
1 tb Lemon juice (or more)
1    Fresh hot green chili
-- minced
2 ts Fresh ginger
-- (very finely grated)
This dish, a staple street food of the bazaars of Old Delhi, is
wonderfully tart and hot.  It requires two similar spice blends, one
added to the browned onions and garlic, the other toward the end of
the cooking time. Amchoor (powdered green mango) lends a haunting
sourness. If you can't find this ingredient, substitute the juice and
pulp of a small lime (the dish is also delicious without either). You
may use Hungarian paprika as a substitute for Kashmiri red pepper;
either will give color but no heat.

These spicy chickpeas can be made up to two days ahead of time. In
fact, their flavor improves if they are left, refrigerated, for at
least 24 hours.

DIRECTIONS: =========== Heat the oil in a wide pot over a medium
flame. When hot, put in the minced onions and garlic. Stir and fry
until the mixture is a rich medium brown shade. Turn heat to medium
low and add the coriander, cumin, (NOT the roasted cumin), cayenne,
and turmeric. Stir for a few seconds.  Now put in the finely chopped
tomatoes. Stir for a few seconds.  Now put in the finely chopped
tomatoes. Stir and fry until the tomatoes are well amalgamated with
the spice mixture and brown lightly. Add the drained chickpeas and 1
cup water. Stir. Add the ground roasted cumin, amchoor, red pepper,
garam masala, salt, and lemon juice. Stir again. Cover, turn heat to
low, and simmer for 10 minutes. Remove cover and add the minced green
chili and grated ginger. Stir and cook, uncovered, for another 30
seconds.

* Source: World-of-the-East Vegetarian Cooking - by Madhur Jaffrey *
Published in: The Herb Companion - February/March 1993 * Typed for
you by Karen Mintzias

