Title: VIBRANT COLD VEGETABLE TERRINE
Categories: Vegetables, Appetizers
Yield: 12 Servings
MMMMM-----------------CARROT-CAULIFLOWER LAYERS----------------------
10 oz Frozen Belgian carrots
- cooked until tender,
- then blotted dry
- on paper towels
10 oz Frozen cauliflower,
- cooked until tender,
- then blotted dry
- on paper towels
1 tb Vegetable oil
1 c  Frozen chopped onions
2 tb Unsalted butter
2    Eggs
1/2 c  Grated Parmesan cheese
1/4 c  Dried bread crumbs
1 ts Salt; or to taste
1/2 ts Dried chervil leaves
- crumbled
1/4 ts White pepper
1 ts Lemon juice
Butter; to grease the pan
MMMMM-------------------MUSHROOM-SPINACH LAYER------------------------
10 oz Frozen chopped spinach
- defrosted & squeezed dry
1 tb Vegetable oil
1 c  Frozen chopped onions
8 oz Frozen sliced mushrooms
2 tb Unsalted butter
2    Eggs
1/2 c  Dried bread crumbs
1 ts Salt; or to taste
1/8 ts Ground nutmeg
1 pn Ground red pepper
Freshly ground black pepper
MAKE THE CARROT-CAULIFLOWER LAYERS. Place the carrots and cauliflower
in the bowl of a food processor fitted with a steel chopping blade.
Process until smooth. In a large skillet, heat the oil over
medium-high heat. Add the onions and saute them until tender and
golden. This will take about 5 minutes. Stir in the butter and let it
melt. Scrape the onions and butter into the processor. Add all the
remaining ingredients for the carrot-cauliflower layers and process
until smooth. Scrape into a bowl, cover, and refrigerate while
preparing the other layer. Preheat your oven to 350F. Bring a large
pot of water to a boil. Butter a 9-by-5-by-3-inch loaf pan. Line the
bottom and ends with buttered wax paper, buttered side up. MAKE THE
SPINACH-MUSHROOM LAYER. Place the spinach in the processor and pulse
a few times. Cook the onions in hot oil for 1 minute. Add the frozen
mushrooms and cook them along with the onions over high heat until
all the liquid has evaporated, about 6 to 7 minutes. Stir in the
butter. Scrape the mixture into the processor. Add all the remaining
ingredients and process until smooth. Scrape about half of the
carrot-cauliflower mixture into the pan, packing it well into the
corners, and flattening it with a spatula or the palm of your hand to
remove any air pockets. Add all of the spinach-mushroom mixture, and
again flatten it. Finally, add the remaining carrot mixture. Smooth
it down on top. Cover with buttered wax paper. Place pan in another
pan and fill the latter with boiling water to a level of 2 inches up
the side of the terrine. Bake in the preheated oven for 1 1/4 hours,
or until a knife inserted into the middle comes out clean. Remove
terrine from the oven and cover it with a piece of cardboard or a
second loaf pan (the same size) right side up. Place about 1 pound of
weight, evenly distributed, on the terrine. Refrigerate until well
chilled, at least 2 hours. Once chilled, carefully remove from the
pan by running a thin-bladed knife between the terrine and the pan.
Invert onto a flat dish, peel off the paper and serve. Garnish with
curly leafed lettuce, if desired.

