Title: VIETNAMESE SPRING ROLLS #2
Categories: Appetizers, Vietnam
Yield: 16 Servings
8 oz Chicken breasts, boneless, s
-kinless
2 tb Soy sauce
1 tb Hoisin sauce
1 tb Water
2 ts Orange juice concentrate, fr
-ozen
1 ts Peanut butter
1/2 ts Chile paste, oriental
1 ts Sesame oil
2 ts Cornstarch
8    Shiitake mushrooms, dried
2 oz Rice vermicelli noodles
2 tb Peanut oil
1 tb Ginger root; minced
2    Garlic cloves; minced
3    Scallions; minced
1    Red pepper, sweet, julienned
3 tb Coriander or parsley, fresh,
-chopped
30    Rice paper triangles (or 16
-rounds)
6 c  Vegetable oil for deep fryin
-g
Cut chicken into 1-1/2 x 1/2 inch strips.  In bowl, blend soy
sauce and hoisin sauces, water, orange juice concentrate, peanut
butter, chili paste and sesame oil until smooth. Stir in cornstarch.
Add chicken and stir to coat; marinate for 15 minutes.
Cover mushrooms with warm water; soak for 15 to 50 minutes or
until softened.  Drain and rinse; discard stems and slice caps into
thin strips.
Meanwhile, break noodles into 1-1/2 inch long pieces. Place in
bowl and cover with water; soak for 5 minutes, then drain. In
saucepan of boiling water, cook noodles for 5 minutes. Drain and
rinse with cold water; drain well.
In wok or skillet, heat peanut oil over med-high heat; cook
ginger, garlic and onions for 30 seconds. Add red pepper and
mushrooms; cook for 3 minutes.  Add chicken with marinade; cook for 3
inside.
to 4 minutes or just until chicken is no longer pink
Stir in noodles and coriander; let cool.
Dip rice papers, one at a time, into warm water to soften; lay
out on damp tea towels in a single layer. Place about 2 Tbsp filling
in centre of each triangular sheet (or 1/4 cup in each round sheet).
Fold up bottom over filling; fold sides over and roll up tightly.
(Rolls can be covered with damp tea towel in separate layers and
refrigerated for up to 8 hours)
In wok or Dutch oven, heat oil over med-high heat to 375F. Fry
rolls, in batches, for about 5 minutes or until crisp and golden on
all sides. Drain on rack. Makes 16 large or 30 small rolls.
Instead of deep-frying, steam spring rolls in greased steamer for
5 minutes, or bake for 20 minutes in 400 degree oven.

