Title: VIETNAMESE CHICKEN NOODLE SOUP
Categories: Poultry
Yield: 1 Recipe
Soup base
2 cn Beef stock, more desirable
- equivalent homemade stock
sm Cut of ribeye steak, sliced
Thinly
1 pk Rice noodles (i usually use
Less than one package
Because i
Prefer veggies over noodles)
I've become such a Pho fan ('scuse the alliteration) that I've
learned to make a rip-off version at home with my favorite
components. I prefer beef over chicken, but you could probably just
make the appropriate substitutions to arrive at something you like...
Condiments green onions, julienne style bean sprouts lime wedges
chopped cilantro Chinese Chili Paste or equally insane heat
ingredient Anaheim chili, sliced thinly Method Heat the stock to
boiling, add the meat and boil until meat is cooked through. Add rice
noodles and cook for a few more minutes. Serve in a huge bowl with
condiments on a separate plate. Add the amount and type of condiments
that you prefer and enjoy! NOTE: have tissues handy - this will ream
your sinuses out! Very healthy for people with allergies and/or upper
respiratory problems. NOTE2: when slicing Anaheim chili (as with all
fresh chilis), wear protective gloves and be careful not to touch
unprotected skin with your gloved. The oils present in fresh chilis
can burn and irritate your skin, particularly mucous membranes in the
nose and/or eyes. NOTE3: this make a fabulous meal when paired with
salad rolls. A recipe follows: Vietnamese Salad Rolls Salad Roll
Wrappers (must be purchased in Asian markets or specialty stores.
They are packaged about 100 to the package, but don't worry - they
last forever if protected from moisture.) Rice Noodles Bean Sprouts
fresh Cilantro and/or mint (an ageless controversy -which is best?
you decide) green onions, julienned carrots, julienned celery,
julienned *red pepper, julienned (optional) *Anaheim chili, julienned
(optional) cooked meat, julienned (can include Chinese style roast
pork, leftover cooked chicken, bay shrimp, cooked pork loin, or any
combination thereof) Purchased Peanut Sauce (Taste of Thai makes a
good one, but it has to be mixed with Coconut Milk, which drives up
the calories. Look for a mix that can be mixed with water, add a
little chili paste or "Dave's Insane Sauce" for piquancy, and use for
a dipping sauce for the Salad Rolls Take a dinner plant and put hot
tap water on it. Take a Wrapper and wet it, making sure that every
part gets wet. Transfer to another clean plate and place filling
items on top. Wrap it like a burrito, closed at both ends: flip one
end over the filling. Fold in the perpendicular ends to close in the
filling. Roll in direction of first fold until you reach the end of
the wrapper. The gluten in the wrapper will self-seal it. Set aside
and repeat until your filling ingredients are gone, or you've reached
the limit of what can be eaten at that meal. These do not keep well -
don't try to refrigerate or freeze them - it's a disaster. Salad
Rolls make a great meal with a pot of Hot and Sour soup as an
accompaniment, or a big bowl of Pho (Noodle Soup) and some peanut
sauce.

