Title: VIETNAMESE PHO
Categories: Soups, Vietnamese
Yield: 4 Servings
5 lb Beef bones with marrow
5 lb Oxtails
1 lb Flank steak
2 lg Onions; unpeeled, halved,
-and studded with 8 cloves
3    Shallots; unpeeled
2 oz Piece ginger; unpeeled
8    Star anise
1    Cinnamon stick
4 md Parsnips cut in 2-inch
-chunks
2 ts Salt
1 lb Beef sirloin
2    Scallions; thinly sliced
1 tb Cilantro; chopped
2 md Onions; thinly sliced
1/4 c  Hot chili sauce
1 lb Rice noodles 1/4-inch wide
-(or banh pho)
1/2 c  Nuoc mam (Vietnamese fish
-sauce)
Black pepper; freshly grnd.
2 c  Fresh bean sprouts
2    Fresh chili peppers; sliced
2    Limes cut in wedges
1 bn Fresh mint
1 bn Fresh Asian or regular basil
Soak bone overnight in cold water.  Place bones, oxtails and flank
steak in a large stock pot.  Add water to cover and bring to a boil.
Cook 10 minutes, drain and rinse pot and bones. Return bones to pot,
add 6 quarts water and bring to a boil.  Skim surface of scum and
fat. Stir bones at bottom from time to time. Add 3 more quarts water,
bring to a boil again and skim scum.  Lower heat and let simmer.
Char clove-studded onions, shallots, and ginger under a broiler until
they release their fragrant odors.  Tie charred vegetables, star
anise, and cinnamon stick in a thick, dampened cheesecloth.  Put it
in stock with parsnips and salt. Simmer for 1 hour. Remove flank
steak and continue simmering broth, uncovered pot, for 4-5 hours.
Add more water if level goes below bones.

Meanwhile, slice beef sirloin against grain into paper-thin slices,
about 2-by-2 inches.  Slice flank steak the same way. Set aside. In a
small bowl, combine scallions, cilantro, and half the sliced onions.
Place remaining onions in another bowl and mix in hot chili sauce.
Soak rice noodles in warm water for 30 minutes. Drain and set aside.

When broth is ready, discard bones.  Strain broth through a colander
lined with a double layer of damp cheesecloth into a clean pot. Add
fish sauce and bring to a boil. Reduce heat to simmer. In another
pot, bring 4 quarts of water to a boil.  Add noodles and drain
immediately. Do not overcook noodles. Divide among 4 large soup
bowls. Top noodles with sliced meats. Bring broth to a rolling boil,
then ladle into soup bowls. Garnish with scallions mixture and black
pepper. Serve the onions in hot chili sauce and remaining ingredients
on the side to add as desired. Also, you can add Hoisin sauce as a
dip. Serves 4.

Source: "The foods of Vietnam" by Nicole Routhier (Stewart, Tabori &
Chang)

From the rec.food.recipe archives. From: nguyenc@rtsg.mot.com (Chuong
M. Nguyen)

MM format by Judi M. Phelps. jphelps@shell.portal.com,
juphelps@delphi.com, or jphelps@best.com

