Title: WARM LOBSTER TACOS WITH YELLOW TOMATO SALSA
Categories: Appetizers, Fish and se, Salsas, Texas, Tomatoes
Yield: 6 Servings
Lobster  Filling---
4    1 pound lobsters
6    7-inch fresh Flour Tortillas
(separate recipe)
3 tb Corn oil
1 c  Jalapeno Jack cheese --
Grated
1 c  Spinach leaves -- shredded
Yellow Tomato Salsa---
1 lb Yellow tomatoes
1 lg Shallot -- very finely
Minced
1 lg Clove garlic -- very finely
Minced
2 tb Fresh cilantro -- very
Finely minced
1 tb Champagne (or white wine)
Vinegar
2    Whole serrano chiles --
Seeded and minced
2 ts Lime juice
Salt -- to taste
1 tb Maple syrup (optional) -- if
Not sweet enough
Jicama Salad (separate
Recipe)
For the Lobster Filling:  Preheat oven to 300 degrees. Fill a large
stock pot with lightly salted water and bring to a boil over high
heat. Add lobsters and cook for about 8 minutes or until just done.
Drain and let lobsters cool slightly. Wrap tortillas tightly in foil
and place in preheated 300 degree oven for about 15 minutes or until
heated through. Keep warm until ready to use. Remove meat from
lobster tails being careful not to tear it apart. Cut meat into thin
medallions (or medium-sized dice, if meat breaks apart). Heat oil in
a medium saute pan over medium heat and saute lobster medallions
until just heated through. Spoon equal portions of warm lobster
medallions into the center of each warm tortilla. Sprinkle with equal
portions of grated cheese and shredded spinach. Roll tortillas into a
cylinder shape and place each one on a warm serving plate with the
edge facing the bottom. Surround the taco with Yellow Tomato Salsa
and garnish each side with a small mound of Jicama Salad (separate
recipe).

For the Yellow Tomato Salsa:  In a food processor, using the steel
blade, process tomatoes until well chopped. Do not puree. Combine
tomatoes and their juices with shallot, garlic, cilantro, vinegar,
chilies, lime juice, and salt, mixing well. Add maple syrup, if
needed, to balance flavor and sweeten slightly. Cover and refrigerate
for at least 2 hours or until very cold. Note: For a crunchier, more
typical salsa, put tomatoes through fine die of a food grinder.

Chef's Notes:  "I created this dish in early 1986 and it quickly
became my signature appetizer on The Mansion on Turtle Creek menu.
The name 'Lobster Taco' perfectly illustrates the casual elegance
that characterizes Southwest cuisine. Its appeal is rooted in the
combination of rich lobster and a simple flour tortilla. The salsa
and salad garnishes produce an explosion of color that promises
exciting dining".

__The Mansion on Turtle Creek Cookbook__ by Dean Fearing, edited by
Dotty Griffith, 1987.

: Dean Fearing, __The Mansion on Turtle Creek Cookbook__
Recipe By

From:

