Title: WHITE CHOCOLATE CHIP WITH MACADAMIA NUT
Categories: Cookies
Yield: 8 Servings
1/2 c  (1 stick) unsalted butter,
-cut into 1/4ths, room
Temperature
1/3 c  Sugar
1/3 c  Firmly packed golden brown
-sugar
1 lg Egg
1 ts Vanilla extract
1 c  All purpose flour
1/2 ts Baking soda
1/4 ts Salt
6 1/2 oz White chocolate, coarsely
-chopped
And finally, take out a
-loan, and get:
3/4 c  Macadamia nuts, halved
Jean Cody (Home Sweet Home?? This place is a ZOO!!
FROM:
(Rochester, NY) (1:260/250))

This makes about 8, so gather the following stuff:

Let's see...turn to page 97.......

Preheat oven to 375 F, and lightly grease 2 cookie sheets.

In a food processor using steel blade, blend butter, sugars, egg, and
vanilla until fluffy, stopping once to scrape the sides of the bowl,
about 1 minute.  Add flour, baking soda, and salt and mix until just
combined using 2 or 3 pulsed things; do not over-process. Transfer to
large bowl and stir in chocolate and nuts....

Mound dough by 1/3 cupfuls onto prepared cookie sheets, spacing about
2 inches apart.  Bake until light brown around the edges, about 15
minutes. Cool on the cookie sheets about 3 minutes. Transfer to rack
and cool completely.

You don't need me to tell you what to do next.........

Might as well go all out with....WHITE CHOCOLATE AND MACADAMIA
BROWNIES WITH HOT FUDGE SAUCE.....be sure and save these for
company.....<all knowing grin>.......

1 C unbleached all purpose flour 1/4 t salt 2 large eggs at room
temperature 1/2 C sugar 7 oz of white chocolate, chopped then melted
1/2 C (1 stick) unsalted butter, melted 1 t vanilla extract 1 C
chopped macadamia nuts.  If they are salted, wash them and pat
dry.... 5 oz white chocolate, coarsely chopped (in addition to above)
Hot fudge sauce....recipe follows....

Preheat oven to 350 F and butter and flour 9 x 13 baking pan. Sift
flour with salt into bowl.  Using electric mixer, beat eggs in a
large bowl until frothy.  Add sugar 1 T at a time and beat until pale
yellow and slowly dissolving ribbon forms when beaters are lifted.
Gently fold in melted chocolate (mixture may lose volume, which is ok
cause this gets loud). Add melted butter and vanilla and stir well.
(Don't worry if mixture looks curdled....I swear that's what it
says). Fold in flour, then nuts, and chopped chocolate. Pour batter
into prepared pan. Bake until toothpick inserted in center comes out
not quite clean, about 25 minutes; do not overbake.  Cool and cut
into serving size pieces, about 2 feet square, and top with
sauce.......that's next:

HOT FUDGE SAUCE

3/4 C whipping cream...if confusion, heavy cream 1/4 C sugar Turn to
page 145.....we are really lucky, the magazine is only 147 pages.....
5 oz bittersweet or semisweet chocolate, chopped 2 T unsalted butter
2 T light corn sysop...I mean syrup

Cook cream and sugar in heavy, small saucepan over low heat, stirring
until sugar dissolves.  Add chocolate and stir until melted and
smooth. Add butter and corn syrup, stirring until butter
melts........done deal....

** -=> this comes from the bottom of the files of Shelley Rodgers <=-

