Title: WHITE CHOCOLATE LASAGNA WITH PEANUT ICE CREAM
Categories: Chocolate, Desserts, Ice cream
Yield: 4 Servings
3 1/2 c  Half & half
8    Egg yolks
1 3/4 c  Sugar
2 ts Vanilla
1/2 c  Smooth peanut butter
1/2 c  Heavy cream
1 c  Unsalted dry-roasted
-peanuts, coarsely chopped
-(about 5 oz)
3 oz Bars white chocolate, broken
-in half widthwise
16 oz Bittersweet chocolate
8 oz Unsalted butter
1 c  Evaporated milk
Servings:  4

Mint sprigs for garnish

In medium saucepan, scald the half & half over medium heat, set
aside. In medium bowl, whisk together the egg yolks, 3/4 cup sugar, a
pinch of salt, and 1 tsp of the vanilla. Gradually whisk in the half
& half and transfer to the saucepan.  Cook this mixture over moderate
heat, stirring constantly, until just thick enough to coat the back
of a spoon (165 on a candy thermometer). This will take 10-15
minutes. DO NOT bring to a boil or you'll have a curdled mess on your
hands. Remove from heat and whisk in the peanut butter, then add the
cream. Strain this custard into a bowl and refrigerate, stirring
occasionally, until well chilled. In the meantime, line a 10-by-15
inch jelly roll pan with wax paper. Transfer custard to a Donvier or
other ice cream freezer and freeze until thickened but still
pourable.  Add peanuts.  Pour mixture into the jelly roll pan, spread
evenly, cover, and freeze overnight.

Prepare sugar syrup by mixing the remaining 1 cup of sugar with 1 cup
of water.  Bring to a boil to dissolve the sugar, then remove from
heat and set aside 'til later.

Preheat oven on lowest setting for 5 minutes, then turn it off. Place
the 6 pieces of white chocolate on a large baking sheet lined with
wax paper. Place in the warm oven until soft enough to yield when
pressed by a finger, about 6 minutes.  Using a metal spatula,
transfer a piece of softened chocolate to an individual piece of wax
paper (at least 12 inches long) and cover with a second sheet of
paper.  Using a large heavy rolling pin, gently roll the chocolate
between the paper to form a thin sheet of chocolate, about 11 by 4
inches. Set each sheet of chocolate aside while you repeat this with
the rest of the chocolate. Line 3 baking sheets with wax paper.  When
the white chocolate is cooled and firm, remove the top piece of paper
from each chocolate sheet. Using a pizza wheel or long sharp knife,
trim the edges of each sheet to make a neat 3-by-10-inch rectangle,
then cut each rectangle crosswise to form two 3-by-5-inch pieces.
Transfer 4 rectangles to each of the prepared baking sheets. Keep
cool.

In a double boiler, melt the bittersweet chocolate with the butter,
stirring until smooth.  Transfer to a bowl. Whisk in 1 cup of the
reserved sugar syrup. Stir in the evaporated milk and 1 tsp. vanilla.
Set aside, covered.  Note:  this sauce can be made up to 1 week in
advance and kept, covered, in the fridge.

With a pizza cutter or thin sharp knife, cut the ice cream into ten 3
by-5-inch rectangles.  There will be a little left over; do what you
will with it. ;-) With a spatula, place a piece of the ice cream on
each of the 4 pieces of white chocolate.  Top each with another piece
of chocolate, then another layer of ice cream, then another piece of
chocolate. Freeze for 3 to 4 hours.

To serve, remove the assembled lasagnas from the freezer and allow to
soften slightly at room temperature for a few minutes. Gently reheat
the fudge sauce in the top of a double boiler or in the microwave.
Place each of the portions to serving plates, spoon fudge sauce over,
garnish with mint, and serve immediately.

From Food & Drink Magazine, March 1990 (special CHOCOLATE issue),
recipe originally from The Rattlesnake Club, Detroit. ^^^^^^^^^

