Title: WHITE CHOCOLATE FANTASY CAKE
Categories: Cakes
Yield: 10 Servings
MMMMM------------------------FOR THE CAKE-----------------------------
4    Egg whites
1 1/4 c  Flour
1 tb Finely shredded lemon peel
2 ts Baking powder
1/4 ts Salt
3 oz White baking bar, chopped
3/4 c  Half&Half, light cream/milk
1/3 c  Butter or margarine
1 c  Sugar
1 ts Vanilla
4    Egg yolks
1 c  Fresh raspberries or sliced
-strawberries
3 tb Raspberry liqueur
MMMMM----------------------FOR THE FROSTING---------------------------
4 oz White baking bar, chopped
1 1/2 c  Whipped cream
1 tb Cold water
1/2 ts Unflavored gelatin
3 tb Sugar
MMMMM---------------------FOR THE GARNISHES--------------------------
1/2 c  Fresh raspberries or sliced
-strawberries
White chocolate curls
Powdered sugar
For the Cake: 1. In a medium mixing bowl, let egg whites stand at room
temperature for about 30 minutes. In a small mixing bowl, stir
together flour, lemon peel, baking powder, and salt. Set flour
mixture aside. 2. Melt the 3 oz. white baking bar with 1/4 cup of the
half and half, milk or light cream in a small heavy saucepan over
very low heat, stir- ring constantly till baking bar starts to melt.
Immediately remove from heat and stir till baking bar is completely
melted smooth. Stir in remaining half and half, milk or cream; cool.
3. In a large mixing bowl, beat the margarine or butter with an elec-
tric mixer on medium to high speed about 30 seconds, or until soft.
Add sugar and vanilla; beat till combined. Add the egg yolks, one at
a time, beating till combined. Alternately add the flour mixture and
the white baking bar mixture, beating on low to medium speed after
each addition just till combined. 4. Wash beaters. In a medium mixing
bowl, beat the egg whites with an electric mixer on high speed till
stiff peaks form. Gently fold in the egg whites into the batter.
Spread batter into 2 greased and light- ly floured 8 x 1 1/2 inch
round baking pans. 5. Bake in a 350F oven for 25-30 minutes or till a
wooden toothpick in- serted in the center comes out clean. Cool cakes
in pans on wire racks, for 10 minutes. Remove from pans. Cook cakes
completely on racks.

For the Filling: 1. In a small bowl, combine the 1 cup berries and
raspberry liqueur, if using. Set aside till needed. 2. Put raspberry
jam in small bowl and stir to soften. Set aside till needed.

To Assemble the Cake: 1. Prepare the frosting and set aside. 2. To
assemble cake, place one layer on a cake plate. Drain the liqueur
from the berries and drizzle liqueur over the cake layer on the
plate. Stir jam again to soften, and spread over the cake layer. Top
with 1/3 of the White chocolate frosting. Spoon the 1 cup of berries
on top of the frosting. 3. Top the berries with the remaining cake
layer. Frost top and sides with remaining frosting. Gently place the
White chocolate curls on the frosting on the top of the cake in any
manner which you would like. Carefully cover the cake loosely with
plastic wrap and chill for up to 24 hours. Just before serving,
sprinkle cake with 1/2 cup berries and sift powdered sugar lightly
over cake.

For the Frosting: 1. Chill a medium mixing bowl and the beaters of an
electric mixer. 2. Place the white baking bar and 1/4 cup of the
whipping cream in a small heavy saucepan over very low heat, stirring
constantly till the baking bar starts to melt. Immediately remove
from the heat and stir until smooth. Cool completely. 3. In a 1 cup
glass measure combine the cold water and unflavored gelatin. Let
stand 2 minutes. Place cup in saucepan of boiling water. Heat and
stir till gelatin is completely dissolved. 4. In the chilled mixing
bowl, beat the remaining 1 1/4 cups of whipping cream and sugar with
the chilled beaters on medium speed while gradually drizzling gelatin
over whipping cream mixture. Beat till soft peaks start to form.
Continue beating, gradually adding cooled baking bar mixture until
stiff peaks form. Do not overbeat. Use immediately to frost cake.
Makes 2 1/2 cups.

Source: Better Homes and Gardens Magazine, Feb. 1994 Typed for you by:
Linda Fields, Cyberealm BBS Watertown NY 315-786-1120

Nutritional Information: per serving: 532 calories, 29 g total fat,
141 mg chol, 193 mg sodium, 62g carbo, 1g fiber, 7g pro.

