Title: WHITE CHOCOLATE MINT TRUFFLES
Categories: Candies
Yield: 45 Servings
1/2 lb White chocolate; cut into
-small pieces
1/2 c  Packed, fresh mint leaves
-(green or white)
1/4 c  Heavy cream
2 tb Creme de menthe
6 tb Unsalted butter; cut into
-small pieces
To make the truffles: Melt the chocolate in a large heatproof bowl
set over gently simmering water. When chocolate is almost melted,
turn off the heat and let stand until completely melted, stirring
occasionally.

Meanwhile, in a small saucepan, steep mint leaves in cream and creme
de menthe until liquid is very flavorful (amount of time depends upon
the strength of the mint leaves). Then bring just to a simmer,
strain, pressing down on the mint leaves to give as much flavor as
possible, and whisk into the melted chocolate. Place the pieces of
butter around the warm mixture and let the butter melt. When melted,
stir to mix well. Pour mixture into a shallow pan, giving you a
1-inch-thick layer of chocolate. Cool completely and then refrigerate
or freeze until very firm.

To form the truffles: Have a small bowl of very hot water ready and
replace the water as it cools down. Line a baking tray with parchment
paper. Remove truffle base from the refrigerator or freezer. Before
scooping out a ball of chocolate, dip the melon baller into the hot
water, shaking to remove any excess water. Scoop out a truffle,
tapping the melon baller on a firm surface to release the truffle.
Quickly roll between the palms of your hands and place on the
prepared baking tray. You will have to wash your hands in cold water
often to prevent the chocolate from sticking to your hands. Repeat
this procedure until all the balls have been scooped and rolled. If
the truffle base begins to soften too much, refrigerate or freeze
until firm and then continue to scoop out the truffles. Refrigerate
or freeze until needed. Makes 45 to 50 small truffles.

from "Spago Desserts" by Mary Bergin and Judy Gethers

reprinted in The Times-Picayune, December 22, 1994

