Title: WHITE CHOCOLATE BUNDT CAKE
Categories: Cakes, Holiday
Yield: 12 Servings
3 c  Flour; all-purpose
1 ts Baking powder
1/4 ts Baking soda
1/2 ts Salt
1 c  Unsalted butter; softened
.  (2 sticks) plus about
1 tb Butter; for greasing pan
2 c  Sugar; plus about
2 tb Sugar; for sugaring pan
1 1/2 ts Vanilla extract
1/2 ts Almond extract
5 lg Eggs
4 oz White chocolate; melted &
-still warm
1 c  Sour cream
4 oz White chocolate chunks/chips
4 oz Semisweet chocolate; melt
-while cake is cooling
MMMMM------------------WHITE CHOCOLATE GANACHE-----------------------
8 oz White chocolate; chopped
1/2 c  Heavy cream
Preheat oven to 350 F. Butter and sugar a 10-inch Bundt pan.

In a bowl, sift together the flour, baking powder, baking soda and
salt.

Put the remaining 1 cup butter and 2 cups sugar in a bowl and cream
together using the electric mixer on medium speed until light and
fluffy. Add the vanilla and almond extracts and the eggs, 1 at a
time, beating for 20 seconds after each addition. Slowly beat in the
melted white chocolate. Scrape down the bowl.

Add the flour mixture to the butter mixture in thirds, alternating
with the sour cream. Beat for 45 seconds after each addition. Place
the batter in the prepared pan in 3 layers, separating each layer
with white chocolate chunks or chips.

Bake for 55 to 60 minutes. The top will be brown, and a cake tester
inserted in the center will come out with a few crumbs on it. Remove
the cake to a wire rack to cool for 15 minutes, then invert it onto a
wire rack and let cool to room temperature.

Prepare White Chocolate Ganache and drizzle over the cake in a
decorative pattern. Place melted semisweet chocolate in a squeeze
bottle and squeeze it over the white chocolate.

Makes 12 servings.

White Chocolate Ganache: In a ceramic or glass bowl covered with
plastic wrap, heat 8 ounces coarsely chopped white chocolate with l/2
cup heavy cream on High (100 percent power) in a microwave for
30-second intervals, stirring after each interval, until smooth.
Allow to cool for about 10 minutes before using.

Per serving: Calorios 611, Fat 41g, Cholesterol 167mg Sodium 256mg,
Percent calories from fat 59%

"Debbi Fields' Great American Desserts" ** Dallas Morning News -- Food
section  --  11 December 1996 **

Scanned and formatted for you by  The WEE Scot  -- paul macGregor

