Title: WHOLESOME BRISKET WITH ROASTED VEGETABLES
Categories: New, Text, Import
Yield: 1 Servings    4 3/4 lb to 5 lb brisket, trimmed but
not completely
:
1    head garlic, top 1/4-inch
sliced off
:
4 ts olive oil
3 sm onions (about 12 ounces
total),
peeled, root end kept intact
cut in half lengthwise,
ea half cut into 3 wedges
:
:
:
:
1 lb carrots, trimmed, peeled,
and cut into 3- to 4-inch
pieces
:
:
1/2 c  water
2 c  drained and mushed whole
plum tomatoes
plus 1/4 cup reserved
roasting liquid or
one 16-ounce can whole
tomatoes with liqui
:
:
:
:
:
1 sm bay leaf
Kosher salt -- to taste
Freshly ground black pepper
to taste
:
:
:

Place one rack in the center of the oven and another in the bottom.
Heat oven to 500 degrees F.

Place brisket, fat side down, in a 14 x12 x 2-inch roasting pan. It's

best not to use a shallow pan for this, or later the juices might run

over and out. Put the garlic in the pan. Drizzle with 1 teaspoon of
the oil. Using your hands, rub oil onto garlic.

Put the onion wedges and carrots into a smaller, 12 x 8 x 1 1/2-inch
roasting pan. Drizzle with remaining oil. Using your hands, rub oil
over all the pieces until they are well coated. Arrange onion wedges
on their sides, so that they touch carrots as little as possible.

Roast vegetables on center rack of oven for 30 minutes. Turn with a
spatula. Roast 15 minutes more. Roast the brisket simultaneously on
the bottom rack of the oven for 15 minutes. Turn over so fat side is
up. Roast 30 minutes more.

Remove both pans from oven. Lower heat to 275 degrees F, leaving the
door ajar a minute or two to reduce temperature more quickly. Leave
the brisket and garlic in the large pan and add 1/4 cup of the water.
The water should bubble up from the heat of the pan; if it does not,
put pan on the stove over medium-high heat. With a wooden spoon,
scrape around the brisket to scoop up and remove the brown bits from
the bottom of pan.

Put the onions and carrots into the brisket pan. Put the smaller pan
on top of the stove. Add the remaining water and bring contents to a
boil while scraping the bottom vigorously with a wooden spoon. Pour
liquid into brisket pan.

Add roasted plum tomatoes and reserved roasting liquid or, if using
canned tomatoes, stick a small knife into the opened can of tomatoes.
Run it back and forth through the tomatoes and puree until only small
pieces remain. Pour contents over vegetables and around brisket. Put
the bay leaf into the liquid. Cover tightly with foil.

Roast on center rack of oven for 3 1/2 hours. Remove foil, increase
temperature to 500 degrees F, and roast 15 minutes more or until
brisket is nicely browned.

Remove. Sprinkle with salt and pepper. With the back of a spoon,
smush the softened garlic out of each section and into the liquid.
Throw the empty papers away. Transfer brisket to a platter and cover
brisket with a tent of foil. Use slotted spoon to transfer vegetables
to a large serving bowl or plate. Discard the bay leaf. Pour
remaining liquid into a measuring cup. Let sit long enough for the
fat to rise to the surface, about 15 minutes. Skim fat off surface.

To serve, cut brisket against the grain into long thin strips.
Arrange 2 to 3 slices on each plate. Spoon on some of the vegetables,
and moisten everything with a generous amount of the liquid.

Yield: 8 servings

: COOKING LIVE SHOW #CL8746
Recipe By

From: "Angele And Jon Freeman" <jfreemadate: Mon, 28 Oct 1996 10:03:35
~0500

