Title: WHOLE BAKED FISH WITH DILL
Categories: Fish, Harned 1994, Herb/spice, Main dish, Rice/grains
Yield: 4 Servings
3 lb Whole fish
-- preferably fresh
4    Shallots; peeled
-- finely chopped
8 md Mushrooms; sliced
6    Fresh dill sprigs
Salt & white pepper to taste
Lemon juice; to taste
Butter
1 c  Clam juice or fish stock
White wine
1/2 c  Whipping cream
2    To 3 tb. beurre manie
MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
Whole dill sprigs
Dilled lemon slices
Enright writes: "In Canada, fresh whiting is sold most months, while
springtime and summer bring a selection of...salmon, trout, pickerel
and perch.  Fresh or frozen fillets (sole, perch, haddock, turbot)
may be substituted, but be sure to reduce cooking time."

Have the fish "dressed," that is, scaled, eviscerated and fins
removed. To behead or not is up to you.  To bake fish, the rule of
thumb is: 10 minutes per inch thickness of fresh fish (measured at
its thickest point) or for frozen fish, 20 minutes cooking time for
each inch thickness.

Butter an oval baking dish large enough to hold fish. Sprinkle pan
with half the shallots, mushrooms and dill sprigs. Lay fish on top.
Season with salt, pepper and lemon juice. Place remaining shallots,
mushrooms and dill sprigs on top of fish; dot with butter.

Combine clam juice or stock with white wine; pour around fish. Loosely
cover pan with foil and bake at 450 F. until fish flakes when tested
with a fork. Remove fish to heated platter. Debone and keep warm in
low oven. Strain pan juices into a medium, heavy saucepan. Discard
dill but reserve shallots and mushrooms. Add cream and boil over high
heat to reduce sauce by one third.  Whisk in beurre manie a bit at a
time until the sauce is sufficiently thick. Season with salt, pepper
and lemon juice. Add reserved shallots and mushrooms. Pour some sauce
over baked fish and serve remainder separately.

Garnish with whole dill sprigs and dilled lemon slices. (For these,
mince dill and place on cutting board. Gently fold a lemon slice in
half and roll onto the minced dill to form a center band of dill.)

Serve with white rice seasoned with fresh lemon thyme and sauteed baby
carrots or broiled tomato halves.

From _Nancy Enright's Canadian Herb Cookbook_ by Nancy Enright.
Toronto: James Lorimer & Company, 1985.  Pg. 40. ISBN 0-88862-788-2.
Electronic format by Cathy Harned.

