Title: WILD MUSHROOM RISOTTO  (FINE COOKING)
Categories: Italian, Rice
Yield: 2 Servings
3 c  Chicken stock (more if
-needed); * see note
1 oz Dried porcini mushrooms; see
- directions
4 tb Butter
3/4 c  Arborio rice, about 2 cups
2 c  Assorted fresh wild
-mushrooms; clean, trim, coa
2/3 c  Dry white wine
Salt to taste
1/4    Flat-leaf parsley; chopped
2 tb Parmigiano-reggiano; freshly
- grated
Soak dried porcini for 30 minutes in 1 cup warm water.  Drain porcini,
strain soaking liquid, and reserve.  Chop porcini.

Heat the chicken stock along with the reserved strained porcini
soaking liquid; lower the heat to a simmer.  In a medium, heavy gauge
saucepan over medium high heat, melt 2 tablespoons of the butter.
Stir in the rice, toasting just until it starts to sizzle and pop,
about 1 minute.  It should not color.  Stir the porcini and the fresh
mushrooms into the rice. Stir in the wine.  When almost all the
liquid has disappeared, after about 2 minutes, add just enough hot
stock to cover the rice. Lower the heat to maintain a vigorous
simmer; stir occasionally.  When the stock is almost gone, add enough
to cover the rice, along with a pinch of salt.  Check on the risotto
every 3 or 4 minutes, giving it an occasional stir to make sure it
isn't sticking to the bottom of the pan, and adding just enough stock
to cover the rice when the liquid has almost disappeared.  Continue
this way until the rice is just al dente, about 20 minutes total
cooking time. Bite into a grain; you should see a white pin-dot in
the center.  Take the risotto off the heat.  Add the remaining 2
tablespoons butter; stir vigorously for a few seconds.  Add the
parsley, cheese, and more salt if needed.  The risotto should be
moist and creamy, not runny.  Stir in more stock to loosen the
risotto if you like.  Serve immediately.

* Note:  For a very intense mushroom flavor, use mushroom liquor
instead of chicken stock; simmer 2 ounces dried porcini in 5 cups of
water for 5 minutes; let sit 30 minutes off the heat and strain,
reserving the mushrooms.

Contributor:  "Fine Cooking" - 5/98

