Title: WILD MUSHROOM ENCHILADAS
Categories: Maindish
Yield: 6 Servings
5    Ancho chiles (note the
-spelling; in TM!)
1 c  Heavy cream
2    Cloves garlic; minced
2 ts Fresh lime juice
1 tb Unsalted butter
1/2    Yellow onion
6 oz Sliced wild/exotic mushrooms
1/2    Avocado; cut into 1/4-inch
-cubes
3 oz Queso fresco or Feta;
-crumbled
1 tb Chopped cilantro
1    Tomato; blanched, peeled,
-seeded; diced
6    Tortillas de maiz
Salt to taste
Date: 19 Jun 1996 15:04:45 +0900

From: "Scott Ashkenaz" <s_ashken@kla.com> This is the kind of recipe
that makes my Texpuritan instincts cringe up, but it sounds pretty
good.

>From Stephan Pyle (Star Canyon in Dallas), published in the February
'96 Texas Monthly (as a sidebar to a nice article on the spread of
Southwestern ... ahem ... Texas kyoozeen: (Stephan Pyle's _New Texas
Cuisine_, Doubleday)

Preheat oven to 450 degrees F. To prepare ancho paste, wash, dry,
stem, and seed chiles. Place in a single layer on a baking sheet and
roast for 1 minute. Put in a bowl and cover with warm water for 30
min. to rehydrate. Strain (reserve liquid) and puree' in a blender
with enough of the liquid to form a thick paste.

In a skillet, bring 5 tbsp ancho paste, cream, and garlic to a boil
and simmer for 2 min. Transfer to a blender and puree'. Add lime
juice and salt to taste. Strain and set aside.

Heat butter in a large skillet and saute' onion and mushrooms for 2
minutes over medium heat, until onion is translucent and mushrooms
are soft. Add avocado, cheese, cilantro, and tomato, and just heat
through. Add 2 tbsp of reserved ancho cream puree' and stir gently.
Add salt to taste and simmer 3 min.

Heat remaining reserved ancho cream puree' in a skillet until
simmering. Soak tortillas one at a time in puree' for 15 sec. to
soften and use tongs to place on a baking sheet. Spread mushroom
mixture evenly down the middle of tortillas. Roll up tortillas, and
using a metal spatula, place on plates, seam side down. To reheat,
cover baking sheet with foil and place in a 350 degree oven for 10
min. Please note the recent questions answered by this recipe:

1. Rehydrate chiles in WARM water, not hot, cold, or vodka.

2. Warm tortillas in sauce, not oil.

3. Place tortillas seam side down.

CHILE-HEADS DIGEST V3 #018

From Glen Hosey's Recipe Collection Program, hosey@erols.com

