Title: WILLIAM WIGHT'S CHIPOTLE CHILES
Categories: Sides
Yield: 1 Servings
Jalapeno peppers
I made my first batch of chipotles two weekends ago and they tasted
great. My Mexican-American friends at work gave them a positive
thumbs up.

How I did it:

Preparing the smoker:

I borrowed my neighbors Cajun Cooker II water smoker (borrowing is
much better than buying).  His unit has two grills, one near the top
and one just above the water pan. I put 5 lbs of self-lighting
briquettes in the bottom, and set them on fire.  I put 3 qts. of cold
water in the water pan that sits above the charchol pan. I bought a 3
lb. bag of mesquite wood chips and soaked them in water while the
briquettes got going.

Preparing the Meat:

I bought a fresh whole pork loin, cut it in half and rubbed it with a
smoker spice recipe (will post if anyone wants it) did the same with
two fresh turkey legs. I put the meat on the bottom shelf.

Preparing the chiles:

I picked them in my garden the morning of the smoking. About half of
the chiles were red. I washed them and cut off the tops, at the
calyx. I put about 2 lbs of standard Jalapenos and TAM Jalapeno
(50:50) about two peppers thick on the top shelf of the smoker.  I
prepared a second simmialr-sized batch of Jalapas and Fresno chiles
for the second batch.

The Smoking:

When the briquettes got going, I started to put a few mesquite chips
on the charchole.  About every 15 minutes I had to add more mesquite
as the smoke would stop when the mesquite was consumed. I did the
first batch of chiles for 3 1/5 hours and removed them.  I added the
second batch.

At 8 hours (4 1/2 for the second batch of chiles) I took out the
chiles and meat.  The pork loin was just about the best pork I've
ever eaten and my wife said the turkey leg was for sure the best
she'd ever had.

After dinner, I put all the smoked chiles on two foil-lined cookie
tray and put them in the oven set at the lowest setting. I left them
in the oven to dry for about 24 hours. I tested the chiles until they
were crisp and would break when I squeezed one.  I let them cool and
put them into my blender and chopped them to fine flakes/powder.
Beware of the powder, it'll make you cough big time!  I them blended
them all together and was surprised how little I ended up with, about
3/4 qt.

My powdered chipotles have a very rich smokey flavor and are mildly
hot. So far, I have used them on tacos and I tried them sprinkled on
top of cream cheese spread on crackers. Wow, what a taste. I just
hope the bottle of powdered chipotles will last me until next season.

: William Wight
Recipe By

