Title: WINTER VEGETABLE RAGOUT WITH CARMELIZED WHOLE SHALLOTS
Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
Yield: 1 Servings
12 lg Shallots
4    Parsnips (about 1 1/2 pounds
-total weight)
2    Turnips (about one pound
-total)
2    Rutabagas (about 1 pound
-total weight)
2    Carrots (about 1 pound total
-weight)
4    Or 5 large green chard
-leaves
3 tb Butter or alternative
-(spectrum spread)
1 tb Olive oil
2 tb All purpose flour
1/2 ts Salt
1/2 ts Fresh ground black pepper
1 ts Ground tumeric
1/3 c  Dry white wine
2 c  Leek and mushroom broth or
-vegetable broth
1 c  Water
1/4 c  Raisins
1/4 c  Chopped fresh dill
1/4 c  Chopped fresh tarragon
1/4 c  Chopped fresh mint
1/4 c  Chopped fresh chives
1 c  Plain yogurt
Preheat oven to 350. Bring a saucepan full of water to a boil. Add the
shallots and parboil for 5 minutes. Drain, let cool, and then remove
the papery skins. Trim off the tips of the root ends, but do not cut
into the flesh or the shallots may not stay intact during cooking.
Set aside.

Scrub the vegetables, but do not peel them. Cut the thick upper parts
of the parsnips into 1 1/2 inch pieces. Leave the thin root end
intact. Cut each turnip and rutabaga into quarters, then halve the
quarters to make 8 pieces in all. Cut the carrots into 1 1/2 inch
lengths.

Remove the white ribs from the chard (reserve for another use). Cut
the chard greens into chiffonade strips by stacking them, rolling
them up lengthwise into a thin cigar shape, then cutting across into
1/8-inch-wide "threads."

In a large flameproof casserole over medium heat, melt 2 tablespoons
of the buttter (or butter replacement such as spectrum spread) with
the olive oil. When the mixture begins to foam, add the parsnips,
turnips, rutabagas, and carrots. Saute, turning frequently, until
well coated and slightly softened, 5 to 6 minutes.

In a small bowl, stir together the flour, salt, pepper, and tumeric.
Sprinkle the mixture over the vegetables. Cook, turning the vegetables
often, until the flour mixture has begun to brown, 3 or 4 minutes.
Add the wine, stir for a minute or two, and then add the broth,
water, half of the chard, and all of the raisins. Cover, place in the
oven, and bake until the vegetables are tender when pierced with the
tines of a fork, about 45 minutes.

While the vegetables are baking, finish preparing the shallots. Heat
the remaining 1 tablespoon of butter in a skillet over medium heat.
Add the shallots and increase the heat to medium high. Cook the
shallots, stirring and turning constantly, 3 to 4 minutes. The
shallots will begin to brown and carmelize slightly yet still retain
their shape.

To finish the ragout, remove the casserole from the oven and stir in
the cooked shallots and the remaining chard. In a small bowl, stir
together the dill, tarragon, mint, and chives. Spoon the ragout into
shallow bowls or plates and top each portion with several spoonfuls
of yogurt and a generous spoonful of mixed herbs. Serve immediately.

BY Georgeanne Brennan

