Title: YANKEE LAMB STEW
Categories: Meats, Soups
Yield: 6 Servings
3 lb Lamb shoulder
- cut into 2-in cubes
1/2 ts Salt; or to taste
Freshly ground black pepper
- as desired
4 tb Vegetable oil
1 md Onion; quartered
4 md Carrots; peeled
- and cut into 1/2-in rounds
2    Celery stalks
- cut into 4 pieces
1 tb Finely minced garlic
2 tb Tomato paste
1/4 c  All-purpose flour
1 c  Dry white wine
5 c  All-purpose stock
-OR low-sodium chicken broth
1/2 tb Whole black peppercorns
2 tb Chopped fresh thyme leaves
-=OR=-
1 ts -Dried thyme
1 md Potato; peeled
-and cut into 1/2-in cubes
2 tb Unsalted butter
2 md Turnips; peeled
-and cut into 1/2-in cubes
1/2 c  Peas
PREHEAT OVEN TO 325F. Pat the meat dry and sprinkle with salt and
pepper as desired. Heat the oil in a large covered casserole or Dutch
oven over high heat on top of the stove. Add the meat, without
crowding, in batches if necessary, and brown well on all sides.
Remove pieces to a plate as they are done and reserve. Repeat until
all meat is browned. Pour off any remaining fat, and replace the
casserole over medium heat. Add the onion, half the carrots, celery,
garlic and tomato paste. Cook 5 minutes, stirring occasionally. Use
your spoon to loosen and dissolve the brown bits stuck to the bottom
of the casserole. Add flour and cook, stirring, an additional minute.
Add the wine and cook for about a minute to burn off the alcohol.
Replace the meat (and any juices on the plate) in the casserole and
add the stock, peppercorns and thyme. Cover, bring to a boil and
place in the oven for 1 1/4-to-1 1/2 hours, or until meat is tender.
Meanwhile, combine potatoes, remaining carrots and butter with 1/2
cup of water in a medium saucepan over medium heat and cook for 5
minutes. Add the turnips and cook, stirring occasionally, until all
water is evaporated, leaving the vegetables bathed in butter, about
another 5 minutes. Add the peas, remove from the heat and set aside.
Remove the casserole from the oven. Using a slotted spoon, remove the
meat from the sauce and place it in a bowl. Pour the sauce through a
fine strainer into another bowl and discard the vegetables and spices
that remain in the strainer. Replace meat in the pot, add the cooked
vegetables and the sauce. Cover and place over medium heat for 5
minutes. Serve piping hot.

