Title: YELLOW CAKE MIX
Categories: Cakes, Make ahead
Yield: 1 Servings
1 7/8 c  Cake flour
2 1/2 ts Baking powder
1 ts Salt
1 1/4 c  Sugar
1/2 c  Vegetable Shortening
Sift together flour, baking powder, and salt; stir to blend; resift
with sugar.  Cut the shortening into the dry ingredients until the
mixture looks crumbly. Label and store in a sealed plastic bag at
room temperature. Makes 1 pakage mix. Each package makes two 8 or 9
inch layers or one 9 x 13 x 2 inch rectangle. TO USE: Pour 1 package
of mix into a mixing bowl; add 3/4 cup milk and 1 1/4 teaspoons
vanilla extract. Using either an electric or manual rotary beater,
beat at slow to medium speed for two minutes (by hand, beat 3 minutes
averaging 135 strokes per minute). Scrape the sides of the bowl
frequently as you beat. Add 2 eggs; beat 1 minute more (2 minutes by
hand). Grease and dust with flour your choice of pan(s); spread
batter evenly in pans. Bake round cake pans at 375 degrees F. for
about 25 minutes or until a toothpick inserted in the center comes
out clean; bake the 9 x 13 x 2 inch pan for 30 to 35 minutes or until
a toothpick comes out clean. Cool cake(s) for 10 minutes in their
pan(s) before turning out on racks. WHITE CAKE Follow the same
directions as for Yellow Cake replacing the 2 eggs with 3 unbeaten
egg whites. Use an electric mixer for beating. SPICE CAKE Add to the
package of Yellow Cake Mix: 1/4 cup sugar, 1 teaspoon ground
cinnamon, 1/2 teaspoon ground cloves, and a pinch of ground allspice.
Follow Yellow Cake directions. EXTRACT FLOVORED CAKES Replace the
vanilla in either the Yellow or White Cake recipes with 2 to 3
teaspoons of the extract of your choice.  You may want to add a few
drops of food coloring for the flavors like lemon, orange, or cherry,
etc. FRESH ORANGE CAKE Pour 1 package of Yellow Cake Mix into a bowl;
add 2 tablespoons sugar and 1 tablespoon freshly grated orange peel
(1 teaspoon dried). Squeeze the juice from 1 large orange and add to
it enough water to measure 1 cup. Add this orange juice to the mix,
beat for 2 minutes as directed previously; add 2 eggs; beat and bake
as directed. CUPCAKES Pour cake batter into greased cupcake tins or
tins lined with paper baking cups; fill 1/2 to 2/3 full.  Bake at 375
degrees F. for 20 to 25 minutes or until an inserted toothpick comes
out clean. Makes about 2= dozen. NOTE: To prevent a cake from
sticking to its pan, put the pan on a wet towel to cool as soon as
you take it out of the oven.

~ - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

NOTES : Variations can be used to change the flavor of this packaged
cake= mix.

From kmeade@IDS2.IDSONLINE.COM Sun Aug 11 10:09:48 1996 Have you done
a search on the Web? I don't have time to do a search today but if
you do one and aren't sucessful I might have some time next week. Do
you have some interseting recipes that you can share? Here are some
that may interest you. Cannot vouch for where they came from. I
picked them up on the net. Some may be Americanized. I usually eat my
sushi out, I can get it carry out at several good places. These
recipes may not be very good on their own but together they may be
helpful. If there is anyone else on the list that is more knowlegable
than I am please share your knowledge.

Kathy >where can I get questions answered about sashimi. I love sushi,
nigiri >and sashimi! I want to make it at home but feel there must be
certain >protocals to follow in order to ensure safe food. Any idea
where I could >find this info? > > >Thank You. > >LeRoy > Recipe By
: Make Your Own Groceries - Hartwig

