Title: YET MORE SMORREBROD
Categories: Danish, Sandwiches, Ceideburg 2
Yield: 1 Servings
1    Text Only
LIVER PASTE 2: (Leverpostej 2)

Put 2 lb. pig's liver twice through the grinder.  Then put 1 lb. fat
pork twice through the grinder together with an onion but do not mix
the liver with the pork. Mix 1/4 cup butter, 1/4 cup flour and 2 cups
of milk in a pot and let simmer.  Add the ground pork and stir until
the pork fat has melted.  Take the pot off, add the liver and two
whole eggs, 1 tablespoon salt, and 1 teaspoon pepper.

Put in a fireproof dish, place this in a water, and bake in a slow
oven for 1 1/2 hours.

COLD ROAST PORK:  (Flaerskesteg)

Spread thin slices of roast pork on buttered bread and decorate with
crisp pieces of rind, slices of jellied consomme (like consomme but
with enough gelatin added to make it hold shape) cucumber salad or
slices of pickled gherkin and red beets or red cabbage.

BOILED BREAST OF BEEF:  (Kogt Oksebryst)

Spread the bread with butter and put on slices of boiled breast of
beef. Decorate with a small pile of chopped pickles at one end and a
pile of shredded horseradish at the other. For a center decoration
use a slice of tomato, cut halfway through and twisted so it will
stand upright.

SMOKED SALAMI AND BOILED POTATO:  (Spegepolse med kogte Kartofler)

Put slices of salami on bread spread with either butter or spiced
pork fat.

Arrange a row of slices of cold boiled potato along the center of the
salami, and on top of them run a strip of finely cut, fresh chives.

THE HANS ANDERSEN SANDWICH:  (H.  C.  Andersen Sandwich)

Butter a piece of either dark or light rye bread and put two rows of
crisp bacon on top.  Place slice liver paste across one of the rows
and tomato slice across the other. In winter the latter may be
substituted by tomato ketchup.  Top the tomato slices with scraped
horseradish and a strip of jellied consomme.

"THE VETERINARIANS' MIDNIGHT SNACK":  (Dyrlaegens Natmad)

Spread spiced lard on a piece of dark rye bread, and put slices of
liver paste on top.  Pieces of jellied consomme are placed over this,
and on top pieces of slightly salted boiled veal. Decorate with cress.

BLUE CHEESE AND EGG YOLK:  (Roquefort Ost med Aeggeblomme)

Butter a piece of white bread and spread Danish blue cheese (or
gorgonzola) in a ring, making a hollow in the center. When eating the
sandwich, break the yolk and spread it across the cheese.

Thin slices of radish may be used to decorate this and other kinds of
cheese sandwiches.

From "Danish Cookery" by Suzanne, Andr. Fred. Host & Son, Copenhagen,
1957.

Posted by Stephen Ceideberg; March 9 1993.

