Title: YIAYIA'S DOLMADES
Categories: Appetizers, Greek
Yield: 30 Canaps
1 lb Ground beef
1 lg Onion; chopped
1/2 c  Rice, white
1    Egg
1/2 c  Mint, dry
1 tb Butter; softened
1/2 bn Parsley, fresh
Dill
3 tb Lemon juice
Salt
Pepper
;Water, if needed
MMMMM-------------------------AVGOLEMONO------------------------------
1    Egg
3 tb Lemon juice
Cornstarch
This recipe contains meat and is from southern Greece (the
Peloponysos). There is also a Greek Dolmades recipe from Asia Minor
(Constantinople) which was 80% Greek-populated until 1920 when ethnic
cleansing by the Turks began in earnest.  The other Greek Dolmades
recipe is essentially seasoned rice wrapped with grape leaves and
marinated.

Knead all ingredients in a bowl.  If the consistency is too hard, add
water, one tablespoon at a time (up to 4 T.).

Grape leaves are best picked from grape vines in the spring, while
they are still tender.  They can be washed and frozen between layers
of waxed paper and will keep for a year. They are also available in
jars from some fruit markets (especially ones that carry a lot of
Greek/Italian imported foods).

Depending on the size, you will need 20 to 40 grape leaves (Fila -
pronounced FEE-lah).  Small leaves tend to be more tender.

Boil grape leaves until they are soft, but not tender. The time will
depend on the leaves.  Fresh ones will only take a minute.

Fold grape leaves around small spoonfulls of meat mixture, sealing
completely.

In a large pot (preferably one with a large surface area on the
bottom), melt 1/2 stick (4 T.) butter. Arrange rolled dolmades on
top. Do this all at once, not as you roll them. Pour 3-4 cups water
or chicken broth over dolmades, cover, and simmer for 2 hours.

Avgolemono:  Separate egg.  Whisk egg white mixed with 1 tsp. water;
add yolk and mix. Add corn starch (she gave no measurement) to lemon
juice and stir; add to egg mixture. Skim broth off dolmades (it is
now a chicken/beef broth and should be greatly reduced because of the
rice) and add 1 T. at a time to the egg mixture, whisking well. Egg
mixture should thicken.

Remove dolmades from heat.  Arrange dolmades in a bowl for serving.
Mix remaining broth into egg-lemon mixture. Stir well and pour over
dolmades.

Alexis Dalianis Gutzman (100% Greek-100% American)
from the rec.food.recipes archives

