Title: YOGURT PANCAKES
Categories: Breads
Yield: 4 Servings
5 lg Eggs
1 1/4 c  Milk
8 oz Yogurt, plain
-(I use Dannon and
-Knudsen; other brands
-might require different
-amounts)
4 ts Baking powder
1/2 c  Vegetable oil (or less
-for dieters; but use
-at least 2 T)
2 1/3 c  Flour, white (measure
-carefully after sifting)
1 tb Sugar
1/2 ts Salt
Preheat griddle and oil very very lightly.  Separate the eggs; beat
the yolks in a bowl big enough to hold the whole recipe. Add the
yogurt and beat again; add the milk and oil and beat again. Rinse the
eggbeater.

In a separate bowl, mix all the dry ingredients (flour, baking powder,
sugar and salt). Sift together. I use a flour sifter for this, but if
you insist on measuring your flour without sifting it, then you can
try using a wire whip to blend the dry ingredients. Using a clean
eggbeater, beat the egg whites until they are fluffy.

Dump the dry ingredient mixture into the big bowl containing the milk
mixture, stir for about 2 seconds just to get the dry ingredients
under the surface of the liquid, and then dump the beaten egg whites
into the big bowl.

Now beat this mixture lightly and slowly with a fork until it is more
or less uniform. If you beat too much, or too fast, then it will get
gummy. Don't try to get rid of lumps. Cook on the hot griddle.

NOTES:

*  Amazingly good baking-powder and yogurt pancakes -- Cooks like to
show off by making fancy glamorous recipes to serve to their friends
by candle light. Here is a simple ordinary recipe to serve to your
family for breakfast in the morning.

I love pancakes and I make many varieties and I am an inveterate
experimenter. This recipe is the one I have developed over the years
to replace buttermilk pancakes because I never have buttermilk on
hand in the refrigerator like my grandmother did. I made this recipe
this very morning with blueberries in it. I do have yogurt in my
fridge, though, and the yogurt can substitute for the buttermilk.
Yield: Serves 4-6.

*  I like to put fresh blueberries in these pancakes after I pour
them on the griddle. Make sure that your maple syrup is hot and that
your butter is soft. You can heat syrup in the microwave or you can
heat it by sticking the syrup jar in a pan of boiling water.

*  This same recipe also makes really good waffles if you reduce the
milk to about 1 cup, but if you are going to make waffles, you
shouldn't cut back on the oil. If you are dieting, stick to pancakes.

: Difficulty:  easy to moderate.
: Time:  10 minutes plus cooking time.
: Precision:  measure carefully.

: Brian Reid
: DEC Western Research Lab, Palo Alto CA
: reid@decwrl.DEC.COM    -or- {decvax,ucbvax,ihnp4,sun}!decwrl!reid

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

