Title: YU SANG (CHINESE NEW YEAR SALAD)
Categories: Chinese, Salads, Ceideburg 2
Yield: 4 Servings
1/2 lb Fresh sashimi-grade tuna or
-striped bass fillet *
2 c  Peeled, finely shredded
-Chinese white radish
-(daikon)
2 c  Peeled, finely shredded
-carrot
6    Thin quarter-sized slices
-of fresh young ginger,
-finely shredded
1/3 c  Finely shredded sweet
-preserved pickled ginger
-(see note)
1/4 c  Finely shredded pickled
-scallions (see note)
6    Fresh or frozen kaffir lime
-leaves, finely shredded
-(optional)
1 lg Red jalapeno chile, seeded
-and finely shredded
1/2 bn Green onions, finely
-shredded
1/2 bn Cilantro, leaves only
1/4 c  Chopped peanuts
Toasted sesame seeds, for
-garnish
1    Lime or lemon, cut in half
-and seeded
Crisp fried shrimp chips
-or:
Fried rice stick noodles,
-for garnish
MARINADE:
1/2 tb Vegetable oil
1/2 tb Asian sesame oil
1/4 ts Sugar
1/4 ts Salt
1/8 ts White pepper
1/8 ts Five-spice powder
Juice of 1 lemon
* (about 6 x 2 x 1/2-inch piece)

The quality and freshness of the fish is crucial for the success of
the dish.  Purchase the fish from a Japanese fish shop that
specializes in sashimi, or a reliable fishmonger. To facilitate the
very fine shredding of the radish and carrot, use a mandolin or the
fine shredding disc of a food processor.

Chill fish until firm.  Cut into paper-thin, 2-inch-long slices
against the grain; set aside.

In separate bowls, cover radishes and carrots with cold water; set
aside until ready to assemble salad. Then rinse and squeeze out
excess water.

To assemble:  Toss fish slices with marinade ingredients. Place fish
in center of a platter. Arrange daikon and carrot shreds around fish.
Scatter fresh and pickled ginger, the pickled scallions, lime leaves,
chiles, green onions and cilantro over fish. Sprinkle with peanuts
and sesame seeds.

Just before serving, squeeze the lime or lemon juice over all. It is
customary for everyone to join in and toss the salad. Using
chopsticks, each diner digs from the bottom of the salad and lifts
the ingredients to mix together.

When the salad is fully tossed, taste for seasoning. Adjust with more
sesame oil, lime juice, salt and/or some of the juices from the
pickled vegetables.

Garnish with shrimp chips or fried rice stick noodles.

Serves 4 to 6.

NOTE:  Bottled pickled ginger and pickled scallions may be found in
Chinese markets.  Kaffir lime leaves may be found in Thai grocery
stores. If kaffir leaves are not available, omit or substitute
domestic lime leaves.

PER SERVING:  195 calories, 13 g protein, 15 g carbohydrate, 11g g
fat (9 g saturated), 17 mg cholesterol, 205 mg sodium, 3 g fiber.

San Francisco Chronicle, 2/3/93.

Posted by Stephen Ceideberg; February 5 1993.

