Title: ZESTY ROSEMARY-RYE STICKS
Categories: Crackers
Yield: 12 Servings
1 pk (2-1/4 teaspoons) active
Dry yeast
2 tb Molasses
1/4 c  Warm water
1 ts Orange zest (approx. 1/2
Medium orange)
1 ts Lemon zest (approx. 1/2
Medium lemon)
1 1/2 c  Rye flour
1 3/4 c  All-purpose flour
1 ts Salt
1/8 ts Baking soda
1 tb Dried rosemary, OR
3 tb Fresh rosemary, finely
Chopped
2 tb Vegetable oil
1    Egg
1/2 c  Orange juice, fresh or
Reconstituted
Cornmeal to sprinkle on the
Baking sheeet
1    Egg, lightly beaten with 1
Tablespoon water
1/8 ts Salt, for glazing the tops
Coarse salt for the tops
"The citrus zest undertone of these versatile bread sticks marries
well with the rosemary and molasses to produce an intriguing addition
to a picnic basket or a formal dinner. 325~F. 30 to 35 minutes
Preheat the oven to 325~F.

In a small bowl, combine the yeast with the molasses and warm water.
Set aside in a warm place until the yeast starts to foam, about 5 to
10 minutes. Prepare the zest by lightly grating the outer peel of the
orange and lemon against the fine grate of a cheese grater. Use only
the colored part of the rind; the underlying white portion is bitter.

In a large bowl or in the food processor, combine the flours, salt,
and baking soda. Stir in the orange zest, lemon zest, and rosemary
and mix well. Add the oil, egg, and orange juice and mix well. Add
the yeast mixture and mix until well blended.

Knead well by hand for about 5 minutes on a lightly floured surface
until the dough is smooth and springy to the touch. Place the dough
in a large, lightly oiled bowl and turn over to coat all sides. Cover
with a damp towel and set in a warm place until the dough has doubled
in bulk, about 1-1/2 to 2 hours.

Punch the dough down and turn out onto a lightly floured surface or
pastry cloth. With a sharp knife, divide the dough into 12 small
pieces. With your hands, roll each piece into a stick approximately
12 inches long. You will have a more even-looking stick if you place
the dough on a firm surface and roll your hands across the top,
moving from the center outward.

Place the sticks 1 inch apart on a baking sheet that has been lightly
sprinkled with cornmeal. Cover the sheet with a towel and let the
sticks rise slightly in a warm place for 10 to 15 minutes.

Brush the tops of the sticks with the lightly beaten egg mixture and
sprinkle with coarse salt. If desired, sprinkle with chopped rosemary
for additional flavor. Bake for 30 to 35 minutes, or until well
browned.

Cool on a rack. Yield: 12.

