Title: ZUCCHINI-AND-BASIL FILO
Categories: Vegetables, Appetizers, Main dish
Yield: 6 Servings
1/2 pk Frozen filo pastry
6 md Zucchini
1/2 ts Salt
3/4 c  Pine nuts
2 tb Virgin olive oil
1 sm Red onion
- diced into 1/4-inch pieces
Pepper
2    Garlic clove; minced
1/2 c  Chopped basil
- (loosely packed)
3 tb Parsley, minced
1/4 c  White wine or water
2    Eggs
2/3 c  Parmesan, grated
3 oz Feta cheese, crumbled
8 tb Unsalted butter; melted
- (or a mixture of
- butter and olive oil)
PREHEAT OVEN TO 350F. Remove filo pastry from freezer and let it come
to room temperature while you prepare the filling. Unfold the dough,
and cut the stack of sheets in two. If you are making just one
recipe, refold half the dough, and wrap it in plastic. It can either
be refrozen or kept for a few days in the refrigerator. Cover the
sheets to be used with a sheet of waxed paper covered in turn with a
damp kitchen towel, to keep them from becoming dry and brittle. Grate
the zucchini on the large holes of a hand grater or in a food
processor. Toss with the salt and set aside for 30 minutes. Then
drain and squeeze dry in a clean kitchen towel. Roast the pine nuts
for 5-to-8 minutes in oven, chop them finely, and set them aside.
Heat the olive oil in a large skillet and saute the onion until it
begins to soften, about 2 minutes. Add the zucchini, season with
freshly ground black pepper, and cook another 4 minutes; then add the
garlic, basil, parsley and white wine or water. Cover for 3 to 4
minutes, and remove from heat. Beat the eggs, stir in the cheeses,
then cook the vegetables. Check the seasoning. Brush a
9-by-13-by-2-inch pan with the melted butter and lay a sheet of filo
pastry with butter, or mixture of butter and olive oil, and continue
buttering and layering, until you have used half the sheets. Scatter
half of the chopped pine nuts between several of the layers. Brush
the top layer with butter and spread the filling over it. Continue
layering the rest of the pastry sheets. If the butter begins to
congeal, reheat it so it spreads easily. Cut the assembled pastry
into 3-inch squares, then into diamonds, making sure you cut through
all the layers; refrigerate the pastry if you will not be baking
right away. Bake in a preheated 400F oven for 40 to 50 minutes, or
until browned. Serve the pastries warm from the oven, slightly
cooled, or at room temperature. Makes one 9-by-13-inch filo pastry.

