Title: ZWETSCHGENDATSCHI
Categories: Desserts, Bavarian
Yield: 1 Batch
1/4 lb Butter
1/3 c  Sugar
1/2 ts Vanilla (or use
-vanilla sugar)
1    Egg
1 tb Sour cream
1 pn Salt (only if you
-use unsalted butter)
1 ts Lemon peel
1 3/4 c  Flour
1 ts Baking powder
2 c  Italian plums
MMMMM-----------------OPTIONAL STREUSEL TOPPING----------------------
6 tb Butter
3/4 c  Flour
1/3 c  Sugar
1/2 ts Cinnamon
In a large bowl, cream the butter, add the sugar (and vanilla), add
the egg, (salt,) lemon peel and sour cream. Mix the flour and baking
powder and add that.

Pit the plums, splitting them into halves or thirds. Grease the pan
and spread the dough.  Liberally spread plums over the dough, meat
side up. If the plums are sour (as opposed to just tart), sprinkle
them lightly with sugar.

To make the optional Streusel topping, cream the butter, add flour,
sugar and cinnamon. Sprinkle over the plums. Bake for 30-45 minutes
in the middle rack at 375 degrees F. Be careful not to let the bottom
burn!

Serve liberally topped with freshly-made whipping cream.

NOTES:

*  A Bavarian plum delicacy for dessert -- My mother and grandmother
make this Bavarian specialty without a recipe; this recipe is from my
mother, after I pressed her to write it down so I could make my own.
It also includes variations from a few other folks that you might
like to try. Roughly translated from Bavarian to German, this is
Pflaumenkuchen, which, roughly translated from German to to English
is Plum cake. However, Zwetschgen aren't ordinary plums, a Datschi
isn't really a Kuchen, and a Kuchen is most definitely NOT a cake!

This dessert is made of the slightly tart Italian plums, which are
unfortunately only available at certain times of the year. Don't try
to make it with ordinary plums; they're too sweet and too juicy.
Yield: Fills one round cake pan.

*  A Datschi may actually be made with any fruit; I happen to love it
with Zwetschgen the best.

*  I don't know this with Streusel on top, and never prepare it that
way, but several of my acquaintances swear by it. Made with other
fruit, I would be more likely to accept the Streusel.

*  If you like, you may sprinkle rum or cinnamon over the fruit before
baking. Also, you might try substituting rum for the sour cream in the
dough, or just adding both.

*  If you want to make a cookie-sheet-sized Datschi, simply double the
recipe.

: Difficulty:  moderate.
: Time:  20 minutes preparation, 20 minutes baking.
: Precision:  approximate measurement OK.

: Chris Kent
: DEC Western Research Lab, Palo Alto, California

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
: kent@decwrl.DEC.COM
{ihnp4,ucbvax,decvax}!decwrl!kent

