Title: Cheese and Prune Filling
Categories: Ethnic, Cakes, Breads
Yield: 6 servings
1    Egg yolk
1 ts Melted butter
1 tb Sour cream
1/2 ts Grated lemon rind
1/2 ts Vanilla
2 tb Yellow raisins
1 tb Cognac
1 c  Cream cheese or cottage
-cheese or 1/2 cup of each
1/4 c  Sugar
1 tb Flour
Cheese filling

Mix raisins with cognac.  Cream together cheese, sugar, and flour. Stir in
egg yolk, then melted butter, sour cream, lemon rind, and vanilla. Add
cognac-soaked raisins.

Prune Filling

1 cup cooked prunes, pitted 1/2 Tbsp. lemon rind 1/8 tsp. nutmeg 3 bsp.
melted butter 1 tsp. grated orange rind 1/2 cup coarsely crushed walnuts 2
Tbsp. sugar

Grind prunes or chop them fine.  Stir in all remaining ingredients.

Poppy Seed Filling

1/2 pound poppy seeds 1/2 cup butter 1/2 cup honey 2 Tbsp. heavy cream 1
cup coarsely crushed walnuts 1/2 cup raisins 1 tsp. grated orange peel

Pour enough boiling water over poppy seeds to cover.  Let stand overnight.
The following morning drain well.  Grind poppy seeds 3 times using the
finest blade of the meat grinder.  It is possible to have the seeds ground
in the store where you buy them, but they will be cleaner and taste better
if you soak and grind them yourself.

Cream butter and honey together.  Add cream.  Stir in ground poppy seeds,
nuts, raisins, and grated orange peel

Ground Nut Filling:

1 1/2 cups almonds or any other nuts except peanuts or cashews 3 eggs 1/2
cup sugar 1/2 cup melted butter 1 tsp. grated orange rind 1/2 cup white
sultana raisins 1 tsp. vanilla

Grate nuts finely.  Beat eggs and sugar for 5 minutes.  Stir in grated
nuts, melted butter, orange rind, raisins and vanilla.

Note:  Cake or cookie crumbs can be substituted for part of grated nuts.

Orange Filing

2/3 cup soft butter 2/3 cup orange marmalade 2/3 cup coarsely crushed
walnuts or pecans

Cream butter, marmalade and nuts together.

Raw Apple Filling

3 tart apples 1/2 tsp. grated lemon rind 1/2 tsp. vanilla 3 Tbsp. cinnamon
sugar 1/4 cup currants 1 tsp. lemon juice

Peel apples.  Grate them on a coarse grater so that the apple pulp is in
shreds.  Discard cores.

Add all remaining ingredients.  Use as soon as possible to prevent apples
from darkening.

From: The Art of Fine Baking Shared By: Pat Stockett

