Title: Eggplant-Filled Ravioli with Tomato Cream Sauce
Categories: Pasta, Italian, Vegetarian, Sauces
Yield: 6 servings
1/2 ts Salt
3 tb Water; (about)
Sauce:
1/2 c  Madeira
1/4 c  White wine; dry
3 tb Shallots; minced
2 c  Whipping cream
1/4 ts Lemon peel; grated
1 c  Tomatoes; Italian plum, peel
-ed, seeded and chopped
Or drained chopped canned it
-alian plum tomatoes
Minced fresh basil
Filling:
1 md Eggplant
Salt
2 tb Olive oil
1 sm Onion; chopped
2 c  Garlic; minced
2 tb White wine; dry
2 tb Parsley; fresh, minced
1 tb Basil; fresh, minced or 1 t
-sp. dried, crumbled
Freshly ground pepper
Pasta:
3 c  Flour; all-purpose
3    Eggs
Peel eggplant and slice 1/2-inch thick.  Salt generously
FOR FILLING:
on both sides.  Drain on paper towels 45 minutes.  Pat dry with paper
Heat oil in heavy large
towels. Cut eggplant into 1/2-inch cubes.
skillet over medium heat.  Add onion and garlic and saute until soft, about
5 minutes.  Add eggplant and saute until beginning to turn golden brown,
about 15 minutes.  Stir in wine, parsley and basil, scraping up browned
bits.  Cover and cook until eggplant is tender, about 3 minutes. Season
with salt and pepper. Transfer to processor or blender and puree until
smooth. Cool completely. FOR PASTA: Combine flour, eggs and salt in
processor and mix well.
With machine running, add just enough water through feed tube to form
ball.  Remove from processor.  Cover dough and let rest for 30 minutes.
Cut dough into 4 pieces.
(Pasta dough can also be made by hand.)
Flatten 1 piece (keep remainder covered), then fold in thirds. Turn pasta
machine to widest setting and run dough through several times until smooth
and velvety, folding before each run and dusting with flour if sticky.
Adjust machine to next narrower setting. Run dough through machine without
folding. Repeat, narrowing rollers after each run, until pasta is 1/16 to
1/8-inch thick, dusting with flour as necessary. Line baking sheets with
towels.  Set sheet of dough on work surface. Place about 1-1/2 teaspoons
filling at 2-inch intervals along sheet. Roll second piece of dough. Set
atop first sheet. Press down around filling to force out air and seal
dough.  Cut into 2-inch squares.  Arrange on prepared sheets.  Repeat with
remaining dough and filling.  Cover with towel. FOR SAUCE: Combine Madeira,
wine and shallots in heavy small saucepan. Boil until reduced to 1/4 cup,
about 4 minutes.  Add cream and peel and boil 5 minutes, stirring
occasionally.  Stir in tomatoes.
Season with salt and pepper.
Cook ravioli in large pot of boiling water until just tender but still
firm to bite, about 4 minutes for fresh.  Remove with slotted spoon; drain.
Divide among plates.  Spoon sauce over.  Garnish with basil. Serve
immediately. Serves 6. DO AHEAD HINTS: * Ravioli can be prepared one day
ahead and refrigerated or one month ahead, wrapped tightly and frozen. Do
not thaw before cooking. * Sauce can be prepared one day ahead;
refrigerate. EVEN EASIER: * Purchase sheets of fresh pasta for the ravioli
or buy prepared ravioli to serve with the tomato cream sauce here. Recipe
from Bon Appetit, September, 1987.

