Title: Haggis (Mock)
Categories: Ethnic, Beef
Yield: 1 servings
1 pn -Pepper
1 pn Nutmeg;grated
1/3 c  -Water; 50 ml approx.
-in which liver had been
-boiled
1 pn Cayenne pepper
1/2 lb Liver ; 225 grams
1/2 lb Beef, minced; 225 grams
2 md Onions
6 oz Oatmeal, medium; 175 grams
6 oz Suet; shredded; 175 grams
1 ts -Salt
"Haggis, "The great Chieftain of the pudding' race", as Robert Burns,
described it, is indeed a toothsome morsel and it is a great pity that many
English people look upon it as more a Scottish joke than a good Scottish
dish. However since Haggis is made from the stomach, lungs and other
internals of a sheep it is a rather gruesome sight during certain stages of
its cooking, as anyone who has witnessed the process will agree. The lung
must be first be heating in a pan of hot water with the trachea hanging
over the side to allow any blood and froth to escape and the stomach bag
must be cleaned and scraped very thoroughly before it is used. I must say
from experience that it takes needs a fairly robust stomach to first
prepare and then eat it. If you can buy prepared haggis I do strongly
recommend you to try it. All you need to do is slice it and fry it in a
lightly greased frying pan. If you cannot buy ready-made haggis, then the
following is tasty substitute.."

Boil the liver for five minutes. Drain and put aside to cool. Toast the
oatmeal in a dry frying pan or in the oven until it begins to turn a pale
brown. Peel and mince the onions and the liver. Mix all the ingredients
with the seasoning and stir in some of the water in which the liver has
been boiled. The mixture should be thoroughly moist but not wet. Have ready
a greased basin large enough to give the mixture room to swell. Cover with
greaseproof paper and a cloth and boil or steam for three hours. The
traditional way to serve haggis is with mashed potatoes and turnips -
"tatties and neeps", as they are called in Scotland - and to give the meal
a truly Scottish flavour you should serve a glass of whiskey along with it.
I like to let the mock haggis go cold and then slice it and heat it through
in a frying pan (without fat) until golden brown on both sides. This way it
is very good with poached eggs and even with chips.

Note: if your mince looks to be on the fatty side, then cut down the
quantity of suet to 4 oz (100grams).

SOURCE:_ Lillian Beckwith's Herbidean Cookbook_ by Lillian Beckwith,
Lillian Beckwith an English writer, lived in the Hebrides as a crofter for
20 years. boile

