Title: Lamb and Sausage Couscous
Categories: Moroccan, Lamb, Sausages
Yield: 8 servings
3 tb All-purpose flour
1 c  Dry white wine
6 c  Low-sodium chicken broth
-=OR=- Water
1 ts Cayenne pepper
1 tb Ground cumin
6    Spicy sausages
- preferably merguez-style
2 md Zucchini
- cut into rounds 1-in thick
1 1/2 c  Couscous
3 lb Lamb shoulder
- cut into 2-in cubes
1/2 ts Salt; or to taste
Freshly ground black pepper
1 tb Olive oil
1 md Onion; quartered
4 md Carrots; peeled
-and cut into 1/2-in rounds
2    Celery stalks
- cut into 4 pieces
1/4 c  Tomato paste
PREHEAT OVEN TO 325F. Pat the meat dry and sprinkle with salt and pepper as
desired. Heat the oil in a large covered casserole or Dutch oven over high
heat on top of the stove. Add the meat, without crowding, in batches if
necessary, and brown well on all sides. Remove pieces to a plate as they
are done and reserve. Repeat until all meat is browned. Do not pour off
fat. Replace the casserole over medium heat. Add the onion, carrots, celery
and tomato paste. Cook, stirring occasionally, 5 minutes. Use your spoon to
loosen and dissolve the brown bits stuck to the bottom of the casserole.
Add flour and cook, stirring, an additional minute. Add wine, meat (and any
juices on the plate), stock, cayenne and cumin. Cover, bring to a boil and
place in the oven for 1 1/4 hours, or until meat is tender. Meanwhile,
combine sausage and zucchini in an ovenproof dish, cover and place in the
oven until sausages are cooked, about 20 minutes. Follow directions on the
back of the box and cook the couscous. Remove stewed lamb and the sausage/
vegetable mixture from the oven. Using a slotted spoon, remove the meat
from the sauce and place it in a serving bowl. Pour off and discard any
excess fat from the sausages and add sausages and vegetables to the lamb.
Pour the thin gravy through a fine strainer into the serving bowl and
discard the vegetables and spices that remain in the strainer. To serve,
place the couscous in another serving dish. Pour the broth into a pitcher
or soup tureen. Encourage guests to place couscous in their soup bowl, top
with the meat and vegetables and moisten with soup.

MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK

