Title: Pork Braised with Celery Avgolemono
Categories: Greek, Meats, Pork/ham
Yield: 4 servings
1    Bunch celery
2 tb Flour
2    Egg yolks
1 1/2    Lemons (juice only)
Parsley or celery leaves
Karen Mintzias
3 lb Lean shoulder or leg of pork
4 tb Butter or margarine
1    Onion; finely chopped
Salt & freshly ground pepper
3 c  Hot water (approximately)
Wipe the pork with damp paper towels, then cut into 1-1/2 inch cubes (the
fat and skin may be left on during the cooking and removed later).  Melt 2
tablespoons of the butter in a heavy pan or Dutch oven.  Add the onion and
cook until soft and transparent, then add the pork and cook, stirring, over
medium heat until the raw meat color disappears.  Season with salt and
pepper, add hot water to cover, then cover and simmer gently (or bake in a
325 F oven) for 30 to 35 minutes, or until almost tender.  (The timing is
important because the celery is to be added and cooked with the pork only
until both are tender but not overcooked.)

Meanwhile, prepare the celery.  Wash the stalks and scrape the heavy ones
slightly.  Cut each stalk once lengthwise (if large) and then across into
1-1/2 inch slices.  (Use the leaves as well, if desired, but a few might be
saved for a garnish or an accompanying salad.)  Add the celery to pork and
continue simmering 25 minutes until both are tender.  Using a slotted
spoon, remove the pork and celery and place in a serving dish, first
removing and discarding the fat from the meat.  Keep warm.  Skim the fat
from the cooking liquid, then add water or boil down rapidly to make to
make 1-1/2 cups.  Keep hot while you prepare the avgolemono.

To prepare the avgolemono, heat the remaining 2 tablespoons butter in a
pan.  Stir in the flour, and after cooking over low heat for 1 minute,
gradually add 2 cups of the hot cooking liquid from the meat.  Stir until
the sauce comes to a boil.  Meanwhile, in a small bowl, beat the two
remaining egg yolks and add the lemon juice, droplet by droplet, beating
all the while.  Beat a little of the thickened cooking liquid into the yolk
mixture, then add the yolks to the pan of hot liquid.  Mix well and cook
over low heat until thickened.  Pour the hot sauce over the pork and
celery, garnish with parsley or celery leaves and serve warm.

Note: Celeriac may be substituted for the celery.  Use 2-1/2 pounds of
celeriac, and peel, quarter, and cut it into 1/2 inch slices before adding
it to the pork.  A little scraped, diced carrot may be added with the
celery.

From: "The Food of Greece" by Vilma Liacouras Chantiles.  Avenel Books, New
York.

Typed for you by Karen Mintzias

