Title: Adding Flavor Without the Fat - Chiles
Categories: Information, Chilies
Yield: 1 info
MMMMM-----------------------NO INGREDIENTS----------------------------
The most intense heat of the fresh chile pepper is in its seeds and
in the white ribs running vertically inside the chile. Unless you
like very potent heat, remove the seeds and cut away the white ribs
before using fresh chiles. In dried chiles, the intensity of the
seeds is even more pronounced.

Chiles, either minced fresh, crushed dried, or powdered, make great
marinade ingredients, especially with other ingredients such as citrus
juice, cilantro, ginger, garlic, etc. Moderation is the key,
especially when using very-hot chiles. Seafood doesn't need to
marinate for long anyway, and when it comes to chile-laced marinades,
5-10 minutes should be plenty.

Don't confuse chili powder with powdered chiles. Chili powder is a
seasoning mixed that is used to make chili  generally it includes
dried chiles, oregano, cumin and garlic. Powdered chile is dried
chile peppers crushed into a fine powder, often specific to a
particular variety, but sometimes simply labeled as "mild", "medium",
etc. chile powder.

Roasting chiles not only tempers the heat slightly, it brings out a
touch of sweetness and adds a smoky flavor. Roasting also makes it
easy to peel away the skin, which can have a bitter aftertaste.

You can roast a chile under the broiler or on a charcoal grill. Set
the pepper a few inches from the heat until the skin is blistered and
black, turning the chile occasionally so that it roasts evenly. You
can also roast a chile over a gas flame, holding it in a pair of
long-handled tongs or stuck on a long fork.

Place the roasted chile in a paper or plastic bag, close the top and
let it sit for about 10 minutes. The chile will sweat in the bag,
making it much easier to peel away the skin. When cool enough to
handle, peel away the skin, cut out the core, and remove the white
ribs and seeds.

Simply Seafood Spring 1995
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   06-18-95

