Title: All About Onions - part 2
Categories: Information, Vegetables
Yield: 1 info
MMMMM-----------------------NO INGREDIENTS----------------------------
~ Sweets (**) are most often sold under a regional name, such as
Vidalia (Georgia), Maui (Hawaii), Walla Walla (Washington), Nu-Mex
(New Mexico), and Texas 1015 (so called because they are planted on
October 15). Through the spring and summer there is a parade of
sweets. A second blast of Vidalias comes around Thanksgiving as
growers ship onions that have been held in low-oxygen storage since
spring.

~ Scallions (*), sometimes called green onions, are onions harvested
while young and slender and marketed with the green tops still
intact. They are generally considered a subcategory of fresh onions.
When the bulb is plump, they are usually called knobby or creaming
onions. Neither of these types, which are sold by the bunch, stores
well; they ought to be used within three days of purchase. Both
mild-flavored scallions and the somewhat hotter creaming onions are
good raw and cooked. The green tops of the scallions can be eaten as
well as the white bulbs.

Onions should feel firm when pressed and should not be covered with a
powdery gray mold. Storage onions will keep for many months in a cool,
dark, dry place with good air circulation. Fresh onions will keep
from one to three months wrapped separately in foil and refrigerated,
or they can be knotted in stockings and hung in a cool, dry place.

When cutting onions, use a stainless steel knife since a carbon steel
blade will sometimes discolor the onions. There is a greater
concentration of the irritating sulfur compound in the root, so
always cut from top (the neck) to bottom in order to leave the root
end intact for as long as possible. To peel pearl and boiling onions,
blanch them in a pot of boiling water for one minute, then drain and
plunge them into ice water. Using a sharp knife, cut off both the
root and stem ends and remove the skin. Only chop onions in a food
processor when you are using them in a soup or a very runny sauce
because this will bruise the pieces and cause them to disintegrate
when cooked.

by Linda and Fred Griffith Food and Wine June 1995
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   06-18-95

