Title: Beer-Basted Barbecued Brisket`
Categories: Bbq/grill, Meats
Yield: 8 servings
1    (9-Lb) Beef Brisket,
-Whole and Untrimmed
Cookie's Dry Rub -- (see
Recipe in Smoked and Rubbed
Prime Rib Roast)
MMMMM---------------------BEER MOPPIN' SAUCE--------------------------
1/4 c  Vegetable Oil
1 md Onion -- finely chopped
2    Cloves Garlic -- minced
1    Bottle
1/3 c  Honey
1/3 c  Cider Vinegar
2 tb Worcestershire Sauce
2 tb Prepared Brown Mustard
Beer (12 Oz)
4 c  Mesquite Chips *
Cowboy Barbecue Sauce --
(see recipe)
Salt -- to taste
* Soak chips for at least 30 mins in water and drain.

1. Cut the brisket in half crosswise. Rub all over with the dry rub.
Wrap in plastic wrap and refrigerate for at least 1 hr or overnight.
If chilled, let the brisket come to room temperature before smoking.
2. Make the beer moppin' sauce: In a medium saucepan, heat the oil
over medium heat. Add the onion and garlic and cook until the onion
is softened, about 4 mins. Stir in the beer, honey, vinegar,
Worcestershire sauce, and mustard. Bring to a simmer, reduce the heat
to low, and simmer for 10 mins. 3. Build a medium fire (using about
20 briquets) on the bottom of one side of a charcoal grill. Place a
large disposable aluminum foil pan on the other side. Fill the pan
with 1 inch of water. 4. Place the brisket over the pan and
immediately cover the grill. Sprinkle a handful of mesquite chips
over the coals. Smoke the brisket until very tender, about 6 to 7
hrs. About every 40 mins, baste well with the beer sauce, and add
more hot coals and chips to maintain a temperature of 190 to 220 F.
(Some grills have thermostats on their lids. You may also place an
oven thermometer next to the brisket to get a reading.) 5. Let the
brisket stand 10 mins, then carve the beef thinly across the grain.
Serve with the barbecue sauce passed on the side. Allow guests to
salt their own portions. (Many barbecue experts feel that salting
brisket before smoking releases too many juices.)

NOTE: Brisket can be smoked in a gas grill, but be sure the grate is
large enough to hold both brisket halves. With smaller grills, you
will have to smoke one brisket half at a time. Place a disposable
aluminum foil pan on one side of the grill and fill the pan with 1
inch of water. Turn on the opposite side of the grill and heat to
low. (Do not ignite the side if the grill with the pan.) Wrap
handfuls of the soaked and drained mesquite chips in heavy-duty
aluminum foil and pierce the foil all over. Place the brisket over
the pan and place a foil packet directly onto the heating unit or
lava rocks. Smoke the brisket until very tender, about 7 hrs. Every
40 mins, baste well with the beer sauce and replace the foil packet
with a fresh one to maintain a smoky interior.

Makes 8 to 10 servings from National Cowboy Hall of Fame of Oklahoma
City, OK.

: National Cowboy Hall of Fame Chuck Wagon Cookbook
Recipe By

Date: 06-09-95 (85) Cooking
From: Dan Klepach

