Title: Bindaetuk
Categories: Breads, Korean
Yield: 8 pancakes
2 tb Glutinous rice
1 c  Whole mung beans
1 c  Mung-bean sprouts
2    Scallions; thinly sliced
1/3 c  Green pepper, chopped
1/3 c  Finely chopped onion
1/4 ts Baking soda
2 ts Sesame oil
1 tb Sesame seeds
-- toasted & lightly crushed
2 ts Japanese soy sauce
1 ts Salt
3/4 c  Vegetable oil (about)
MMMMM-----------------------DIPPING SAUCE----------------------------
4 tb Japanese soy sauce
2 1/2 tb Rice vinegar
1 ts Sugar
1 tb Minced scallion
1    Garlic clove
-- peeled and mashed
Wash and drain rice.  Pick over mung beans; wash and drain.  Place
rice and beans in a bowl and cover wtih 5 cups of water.  Let soak
for 10 hours.

Remove skins from beans by rubbing between your hands.  Drain off
floating skins now and then, replacing water with fresh water, until
most all of the skins are removed and drained away.  Drain off
remaining water and blend rice and beans in a food processor until it
becomes a thick paste. With machine running, gradually add 3/4 cup
water to mixture; blend in thoroughly.

Blanch bean sprouts in boiling water for 2 minutes; drain.  Squeeze
out as much moisture as possible, then stir sprouts into the batter
along with the scallions, green pepper, onion, baking soda, sesame
oil, sesame seeds, soy sauce and salt.  Mix well.

Have all cooking paraphernalia ready and at hand.  You will need to
have near your skillet: 1/4 to 1/2 cup of vegetable oil in a cup or
bowl with a small spoon, a larger spoon to spread the batter, the
bowl of batter with a 1/3-cup measuring scoop/cup, a metal spatula
for turning the pancakes, and a plate on which to place the finished
dosas after they are cooked.

Pour 1 teaspoon of oil into the skillet and tilt to distribute
evenly. Heat the skillet over medium-low until oil is hot. Pour 1/3
cup of the mixture onto the center of the hot skillet.  Use the large
spoon to spread the batter in a spiral motion, until the pancake is
about 6-7 inches in diameter.  Turn pancake after 2-3 minutes and
cook another 2-3 minutes on the other side. Remove pancake to plate
and repeat with remaining batter, adding only enough additional oil
to the skillet as needed to keep surface evenly greased.  I found
that about 1/2 to 3/4 teaspoon for each pancake was plenty, but your
mileage may vary.

Dipping Sauce: Mix together all ingredients and serve with hot
Bindaetuk.

Adapted by Karen Mintzias, from a recipe in: Madhur Jaffrey's
"World-of-the-East Vegetarian Cooking"
Submitted By KAREN MINTZIAS   On   05-21-95

