Title: Boerenkool (Dutch kale)
Categories: Main dish, West europe, Vegetables
Yield: 2 servings
1 3/4 lb Floury potatoes
1 3/4 lb Fresh kale leaves; or
1 lb Frozen kale
1/2 oz Butter
Salt
Pepper
BASIC RECIPE: Peel and quarter the potatoes. If you're using fresh
kale, wash and chop the leaves. Put ca. 3 cm of water in a large
cooking pot (the amount of water you need depends on the size of the
pot. Also, use more water when using frozen kale). Add the potatoes
and 1/2 ts of salt. Then put the kale on top of the potatoes. Put the
accompanying meat on top of the kale (see below). Bring the water to
the boil on high heat, then lower the heat, close the pot and
continue to cook for about 25 minutes or until the potatoes are done.
Remove the meat from the pot and keep it warm. Drain the cooking
liquid into a bowl. Mash the potato and kale mixture. Stir in the
butter and, if needed, moisten the dish with some cooking liquid or
warm milk. Season to taste with salt and pepper.

ACCOMPANIMENTS: This dish is usually served with very salty tasting
meat accompaniments. Most Dutch people use "rookworst", originally a
smoked pork sausage that has to be cooked on top of the kale.
Nowadays it's a factory product made mainly from offal (I think)
which is ground extremely fine and nauseatingly salty, so you can't
taste what animal it was before it got into the grinder (probably
everything that didn't run fast enough). It is popular for two
reasons: many people don't know rookworst any other way and it is
very, very cheap (about 1 Dfl.). I only use traditionally made
rookworst from a small butcher's shop, which costs five times as
much. Since you obviously will have some difficulty trying to find
the real thing, I reckon any smoked pork sausage will do. Another
widely used accompaniment is crisply fried cubed smoked bacon.
Vegetarians don't use meat and stir some cubed cheese into the dish
instead.

Personal preference: Although garlic is forbidden in Dutch cooking, I
like to use a garlic sausage and smoked bacon, both cooked on top op
the kale. Submitted By HEIKO EBELING   On   06-26-95

