Title: Bubbly Pies
Categories: Pie/tart, Desserts
Yield: 6 servings
1/2 c  Butter Or Margarine
2 tb Granulated Sweetening
-(Sugar)
2 1/2 c  Unbleached All Purpose Flour
1/2 ts Salt
1/2 c  Ice Water
Yield: 6 Tarts Or 12 Turnovers

CRUST:

Cut the butter into chunks.  Combine the dry ingredients in a bowl.
Work the butter gently into the dry mixture with a fork until pieces
the sixe of peas form.  Sprinkle the ice water ove and ork it in
being careful not to overwork the dough.  Form the dough into a ball.

FILLING:

Cup
5
Package Frozen) 1 Cup Granulated Sweetening 1/4 Tsp
Powdered Klah Bark (Cinnamon) 2 Tsp Citrus Juice 1 To 2 Tbls Butter
Or Margarine

Gently toss the berries with the sweetening and klah bark in a large
bowl. Sprinkle the citrus juice over the mixture.  Spoon the berries
into the crust and dot with butter.

FOR 6 TARTS:

each    Crust Recipe 1 each Filling Recipe
1

Divide the ball into two pieces.  Work with one at a time.  Form each
into a ball and press out into a circle.  Divide each circle into 6.
Flatten to 1/4-inch, and cut into 5-inch circles and fit into 6 tart
pans. Fill with the berry mixture.  Moisten the edge of each tart and
top with a second circle of crust dough.  Seal and flue the edges.
Cut slits in the top of each tart with a knife. Cover the edge of
each taart with foil.

Bake in a preheated 375 degree F. oven for 10 minutes.  Remove the
foil and continue baking for 8 to 12 minutes more or until the crust
is golden.

Serve Hot!

FOR 12 GATHER PIES:

each    Crust Recipe 1 Large Egg, Beaten 1/2 each Filling
1
Recipe

Roll out the dough on a floured surface to a 1/8-inch thickness.
Using a 3-inch cookie cutter, cut out 24 circles.  Lay out 23 on a
lightly greased cookies sheet.  Divide the filling among the circles,
spooning approximately 2 to 3 Tbls into the center of each, leaving a
1/4-inch boarder.  Brush the border with the beaten egg. Lay the
second circle on top of each pie and press the edges together with a
fork all the way around, streching the top curst gently to fit if
necessary. If desired, mix together 1/4 cup water with 1 1/2 Tbls Of
Sweetening an brush the top of each pie for a sugary glaze. With a
knife, cut three or four short slits in the top of each pie. Bake in
a preheated 400 Degree F oven for 20 to 25 minutes, or until the
crust is golden.  Slide gently off the cookie sheet with a spatula
and serve hot.

