Title: Butter Pecan Crescents
Categories: Cake/cookie, Holiday, Nuts/grains
Yield: 1 servings
1 c  Pecan halves
2 1/4 c  All-purpose flour, divided
2/3 c  Granulated sugar
1/3 c  Confectioners' sugar
1/2 ts Salt
1 c  (2 sticks) unsalted butter,
Chilled and cut into
1/2    -inch
Cubes 1 large egg, chilled
4 ts Vanilla extract
Coating: 12 ounces Swiss milk chocolate, coarsely chopped

Make the cookie dough: 1. Position a rack in the center of the oven
and preheat to 375~F. Put three heavy, large ungreased baking sheets
in the refrigerator.

2. In a food processor fitted with the metal chopping blade, process
the pecans with 1 cup of the flour for 30 to 45 seconds, or until the
mixture is ground to a fine powder. Add the remaining 1 1/4 cups
flour, granulated sugar confectioners' sugar and salt. Process for 10
to 15 seconds, or until the mixture is thoroughly blended.

3. Evenly distribute the butter cubes in a circle around the chopping
blade. Add the egg and vanilla. Process for 45 to 60 seconds, or
until the mixture is creamy. Make sure that the butter is completely
blended into the batter.)

4. Fill a pastry bag fitted with a closed star tip (such as Ateco #4)
with one-fourth of the cookie dough. (Slightly pry open the teeth on
the end of the pastry tip so that any small nut particles do not get
caught between the points as you pipe.)

5. Remove a chilled baking sheet from the refrigerator. Starting at
the left-hand side of the midsection of the baking sheet, pipe 2-inch
crescents about 2 inches apart across the center of the baking sheet.
(This will enable you to pipe straight and even lines across the
baking sheet.) Continue piping until the bottom half the baking sheet
is covered with piped cookies. Turn the baking sheet 180 degrees and
continue piping crescents onto the other half of the baking sheet.

6. Refrigerate the baking sheet for 10 to 15 minutes, or until the
piped cookie dough is firm. Pipe the rest of the cookie dough onto
the remaining chilled baking sheets and refrigerate.

7. Bake the cookies one baking sheet at a time for 12 to 15 minutes,
or until lightly browned. Turn the baking sheet half way through
baking for even browning. Using a metal pancake spatula, immediately
transfer the cookies to wire racks to cool.

Coat the cookies:

8. Melt the milk chocolate according to the melting instructions in
the Chocolate Key OR temper the chocolate following the

tempering instructions on page 72. Scrape the melted or tempered
chocolate into a small heatproof bowl. Place the bowl of chocolate
over a smaller bowl of warm (86~F to 88~F) water.

9. Dip the two ends of the cookies halfway into the melted or tempered
chocolate. Place the cookies on a waxed paper-lined baking sheet and
refrigerate for 5 to 10 minutes, or until the chocolate is set. Store
the cookies dipped in melted chocolate in an airtight container in the
refrigerator for up to two weeks. The cookies coated in tempered
chocolate may be stored in an airtight container at room temperature
for up to 3 weeks.

Source: Chocolatier magazine, January 1991

Sallie (Austin) Krebs PREPARATION: 1 1/2 hours plus baking
FROM:
chilling and cooling times. Cookie dough:

Date: 06-02-95 (159) Fido:
From: Pat Stockett
Cooking

