Title: Chasen's Hobo Steak
Categories: Meats, Main dish
Yield: 2 servings
1    New York steak 3-inch-thick
Freshly ground pepper
1    Strip beef fat *
1 c  Salt
2 tb Water
Sourdough French bread **
1/2 c  Unsalted butter
*  Beef fat - 1/4-inch-thick, as wide as steak is thick or several
smaller pieces of fat.

** Sourdough French bread - cut into 3x1 1/2x4-inch slices, toasted.
Season steak to taste with pepper. Wrap fat around steak to cover
sides completely but not top or bottom of steak. Tie around sides
with 1 string near top or bottom of steak. Tie another string over
steak to hold fat securely. Combine salt and water to make mush.

Mound mush over top of steak, covering meat completely.

Place steak under broiler and broil 8 to 10 minutes, depending on
size. Remove salt crust, keeping crust in 1 piece. Turn steak over
and place salt on other side. Broil another 8 to 10 minutes.

Remove steak from oven and discard salt and fat.

Slice meat, cutting slightly on diagonal. Heat butter in chafing dish
or large skillet until foaming and lightly browned. Place meat, few
slices at a time, in foaming butter. Cook to desired degree of
doneness.

Allow about 1 minute on each side for rare. Place each slice of meat
on 1 slice of toast and spoon some hot butter over.

Each serving contains about: 415 calories; 863 mg sodium; 111 mg
cholesterol; 23 grams fat; 19 grams carbohydrates; 30 grams protein;
0.07 gram fiber.

Source: Maude Chasen of Chasen's in Beverly Hills provided the recipe
in 1978.

The method of finishing the steak in a chafing dish at the table is
typical of Continental service, which one rarely sees today.
(Chasen's is one of the few restaurants in Los Angeles still
practicing table-side service.) The use of fat and a salt crust is a
classic flavoring trick for sealing meat juices. Both the fat and
salt crust are discarded before the steak is finished. It's a great
steak to serve when company comes because it can be cooked ahead and
finished just before serving.

NOTE: Chasen's closed its doors in early 1995.

Presented by: Rose Dosti, L.A. Times Culinary SOS column, 12/3/94,
page H28.

:
Recipe By

Date: 06-16-95 (159) Fido:
From: Dan Klepach
Cooking

