Title: Chicken And Sausage Gumbo
Categories: Cajun/creol, Poultry
Yield: 1 servings
3 lb Chicken
1 ts Butter
1    Onion - unpeeled and
Quartered
1 lg Onion peeled and finely
Chopped
1    Carrot -- quartered
1    Rib celery -- quartered
1    Rib celery -- finely
Chopped
1    Sprig parsely
1 c  All-purpose flour
1/2 ts Salt
1/4 ts Cayenne pepper
1/4 ts Black pepper -- freshly
Ground
1/8 ts White pepper -- finely
Ground
1/2 c  Corn oil
1    Green bell pepper -- finely
Chopped
1 lb Pork sausage - smoked --
Sliced
Louisiana Hot Sauce - to
Taste
Scallion greens -- chopped
Parsley -- chopped, for
Garnish
1.  Cut the chicken into 8 pieces; Reserve the backbone, Wing tips,
neck and gizzards.  In a large heavy saucepan, melt the butter over
moderately high heat.  Add the reserved chicken parts and the
quartered onion, carrot and quartered celery.  Cook, stirring until
browned, about 5 minutes. Add the parsley sprig and 6 cups of water.
Bring to a boil, reduce the heat to moderate and simmer for 1 hour;
strain.

2. In a large plastic bag, combine 1/2 cup of the flour with the salt,
cayenne and black and white pepper.  Add the chicken pieces, a few at
a time, and shake until well coated.  Remove the chicken and reserve
any remaining seasoned flour.

3.  In a large heavy skillet, heat 2 tablespoons of the oil, add the
chicken pieces and cook over high heat, turning once, until browned,
4 to 5 minutes per side.  Remove the chicken and set aside.

4.  Add the remaining 6 tablespoons oil to the skillet and whisk to
scrape up any browned bits from the bottom of the pan.  When the oil
begins to smoke, gradually whisk in the remaining 1/2 cup flour plus
the reserved seasoned flour.  Reduce the heat to moderate and whisk
until the roux becomes a dark red-brown, 3 to 4 minutes.  Remove the
skillet from the heat and stir in half of the chopped onion, celery
and green pepper; stir until the roux stops browning and cools
slightly, 3 to 5 minutes.

5.  In a large casserole, combine the stock and enough water to equal
8 cups.  Add the remaining chopped onion, celery and green pepper and
bring to a boil over high heat.  Stir in the roux.  1 spoonful at the
time. Reduce the heat to moderate and simmer for 45 minutes.

6.  Add the chicken and the sliced sausage and cook until the chicken
is very tender, about 45 minutes longer.  (If the gumbo thickens too
much, add a little water.)  Remove from the heat; let stand for 20
minutes.

7.  Skim off all of the fat that rises to the surface and season the
gumbo with salt, pepper and hot sauce to taste.  Sprinkle the
scallion greens and chopped parsley over the gumbo.  Serve with rice.

: Alex Patout, Patout's, New Orleans
Recipe By

Date: 05-21-95 (159) Fido:
From: Marjorie Scofield
Cooking

