Title: Christine's Jamaican Jerk Sauce
Categories: Salsa/sauce, Caribbean, Chilies
Yield: 1 servings
1/2 c  Ground Allspice
1/2 c  Brown Sugar -- or more
6    To 8 Garlic cloves
4    To 6 Scotch Bonnet Peppers
(or equivalent)/seeds and
All
1 tb Ground Thyme
(or 2 TB thyme leaves)
2 bn Scallions
1 ts Cinnamon
1/2 ts Nutmeg
Soy sauce to moisten
(2 TBSP)
Put everything in a food processor and blend until smooth. You may use
allspice berries, if available, but use enough to give the equivalent
of 1/2 cup ground.  This will keep "forever" in the refrigerator.
Feel free to increase the garlic, and the hot peppers. I do. The
recipe, double, and triples very well.    Rub about 1/4 cup sauce
into each chicken, halved, and get under the skin and in all the
cavities. It is pork, use a de-boned shoulder, score the fat, and rub
the sauce in, using 1/2 cup, or more, per 6 lb shoulder. Use less for
fish.  Marinate, preferably overnight, and grill over a low fire,
until done. Charcoal is ideal. The meat will be a smoky pink when
done, and the skin nice and dark. Chop the meat into pieces, and
serve traditionally with a hard-dough bread, and LOTS of Red Stripe
Beer! This is the recipe for a Jamaican Jerk Sauce exactly as
Christine Morin posted it here some months ago. Chris is a restaurant
owner, caterer, and chef from Jamaica and this is her Jerk Sauce
recipe and method. It can be made in bulk, refrigerated, and used to
marinate chicken (whole, half, or wings, pork (chops or deboned
shoulder, or fresh picnic)), or a firm- fleshed fish like grouper or
dolphin. It is VERY popular Jamaican eating.... and introduces a
pepper called a Scotch Bonnet; an extremely flavorful and aromatic,
and HOT AS ALL HELL Jamaican pepper, that makes a jalapeno seem tame,
by comparison. The SB, as I know it, seems to have "relatives" all
over the Caribbean, Central and South America, and even into the West
coast of the US. One of them is the Habanero.

:
Recipe By

Date: 06-15-95 (159) Fido:
From: Dan Klepach
Cooking

