Title: Cold Garlicky Mediterranean Mussels
Categories: Seafood, Appetizers
Yield: 30 appetizers
2 lb Mussels
1 tb Unsalted butter
1/3 c  White onion, minced
1 ts Minced garlic, divided
1/2 c  Dry white vermouth
1/4 c  Tightly packed fresh parsley
-divided
1/4 c  Fresh dill, stems removed
1 ts Shallot, minced
pn Salt
1/4 ts Herbes de Provence *
1 ts Dijon mustard
1 ts Red wine vinegar
1/2 ts Balsamic vinegar
1 ts Reserved mussel brot
ds Tabasco sauce
4    Grindings fresh blac
2 pn Sugar
3 tb Extra virgin olive o
-at room temp
2 tb Heavy cream, room te
* A combination of regional hervs such as thyme, sage, rosemary and
lavender, available in specialty food stores and some supermarkets.

Mussels need to be cooked a day or two ahead and marinaded fo the
flav to blend and the garlic and shallots to lose some of their sharp
edge.

Rinse and scrub the mussels, but don't beard them until right before
cooking.

In a large noncorrosive saucepan, over medium heat, melt the butter.
bubbling, suate the onion and 1/2 ts. of garlic until translucent, abo
minutes.  Add the vermouth and about 1 tb. of the parsley, and then th
mussels.  Steam, covered, about 5 mintues or just until the mussels op
stirring once or twice and removing them to a large bowl one at a
time they open, using tongs to drain any liquid back into the pot.
Reserve ts. of the broth.

When the mussels are cool enough to handle, remover the upper shells
a pull the mussels out of the shell.  Save the most attractive half
of e shell and, if necessary, remove the connective muscle attached
to the shell. Cover the mussels so that they stay moist and plump.

On a chopping board, combine the remaining garlic and the shallots,
srinkle with the salt and minced as finely as possible.  If desired,
c the remaining parsley and the dill in a food processor.
Alternatively add it to the garlic and shallot and chop until finely
minced.

In a medium bowl, place the garlic, and parsley mixture.  Add the
herb de Provence, mustard, vinegars, reserved mussel broth, tabasco,
pepper sugar. Whisk to combine.  Gradually whisk in the oil and then
the cre Stir this mixture into the mussels, and cover tightly with
plastic wra refrigerate for at least 1 day up to 2 days.

Place a mussel, coated with the herb mixture, in each shell and arrang
serving platters.  Cover tightly with plastic wrap and refrigerate
unt 30 minutes before serving.

Recipe for "Rose's Melting Pot"
Submitted By TANANA REYNOLDS   On   05-23-95

