Title: Enjoying Eggs Turkish Style
Categories: Side dish, Cheese/eggs, Turkish
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM----------------ENJOYING EGGS TURKISH STYLE---------------------
Egg dishes are usually the quickest and easiest to prepare, as well as
being nutritious. That humble oval object, the egg, contains the
highest concentration of protein of any other foodstuff. In one 55
gram hen's egg there ar,e 6 grams of protein, 12 grams of fat
(approximately 80 calories) and a host of vitamins and minerals:
vitamins A, B, D, k and K, iron phosphate, calcium, and iodine. So
eggs are a valuable source of nutrients for growing children as well
as adults.Both the white and yolk of eggs play an invaluable role in
cooking.not only in egg dishes per se, but in puddings. cakes,
pastries, souffles, sauces and soups. With a little bit more
preparation than required for simple boiled or fried eggs delicious
supper dishes can be prepared from eggs. We have chosen three quick,
light Turkish egg dishes perfect for an all-in-one summer meal. Note
that in all three dishes a sour ingredient -tomatoes or yogurt -
offsets the richness of the eggs, which is why these are hot weather
favourites in Turkey. MENEMEN: For this tasty summer dish you need: 4
eggs, 2 tablespoons of margarine, two large ripe tomatoes, 2 tapering
green peppers (hot or mild), black pepper, salt and parsley. First
peel and dice the tomatoes, remote the seeds from the peppers and
dice. Melt the fat in saucepan and fry the peppers gently until soft
but not browned. Add the diced tomatoes and stir with a wooden spoon,
pressing on the tomatoes until they are cooked to a puree. Break the
eggs into the tomato, add salt and black pepper and stir constantly
over a medium heat until the juice has evaporated. Now your menemen
is ready. Garnish with finely chopped parsley. Chopped onion and
garlic can also be added to menemen, in which case they should be
sauteed with the peppers. CILBIR: Another easy and memorable dish,
for which you need: a tablespoonful of vinegar, 1 teaspoon salt, 6
eggs, 3 cloves of garlic, 1.5 cups yogurt, 2 tablespoons butter, and
1 teaspoon paprika. First crush the garlic with a little salt and
beat into the yogurt. Then poach the eggs in a deep saucepan
containing an inch or so of water mixed with the vinegar and salt.
When the water is boiling hard, reduce the heat and gently break the
eggs into the water,spacing them well apart. As soon as the whites
have set over the yolks (a few minutes), remove the eggs carefully
with a strainer spoon and place on a serving dish . Pour the garlic
yogurt over the top. Then melt the butter in a small pan, and stir in
the paprika. Pour this over the yogurt. Your cilbir is ready. TOMATO
OMELET: Take: three tomatoes, 2 tablespoons of olive oil, I
tablespoon butter, 4 eggs 1/2 teaspoon of salt and black pepper.
First peel tomatoes and dice. Heat the olive oil in a small pan, add
the tomatoes and simmer for 10 minutes. When the tomatoes have
softened well season with salt and pepper. Meanwhile break 4 eggs
into a bowl and beat well with a fork. Melt the butter in a medium
sized saucepan, and before it gets brown empty the egg mixture into
the pan and reduce the heat. Stir your omelet with a wooden spoon to
ensure that all the mixture cooks, and shake the pan to prevent it
sticking.Then pour the tomato puree over your golden yellow omelet
and cook together for a few more minutes. Either fold the omelet in
half or roll it up to serve. Source: Selim Arikan Turkish Arlines
Skylife, July 1993 pp.48-50

Submitted By SAM LEFKOWITZ   On   06-27-95

