Title: Freezing and Thawing Seafood
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 info
MMMMM-----------------------NO INGREDIENTS----------------------------
Freezing Seafood at Home

Fish

1. Rinse the fish with cold running water.

2. Smaller fish can be frozen in one piece. Large fish or pieces of
fish should be cut into 1-inch thick fillets or steaks.

3. The key to successful freezing is to create a barrier to air. Wrap
tightly in plastic wrap then protect with an over-wrap of aluminum
foil.

OR

Place the seafood in a resealable plastic freezer bag. Press the bag
gently to remove air trapped in the bag. Seal and wrap with aluminum
foil.

4. Label with name of seafood and the date frozen. 5. Place in a
single layer with at least 1 inch of surrounding space to allow for
adequate circulation of cold air. One-inch thick fillets will freeze
in about 16 hours.

Smoked Fish

When freezing smoked fish, brush a light coating of canola oil to
reduce dehydration and oxidation. Package and freeze as above.

Crab

Cook crab before freezing to prevent discoloration of the crabmeat.
Once the crab has cooled and the meat has been picked from the shell,
package and freeze as above.

Note: home-frozen seafood should be used in no more than two months;
commercially frozen seafood up to four months.

Thawing Seafood

To maintain the quality of frozen seafood, it is best to defrost it
in the refrigerator overnight. Avoid thawing seafood at room
temperature or by placing it in warm water.

Slow thawing will help retain moisture, flavor and nutrients. Figure a
thawing time of 18-24 hours for a one-pound package.

If you're in a hurry, you can thaw frozen fish and shellfish under
cold running water. Seal the seafood in a plastic bag and place in a
large bowl. Position the bowl and seafood under the faucet and adjust
the faucet so that a steady stream of water circulates and spills out
of the bowl. A one-pound package will take 30-60 minutes to thaw.

To thaw seafood in the microwave, select the lowest defrost power
(typically 30%) and follow the manufacturer's instructions for
thawing. A one-pound portion of seafood will typically take about
five minutes. Be careful to avoid cooking the seafood. Fish and
shellfish defrosted in the microwave should be prepared immediately.

Note: unless a recipe calls for coating, marinating or stuffing; or
the seafood is frozen in a block, it may not be necessary to thaw the
fish or shellfish before cooking. Not only is it convenient, but
cooking frozen seafood is an excellent way to preserve the most
flavor, moisture and nutrients. It is especially effective with
baking, poaching and broiling. When cooking frozen seafood, just
double the cooking time.

Simply Seafood Spring 1995
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   06-19-95

