Title: FRIJOLES EN OLLA / FRIJOLES REFRITOS
Categories: Vegetables, Tex/mexican, Usenet
Yield: 4 servings
MMMMM----------------------FRIJOLES EN OLLA---------------------------
1 lb Pinto beans (dried)
1 lg Onion, quartered
4 sl Bacon (or less)
1 tb Salt
MMMMM---------------------FRIJOLES REFRITOS--------------------------
4 c  Pinto beans (cooked),
-drained (or less)
2 tb Vegetable oil
Broth from cooked
-pinto beans
PREPARE FRIJOLES EN OLLA:  Pick through the dried pinto beans to
remove small rocks (processors never seem to get rid of all of them).
Rinse beans well several times until water runs clear and all grit is
removed.

Place beans in a large pot with enough water to reach 2/3's of the
way up the pot. Bring water to a boil and add 1 large quartered onion
and 3-4 slices of bacon. During the cooking process, the onion will
become mush. This and the bacon add real flavor to the beans.

Cook over low heat for 3-4 hours until the beans are very soft and
tender. Beans should just bubble, not boil, during the cooking
process.  During the first 90 minutes, stir and check frequently.
The beans absorb a large amount of water and you will have to add
some periodically to prevent burning.

Add salt during the last 30 minutes.  Finished beans should have the
consistency of bean soup, which I guess this is.

PREPARE FRIJOLES REFRITOS:  Heat oil in a medium skillet.  Add drained
cooked pinto beans to the skillet and mash up into a paste. (I use an
old hand potato masher but a perforated metal cooking spoon also
works well).

Saute the beans over medium heat for about 5 minutes, stirring
frequently to prevent burning and adding a little bean broth as
necessary for proper consistency.  The  finished beans should be like
thick library paste in texture.

NOTES:

*  Tex-Mex style pinto beans are known in Mexico as "Frijoles En
Olla," or beans in the pot.  This is the basis for refried beans
(Frijoles Refrito), but we also like it as well as a side dish.
Yield: Serves 4-6.

: Difficulty:  easy.
: Time:  10 minutes, plus cooking time of frijoles en olla.
: Precision:  no need to measure.

: Pamela McGarvey
: UCLA Comrehensive Epilepsy Program
: {ihnp4!sdcrdcf,ucbvax!ucla-cs,hao}!cepu!pam

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

