Title: Hamburger Buns 3
Categories: Breads
Yield: 1 servings
1/4    To 1 cup warm water
1 pk Active dry yeast
2 tb Instant nonfat dry milk
1 ts Salt
1 tb Sugar
2 3/4 c  All-purpose flour
1 1/2 tb Butter or margarine
1    Egg, beaten
Combine 1/4 cup of the water, sugar and yeast.  Stir to dissolve
yeast and let stand until bubbly, about 5 minutes.

Fit processor with steel blade.  Measure flour, dry milk, butter and
salt into work bowl.  Process until mixed, about 15 seconds. Add
yeast mixture to flour mixture.  Process until blended, about 10
seconds.

Turn on processor and very slowly drizzle just enough remaining water
through feed tube into flour mixture so dough forms a ball that cleans
sides of bowl.  Process until ball turns around bowl about 25 times.
Turn off processor and let dough stand 1 to 2 minutes.

Turn on processor and gradually drizzle in enough remaining water to
make dough soft, smooth and satiny but not sticky.  Process until
dough turns around bowl about 15 times.

Turn dough onto lightly greased surface.  Cover with inverted bowl or
plastic wrap.  Let stand 30 minutes.

Knead dough 3 or 4 times.  Divide dough into 12 equal pieces. Shape
each into a smooth ball and place on greased cookie sheet. Flatten
balls using palm of hand.  Let stand in warm place until doubled,
about 45 minutes.

Heat oven to 375 F.  Brush buns with beaten egg.  Bake until golden,
20 - 25 minutes. Remove immediately from cookie sheet and cool on
wire rack.

HOT DOG BUNS:  Prepare dough as directed for Hamburger Buns and
divide into 12 equal pieces.  Shape each piece into bun 6 inches
long. Let rise and bake as for Hamburger Buns.

ONION ROLLS:  Prepare dough as directed for Hamburger Buns adding 1
tablespoon instant minced onions and 1 teaspoon caraway seeds to work
bowl with flour, dry milk, butter and salt.  Divide dough into 12
equal parts. Shape each part into buns 6 inches long. Let rise and
bake as directed for Hamburger Buns.

From the collection of Jim Vorheis

Date: 06-27-95 (19:20) (160)
From: Gail Shipp
Fido: Recipes

