Title: Home Made Wine
Categories: Beverages, Alcohol
Yield: 6 servings
MMMMM----------------------HOME MADE WINES---------------------------
9 lb Concord Grapes
4 3/4 lb Sugar
GRAPE WINE:

Wash and pick over the grapes and place with sugarin a 2-gallon jar.
Fill with cold water. Cover with cheese cloth and keep in a warm
place. Stir twice a week for 6 weeks. Strain and let stand 2 weeks
longer to settle. Strain and bottle like grape juice.

DRY GRAPE WINE:

Pick over, wash and stem grapes. Put in a stone crock and crush. Let
stand a week but stir every day. Squeeze the grapes and strain the
juice. To every gallon of juice, use 2 pounds sugar. Boil sugar with
just enough water to disslove; add hot syrup to juice. Place in a
crock big enough to allow bubbling. Let stand 24 hours. Pour into
sterilized jugs; do not cork. Cover with a piece of cloth as wine
will not ferment. When fermentation stops, taste; if not sweet
enough, add cold sugar syrup.

CONCORD GRAPE WINE, LARGE QUANTITY:

4 large (12-pound) baskets of grapes. Pick over, wash, and mash
grapes and put into a crock with 1 pound sugar; let stand covered
with cheesecloth for a week to 10 days; press grapes and put juice in
crock with 10 pounds sugar; skim daily until it stops foaming --
about 10 days; siphon into a 5-gallon keg; make a syrup of 1 cup
sugar to a quart of water, and add syrup to keep keg filled, so wine
can work and overflow; after it stops working, put in bung with vent;
then change to tight bung in March. Bottle in the autumn when keg is
needed for next year's wine. Drip through filter paper before
bottling.

RED BEET PORT WINE:

5 lb Beets
1 ga Water
2 1/2 lb Sugar
1/2 ts Ground Pepper
1 oz Dry Granular Yeast
1 sl Whole Wheat Toast

Wash beets well. Grind beets with skin on. Boil in water until tender.
Strain through cloth. Add sugar and pepper to liquid. Boil 15
minutes, then pour into crock and cool. Spread yeast on toast. Place
on top of jar, yeast side up. Let stand 12 days in a warm place at
room temperature, then strain and bottle.

CURRANT, BLACKBERRY, ELDERBERRY OR RHUBARB WINES:

Make like Grape Wine, using less sugar for Blackberry or Elderberry
wines.

GRAPEFRUIT WINE:

1 ga Grapefruit Juice
2 lb Sugar

Add sugar to juice and mix well. Put in gallon jug. Put jug in a large
shallow pan to catch overflow.  Cover with double thickness of
cheesecloth. Let stand 4 weeks at room temperature, undisturbed until
fermentation has stopped. Then strain through cheesecloth, being
careful not use the sediment that forms at the bottom of the jug.
Strain again, this time with filter paper. Pour into sterilized
bottles and cork. Keep in a dark place.

RAISIN WINE:

2 lb Raisins; chopped
1 lb White Loaf Sugar
1 ea Lemon; sliced
6 qt Boiling Water

Combine ingredients in a stone jar, cover and stir every day for a
week. Then strain, bottle and cork . Wine is ready to drink 10 or 12
days after bottling.

