Title: Home Made Wines (Cont.)
Categories: Beverages, Alcohol
Yield: 6 servings
MMMMM----------------BLACKBERRY/ELDERBERRY SPICES---------------------
1 tb EACH: Whole Allspice, Cloves
-and 1 piece Stick Cinnamon
MMMMM----------------BLACKBERRY/ELDERBERRY OTHER---------------------
8 qt Blackberries or Elderberries
2 qt Cold Water
4 lb Sugar
2 qt Whisky or Brandy
BLACKBERRY OR ELDERBERRY CORDIAL:

Tie spices in a cloth bag. Pick over and wash berries. Place in a
preserving kettle, cover with water, boil until thoroughly soft; then
strain. Measure, and to each quart of juice add 2 cups sugar. Add
spice bag and boil 20 minutes. Let cool, and measure again. To each
quart of syrup, add 1 pint of whisky. Bottle and cork tightly. Will
keep; improves with age.

CHERRY BOUNCE:

1 qt Cherries
1/2 lb Lump Sugar
1 tb Allspice, Cinnamon and Cloves;
-heads removed
1 pt Whisky

Wash cherries and pick off the stems. Fill a large-mouthed bottle with
alternately with a thick layer of cherries, a layer of sugar and a
few of the whole spices. Repeat until the bottle is almost full. Then
add whisky to fill. Cork and let stand in a dark place for 2 months
or more. The older it is, the better.

DANDELION WINE:

1 ga Dandelion Flowers
1 ga Boiling Water
3 lb Sugar
3 ea Oranges; cut into
-small pieces
3 ea Lemons; cut into
-small pieces
1 oz Yeast

Pick dandelion flowers early in the morning, taking care not to have a
particle of the bitter stem attached. Pour boiling water over the
flowers and let stand 3 days. Strain and add the rest of the
ingredients; let stand 3 weeks to ferment. Strain, bottle.

PEACH BRANDY:

Pare peaches but do not stone. Put 1/2-inch layer of sugar into a
wide-mouthed half-gallon jar; then a layer of peaches. Cover well with
sugar, carefully filling all the crevices. Repeat layers of sugar and
peaches, with sugar on top. Seal, let stand 6 months to ripen. Drain
and bottle liquid. Peaches may be served as dessert sauce.

From: The Settlement Cookbook: The Way To A Man's Heart By: Various
Authors

Transcribed By: S. Lefkowitz

