Title: Langostinos
Categories: Information, Seafood
Yield: 1 info
MMMMM-----------------------NO INGREDIENTS----------------------------
The langostino is a small crustacean that packs a big taste. A member
of the lobster family, it yields a tasty morsel of tail meat that
offers an affordable alternative to higher-priced shellfish like
lobster and shrimp.

Langostinos are caught in the cold waters off the coast of Chile
during a season that runs from May to September. The catch is
delivered live to shoreside processing plants where the langostinos
are cooked and then handpicked to removed the tail meat. Frozen
before shipping, they need only be thawed and warmed up if desired.
As a result, they're a truly convenient seafood, perfect for pastas,
salads and seafood stews.

Look for langostinos in the freezer case where they're sold in
packages of tail meat. They're either frozen individually (IQF for
individually quick frozen), allowing you to thaw only as many as you
need, or sealed in bulk in vacuum-packed bags. Either way, you can
use the same guides for buying them that you would for cooked peeled
shrimp. The meats should be whitish-pink, with no signs of drying or
freezer burn.

Upon thawing, langostinos, like cooked shrimp, will quickly show the
care taken during processing. The meats should be moist and have a
firm texture. If they feel slimy or have any off-odors, they should
be discarded.

In the wild, langostinos are the smallest of lobsters. With their
small bodies (4-5 inches) and oversized claws, they look like a cross
between a crawfish and a traditional American lobster. The tail meat
accounts for around 10% of the animal and although there are no size
grades, there will typically be anywhere from 100 to 200 meats per
pound.

Langostinos are found almost exclusively off the coast of Chile.
They're caught by trawling, usually at depths of 125-200 meters. The
entire harvest is less than 9 million pounds, yielding roughly 1
million pounds of meat.

Occasionally the term langostino is confused with other small,
so-called "lobsterettes". Langoustine, for example, is what the
French call Norway lobster, a similar-looking, but only distantly
related species found in European waters. Likewise, the terms
langouste and langosta are simply the French and Spanish words,
respectively, for spiny lobster, and shouldn't be confused with the
real langostino.

Compared to other crustaceans, langostinos are wonderfully affordable,
often selling for less than many medium-sized shrimp  and as little
as half the price of cooked lobster meat. Because the bulk of the
catch is frozen, there are few ups and downs in the supply, making
them available year-round.

Like the best crustaceans, langostinos have a firm texture and a mild,
slightly sweet flavor. Put another way, they offer the flavor of
lobster in shrimp-sized portions. In fact, if you treat them the same
way you treat cooked shrimp or lobster meat, you can't go wrong.

The bottom line with langostinos is their wonderful convenience.
Because they're already cooked, the only risk is in overcooking them
which will make them dry and rubbery. Otherwise, you can simply thaw
them and serve them chilled on a salad, or thaw and reheat them  and
add them to any dish that calls for lobster, shrimp or crab. For
cooked dishes, remember to add them just a few minutes before
removing the dish from the heat.

Like many shellfish, langostinos offer a lean, low-fat dining option.
the only caveat is that shellfish tend to be higher in cholesterol
and can provide up to half of the daily amount recommended. One 3-oz
serving has 72 calories, less than 1 gram of fat, 144 mg of
cholesterol, 17 grams of protein and 500 mg of sodium.

Simply Seafood Spring 1995
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   06-19-95

