Title: LIGHT HOLLANDAISE
Categories: Salsa/sauce, Usenet
Yield: 1 1/2 cups
3 tb Lemon juice, fresh
3 tb Water
1/2 ts Salt
3    Eggs
6 oz Butter, unsalted
-(more as needed)
Melt the butter in a small saucepan.  It should be warm, but not
bubbling hot. Combine the lemon juice and water in a small sauce pan.
Bring to a simmer, adding the salt.

Meanwhile, place one egg and the yolks of the other two in a smallish
saucepan.  Vigorously beat the egg and yolks with a wire whip for a
minute or so, until they are pale and thick.

Set the yolk mixture over moderately low heat and whisk in the hot
lemon juice by driblets. Continue whisking, not too fast, but
reaching all over the bottom and corners of the pan, until you have a
foamy warm mass. Remove from heat just as you see a wisp of steam
rising. (Do not overheat or you will coagulate the egg yolks.)

Immediately start beating in the warm butter by driblets, to make a
thick, creamy, light yellow sauce.  Taste carefully for seasoning,
adding salt, pepper, and more lemon juice to taste.

NOTES:

*  A quick and easy Hollandaise sauce -- Few small things seem to
impress dinner guests more than a good Hollandaise sauce.  Perhaps
this is because the guests think it is difficult to execute. This
recipe disproves that notion; it makes it simple to produce a
consistently good Hollandaise sauce.  Use it over asparagus, to dip
artichokes, with steak and rice, or for anything you can imagine. The
original recipe comes from Julia Child & Company.

*  This sauce is really so easy to make, you should leave it to the
last minute.  It doesn't keep terribly well.  Any egg yolk and butter
sauce can be kept only warm, not hot, or it will curdle. Also
remember that sauces with egg yolks are prime breeding grounds for
sick-making bacteria.

*  Copper or stainless steel saucepans are best, as they transmit and
hold heat better than anything else.  I often make this solely in
Corningware pots, and find that sometimes the sauce will not set
after removing from heat and adding the butter. In this case, return
the mixture to very low heat, whisking vigorously until the sauce
achieves the desired thickness. Too much heat will either curdle the
egg yolks or cause the butter to separate from the mixture.

: Difficulty:  easy to moderate.
: Time:  5 minutes.
: Precision:  approximate measurement OK.

: Chris Kent
: DEC Western Research Laboratory, Palo Alto, California, USA
: kent@decwrl.dec.com

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

