Title: Meatballs With Sausages With Red Hot Pepper Sauce
Categories: Italian, Meats, Sausage, Hot/spicy
Yield: 4 servings
2 lg Red bell pepper -- finely
-chopped
3    Hot chili peppers -- seeded
& minced
1 md Onion -- finely chopped
3    Cloves garlic -- minced
Salt and pepper
2 ts Cumin
1 ts Coriander
1 tb Olive oil
1 1/2 c  Water
1 1/2 tb Ketchup
1 1/2 c  Crushed tomatoes
4 sl Bread -- crumbled
1 c  Milk
1 lb Ground beef
1 lb Ground turkey
2    Cloves garlic -- minced
1 sm Onion -- grated
1 ts Dried basil
2    Egg
2 tb Tomato paste
1 tb Olive oil
1 1/2 lb Italian sausage -- thickly
-sliced
1 sm Onion -- diced
1 1/2 c  Water
For the sauce combine the bell peppers, chilies, onion, garlic, salt,
pepper, cumin, coriander and oil in a small heavy saucepan.  Cook over
medium heat until the vegetables begin to soften, about 2  minutes.
Add the water and simmer until the vegetables are very soft and the
liquid has reduced to about 1/4 cup, about 15 minutes. Stir in the
ketchup and tomatoes.  Set aside.  For the meatballs, combine the
bread and milk in a small bowl and let stand for 5 minutes.  Combine
the ground meats, garlic, grated onion, basil, eggs, tomato paste and
soaked bread and milk in a large bowl.  Using your hands, mix
thoroughly and form into 48-1" meatballs.  Heat the olive oil in a
large skillet over medium high heat and brown the sausage slices on
both sides.  Remove with tongs or a slotted spoon and set aside.
Brown the meatballs on all sides in the same oil. Remove with a
slotted spoon and set aside.  Pour off all but a thin film of oil
from the pan.  Reduce heat to medium.  Add the sliced onion and cook
until lightly browned, about 3 minutes.  Add the sausage, meatballs
and and 3/4 cup of water and simmer until all the water is gone,
tossing frequently, about 10 minutes.  When the pan is dry, the
meatballs and sausage should be cooked through.  Cut one open to
check.  If underdone, add another 1/2 cup water and cook some more.
Transfer half the meatballs and sausages to a serving bowl and toss
with 1 cup of the sauce. Reserve 24 pieces cooked sausage for Easy
Gumbo.  Reserve 24 meatballs for Spicy Spaghetti & Meatballs.
Reserve 1/2 cup red pepper sauce for Spicy Spaghetti & Meatballs.
Reserve 1/2 cup red pepper sauce for Easy Gumbo. Reserve 1/2 cup red
pepper sauce for Spiced Scallop Stew. Reserve 1/2 cup red pepper
sauce for Cheddar Potato Pancakes Jardiniere.

: Dinner's Ready
Recipe By

Date: 06-28-95 (21:19) (159)
From: Meg Antczak
Fido: Cooking

