Title: Mrs. Hasting's Orange-Pecan Loaf
Categories: Breads, Beverages
Yield: 12 servings
Flour
1 1/2 ts Baking soda
1/2 c  Unsalted butter -- softened
Sugar
2 lg Eggs
1 ts Vanilla
1/2 c  Raisins -- coarsely chopped
1 tb Grated orange zest
1/2 c  Pecans -- coarsely chopped
1 c  Low-fat buttermilk
1 c  Fresh orange juice
Spray 8x4-inch loaf pan with nonstick cooking spray and flour well,
tapping out excess.

Sift together 2 cups flour and baking soda and set aside.

Place butter in bowl of electric mixer and beat on medium speed,
gradually adding 1 cup sugar in thin stream. When all sugar has been
added, beat in eggs one at a time. Beat in vanilla.

Lower speed and add raisins, orange zest and pecans. Then,
alternately, beat in 1 cup flour mixture, then 1/2 cup buttermilk.
Repeat with remaining flour and buttermilk. Turn off mixer and scrape
down sides of bowl, if necessary, during mixing process.

Pour batter into prepared pan and smooth with spatula. Bake on center
oven shelf at 350 degrees until wood pick inserted in center comes
out clean, about 1 hour. Check after first 45 minutes and continue to
check at 10-minute intervals until cake is done. Remove cake from
oven. Unmold onto wire rack set in shallow pan.

Whisk together orange juice and 1/2 cup sugar in bowl. Pour over hot
cake. Ladle orange juice mixture in pan over cake several more times.
Serve cake warm or at room temperature, Loaf will keep well 4 to 5
days, if covered tightly and stored at cool room temperature.

No nutritional info.

Presented by: Betty Rosbottom, L.A. Times sidebar, "Loaf Cake
Lessons", 11/25/94, page H18.

"I discovered this loaf cake in a very old recipe collection
assembled by my mother's Sunday school class years ago. Laden with
raisins, pecans and grated orange peel, the cake is baked and then
doused with orange juice. Incredibly moist, it keeps well for four to
five days and would be delicious also offered as a breakfast bread,
or with coffee or tea as a late-afternoon treat."

:
Recipe By

Date: 06-16-95 (159) Fido:
From: Dan Klepach
Cooking

