Title: Mushroom/Anchovy Sauce
Categories: Vegetables, Salsa/sauce
Yield: 1 servings
4 qt Water
2 ts Salt
1/2 c  Oil
4 oz Mushrooms (soaked in warm
Water for 30 minutes,
Parboil for 20 minutes,
Squeeze dry & chop finely)
2 ea Cloves garlic -- finely
Minced
12 ea Anchovy fillets (prepared
And/
Or washed free of salt as
Below and pounded to pulp
In
Mortar)
1 tb Flat leaf parsley --
Chopped
6 tb Fresh breadcrumbs browned
In
2 tb Oil
Freshly ground pepper
Preheat oven to 400F Bring 4 quarts water and 2 teaspoons salt to a
boil. In a saucepan over medium heat cook the chopped mushrooms with
1 Tablespoon of the oil and 2 Tablespoons water for 15 minutes, or
until very soft. Puree in an electric blender or through a food mill
if you have one.

In a frying pan saute the garlic in the remaining oil until it is just
golden in color.

Add the mushrooms, remove the pan from the fire, and add the pounded
anchovies.  Season with pepper to taste and keep warm.

Anchovy Fillets:  Use salted whole anchovies if possible.To prepare
wash off the excess salt, then soak them in two changes of water,
each soaking lasting about 1/2 hour. After the excess salt has been
washed and soaked away. Grasp the anchovy by the tail, and with your
other hand, use a knife to gently scrape off all its skin.  After
anchovy is skinned, remove the dorsal fin along with the tiny bones
attached to it.  Push your thumbnail into the open end of the anchovy
opposite the tail and run it against the bone, opening the anchovy
flat all the way to the tail.  With your hand, loosen and lift away
the spine, and separate the fish into two boneless fillets.  Brush
your fingertips over both sides of the fillets to detect and remove
any remaining bits of bone.  Rinse under cold running water, then pat
thoroughly, dry with paper towels.  Place them in a jar, cover them
with olive oil (and a few slivered garlic cloves, if desired).
Refrigerate until needed.  In a tightly covered jar, immersed in oil
at all time, they are at their best during the first week, but will
last for at least a month.  Anchovy fillets prepared in this manner
are much firmer in texture than the canned variety, and also far less
salty.  Their flavor is incomparably superior.

Bev in Orange Formatted by Olivia Liebermann

:
Recipe By

Date: 06-16-95 (164) Fido: Home
From: Dan Klepach
Co

