Title: NANA MOON'S CHRISTMAS PUDDING
Categories: Puddings, Holidays, Usenet
Yield: 2 puddings
3 c  Flour (unbleached)
1/2 lb Suet (see note)
1 c  Brown sugar
1 c  Bread crumbs
3/4 lb Raisins
3/4 lb Sultanas
-(or golden raisins)
1/4 lb Currants
1 c  Brandy
-(or orange juice,
-or a mixture of both)
1 tb Golden (cane) syrup
5    Eggs
1/2 ts Baking soda
1 tb Milk
Combine the suet, flour, sugar, bread crumbs, fruit and brandy.
Cover and allow to stand overnight.

Add the syrup and beaten eggs.  Dissolve the baking soda in the milk,
and add to mixture. Stir until everything's combined. (The mixture
will be fairly thick. My mother used to get help at this stage by
telling us that if we stirred it three times and made a wish, the
wish would come true. This only works with Christmas puddings.)

Place in two 1 1/2 quart pudding basins, cover with paper and several
layers of aluminum foil, and steam for 4 hours.

When you're going to eat it, steam it for a further 2 hours.  Serve by
turning it out of the bowl, and pouring flaming brandy over it (see
below). Serve with brandy butter (hard brandy sauce).

This pudding needs time to age between when you cook it and
Christmas.  My mother generally makes it about a month before.  Keep
it in the refrigerator until the day you will be eating it.

Each pudding will serve about 8-10 people.  If you halve the recipe,
use 3 eggs.  You can also add cherries, figs, almonds and so on when
you're adding the fruit.

NOTES:

*  Old-fashioned Christmas boiled pudding -- This recipe was first
written down by my great-grandmother.  It's an old-fashioned boiled
pudding, and was always a special part of Christmas in my family.
Nana Moon's family came from Sofala, the site of the 1851 gold rush
in New South Wales, Australia, where they raised sheep (before the
gold rush). It's probably based on an English recipe.

This recipe differs from others I've seen in that it uses no spices,
just dried fruit and brandy.  Perhaps spices were too difficult to
get, it tastes great anyway. Makes two puddings.

*  The suet can be replaced with some other form of shortening.  The
packaged suet we used to be able to get in Australia was only about 35
percent suet, the rest was cornflour (cornstarch). Avoid that at all
costs. For a few years, we bought suet from the butcher and grated it
ourselves (ok, we used a blender), but no one should have to do that
(at least, not during an Australian summer).

*  If you decide to go for authenticity and use a pudding bag, here's
how:

Get a large piece of calico (it must have a tight weave), and boil it
for a few minutes.  Rub flour into the inner surface.  Place 1/2 the
mixture on it, and bring the corners together, leaving room for the
mixture to rise. Tie with string. Cook by immersing in boiling water,
when you add extra water, it must be already boiling, or the pudding
will get soggy. The pudding will be rounder, and have a better crust
than one steamed in a pudding bowl.  A good crust means that the
brandy won't soak in when you light it, so it'll burn for longer. Age
the pudding by hanging it in a cool, dry place.  The problem with
using a pudding bag is that it tends to grow mold if the climate is
too humid.

*  To light the pudding, heat about 1/4 cup of brandy in a saucepan.
Light it, then pour over the pudding and carry it to the table.

: Difficulty:  moderate.
: Time:  1 day waiting, 30 minutes preparation, 4 hours cooking, 1
month aging.
: Precision:  approximate measurement OK.

: Kathy Morris
: Stanford University, Palo Alto, Calif., USA
: sun!navajo!morris morris@navajo.stanford.edu

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

