Title: Oaxacan Black Mole (Directions)
Categories: Poultry, Tex/mexican
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM-------------------------DIRECTIONS------------------------------
Put the chicken into a saucepan with the garlic, onions, and mint. Add
water to cover and salt to taste.  Bring to a simmer, cover the pan,
and continue simmering until the chicken is just tender - about 35
minutes. Strain, reserving the broth.

Remove stems from the dried chiles, if any, slit them open, and remove
seeds and veins, reserving the seeds.  Toast the chiles for about 50
seconds on each side; if you are using guajillos, toast them longer,
until they are almost charred - about 2 minutes. Rinse the chiles in
cold water, cover with hot water, and leave to soak for about 30
minutes.  Put the reserved chile seeds into an ungreased frying pan
and toast over fairly high heat, shaking them around from time to
time so that they brown evenly. Then raise the heat and char until
black.  Cover with cold water and set aside to soak for about 5
minutes.    Strain and put into a blender jar.

Add the broiled tomatoes, unpeeled, to the blender jar along with the
water, cloves, allspice, thyme, marjoram, and oregano.

Heat some of the lard in a small frying pan and fry the sesame seed
until a deep golden color - a few seconds.  Strain, putting the fat
back into the pan and the seeds into the blender jar, and blend as
smooth as possible.

Fry the rest of the ingredients, except the chiles and chocolate, one
by one, strain, and put into the blender jar, blending after each
addition and adding water or broth as necessary to release the blades.

Heat 1/4 cup of the lard in the heavy pan in which you are going to
cook the mole, add the blended mixture, and fry over medium heat,
stirring and scraping the bottom of the pan from time to time, for
about 15 minutes. Meanwhile, put a few of the chiles and about 2 cups
of the water in which they were soaking into the blender jar and
blend until smooth.  When you have blended all the chiles, add them
to the fried ingredients together with the chocolate and cook for 5
minutes longer.  Add about 4 cups of the chicken broth and continue
cooking for 35 minutes.  (Skim the fat that forms on the top if you
are going to make tamales or mole.  It is added to color and flavor
the masa.) Add more broth if necessary - the mole should just coat
the back of a wooden spoon - along with the chicken and salt to
taste; cook for 10 minutes longer.

:
Recipe By

Date: 06-16-95 (164) Fido: Home
From: Dan Klepach
Co

