Title: PAVLOVA I
Categories: Desserts, Down under, Usenet
Yield: 6 servings
4    Egg whites
-(at room temperature)
1 c  Sugar, castor
1 tb Vinegar
Cornflour
With an electric mixer, beat the egg whites until soft peaks form,
then gradually add the sugar (about 1 t every 30 seconds).  This will
take around 15 minutes. Beat until firm. Add the vinegar. When
combined, turn out onto a flat baking sheet that has been greased and
dusted with cornflour. Shape it so that there will be a hollow in the
centre to hold the fruit.

Cook in a pre-heated, warm oven (350-375 degrees F.) for 10 minutes,
then at 200-250 degrees F. for 40-50 mins.

When cooked, turn the oven off and allow to cool slowly in the oven
for at least an hour, preferably overnight.  Gradual cooling is
important.  Serve cold, topped with whipped cream and fresh fruit
such as strawberries, bananas and kiwi fruit.

NOTES:

*  Pavlova (Australian meringue dessert) -- This is a quintessentially
Australian dish.  The legend behind it is that it was created by a
chef in Adelaide after he had seen Anna Pavlova dance, saying that he
wanted to create a dessert that was as light and airy as her dancing.

Australians pride themselves on their ability to cook a good Pavlova.
When important visitors come to an Australian household, they are
likely to be served a Pavlova with plenty of fresh fruit.  There are
many variations on the recipe. This one comes from my friend Janet
Wiles. Yield: Serves 6-8.

*  Castor sugar is known in North America as "granulated sugar."
Cornflour is likewise "cornstarch." The higher temperature initially
is to form a crust on the outside of the meringue base, it should be
crisp on the outside, though not browned, and soft inside. It's
important that the beaters and the bowl are really dry and clean.
Uneven temperatures will cause the base to collapse (keep the oven
door closed and let it cool slowly).  Experienced Pavlova cooks claim
that electric ovens work best because they heat more uniformly.

: Difficulty:  moderate.
: Time:  30 minutes preparation, 1 hour cooking, 1 or more hours
cooling. : Precision:  Measure the ingredients.
:
: Janet Wiles (Janetw@basser.oz), Sydney University, Australia
: Transcribed by Kathy Morris (morris@diablo.ARPA), Stanford
University

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

