Title: Penne with Sun-dried Tomatoes and Chicken
Categories: Main dish, Italian, Poultry, Pasta
Yield: 4 servings
1/4 c  Sun-dried tomatoes, not
-packed in oil
6 oz Boneless, skinless chicken
-breast
1/4 c  Dry white wine
1 tb Italian seasoning
3 tb Chopped shallot (one large
-shallot)
1 1/4 c  Chopped fresh portabello
-mushrooms (2 smallish
-mushrooms)
1/2 c  Fresh peas or thawed frozen
-peas
8 oz Dried penne
Light vegetable-oil cooking
-spray
5    Garlic cloves, peeled and
-minced
1 tb Flour
12 oz Evaporated skim milk
1/8 ts Ground nutmeg
1/8 ts Crushed red pepper flakes
1/2 c  Chopped fresh basil
1/4 ts Salt, optional
5 md Black olives, thinly sliced,
-for garnish
Preheat oven to 350 degrees.

Put the sun-dried tomatoes in a bowl, add 1/2 cup boiling water and
set the bowl aside for the tomatoes to reconstitute. Fill a large pot
with water, and bring it to a boil.

Combine the chicken and the wine in a shallow baking dish. Sprinkle
the italian seasoning on top. Bake for 15-20 mins, until the meat is
no longer pink and the juices run clear.

Remove and shred the chicken, reserving the cooking juices.

Drain the sun-dried tomatoes and slice them thin.

Pour the reserved cooking juices from the chicken into a saut=82 pan.
Add the shallot, mushrooms, peas, and tomatoes. Saut=82 over low heat
for a few minutes, until the liquid has been absorbed and the
vegetables are wilted. Remove the pan from the heat and cover it to
keep the vegetables warm.

Add the penne to the boiling water in the large pot and cook over
high heat to desired doneness, 8-12 mins.

While the pasta is cooking, make the sauce. Preheat a small heavy
saucepan for about 1 minute over medium heat, then spray it twice
with the vegetable oil. Toss in the garlic and flour, then whisk in
the evaporated milk. Add the nutmeg and red pepper flakes. Whisking
constantly, bring the mixture to a boil and continue cooking for
about 5 mins, until thickened. Reduce heat to the lowest setting and
stir in basil.

Drain the cooked pasta and transfer to a warm serving bowl. Add the
chicken, vegetables, and sauce. Season with salt, if desired, and
toss. Garnish with olive slices.

Appeared during May 1994 sometime in the New York Times, National
Edition.

