Title: Pikante Poularde ( Austrian Roast Chicken )
Categories: Aust/german, Poultry, Main dish
Yield: 4 servings
6 lb Roasting chicken
3 tb Butter for sauteing
Salt and pepper
1 ea Carrot; sliced
2 ea Onions; sliced
2 tb More Butter for sauteing
1/2 c  White wine
1/4 c  Water
1 c  Mushrooms; chopped
Chicken liver & heart;
-chopped
2 tb Pimientos; chopped
1/4 c  Almonds; blanched
2 ea Onions; chopped fine
Still more Butter to saute
3 c  Freshly cooked hot rice
1 tb Flour
1 ts Tomato paste
1 pn Thyme
1 c  Chicken stock
2 tb Sherry
Salt to taste
4 ea Tomatoes; peeled, seeded and
-chopped
Even more butter
1/4 c  Raisins
4 ea Apples; peeled & quartered
Yet more butter for sauteing
4 ea Bananas
Wash and dry a fine plump 6-pound roasting chicken. Rub the inside
with 3 tablespoons butter and salt and pepper. Truss the fowl and
place it in a roasting pan.  Add 1 carrot and 2 onions, all sliced; 2
tblspns butter, 1/2 cup white wine, and 1/4 cup water to the pan.
Cover the chicken with buttered paper and roast it in a moderate oven
(325 degrees) for 1-1/2 hours. Remove the paper and conrinue roasting
the chicken, basting it occasionally, until it is very tender, about
30 minutes.
Saute' 1 cup chopped mushroooms, the chicken liver and heart,
chopped, 2 tablespoons chopped pimiento, 1/4 cup blanched almonds,
and 2 onions, chopped fine, in butter until the mixture is golden and
hot. Add it to 3 cups freshly cooked hot rice and keep the rice warm.
Remove the roasted chicken to a carving platter and keep it warm.
Skim all but 1 tablespoon of fat from the roasting pan.  Over direct
heat, blend into the juices 1 tablespoon flour and add 1 teaspoon
tomato paste and a pinch of thyme. Gradually add 1 cup chicken stock
and cook the sauce, stirring constantly, until it is smooth. Bring it
just to a boil, add 2 tablespoons Sherry and salt to taste, and
strain it.
Carve the chicken and arrange the slices in the center of a large
heated platter. Surround the chicken with the rice and garnish the
rice with 4 tomatoes, peeled, seeded, and chopped, and sauteed gently
in butter with 1/4 cup raisins. Surround the platter with 4 peeled
apples, cut in quarters and sauteed in butter, and 4 bananas, halved
and browned in butter. Serve the sauce separately.

_Gourmet's Old Vienna Cookbook_ by Lillian Langseth-Christensen
Gourmet Books, Inc. 1982   ISBN 0-933166-03-6  Typos by Jeff Pruett
Submitted By JEFF PRUETT   On   06-11-95

