Title: Pork and Jicama Rolls with Zinfandel Barbecue Sauce
Categories: Meats, Appetizers, Chilies, Alcohol
Yield: 6 servings
2 ea To 3 fresh jalapeno peppers
-or to taste
4 lb Pork spareribs, trimmed of
-excess fat
2 cl Garlic; crushed through a
-press
1/2 ts Salt
1/4 ts Freshly ground black pepper
3/4 c  Chili sauce
2 tb Cider vinegar
3/4 ts Chili powder
6 tb Robust young Zinfandel
24 ea Wide, soft lettuce leaves,
-such as Boston
6 lg Scallions; cut into Julienne
-strips, about 1 cup
3 oz Jicama, cut into thin
-julienne strips (about 1 c)
36 ea Fresh coriander leaves
- (1 small bunch)
Preheat the broiler. Place the jalapeno peppers on a broiler tray
and broil about 4 inches from the heat, turning frequently, until
blackened all over, about 5 minutes.  Put the peppers in a paper bag
for 10 minutes to loosen the skins.  Rinse off the blackened skins
under cold running water. Discard the stems, ribs, and seeds; finely
chop the peppers.
Rub the spareribs with the garlic. Season with the salt and the
black pepper. Place the ribs on a rack and broil about 4 inches from
the heat with the oven door slightly ajar, turning every 5 minutes
until evenly browned, about 20 minutes. Drain on paper towels.  Let
cool.
Meanwhile, in a heavy nonreactive saucepan, combine the chopped
jalapenos, chili sauce, cider vinegar and chili powder.  Bring to a
boil over high heat.  Reduce the heat to low and simmer until thick,
about 5 minutes. Stir in the Zinfandel and cook until hot but not
boiling. Remove the barbecue sauce from the heat.
Cut the meat off the ribs, discarding any fat and gristle. Cut
into long 1/4 inch wide strips.
Lay 12 of the lettuce leaves on a work surface.  Generously brush
1 side with the barbecue sauce. Divide the meat, scallions, jicama,
and coriander evenly among the lettuce leaves. Roll up each leaf to
enclose the filling. Then place each roll, seam-side down, inside a
second lettuce leaf Roll up and serve 2 per person.

David Rosengarten in _The Best of Food and Wine_ American Express
Pub. Co. 1990 ISBN 0-916103-11-0 Typos by Jeff Pruett
Submitted By JEFF PRUETT   On   06-20-95

