Title: Potato Pie Limoges Style
Categories: French, Potatoes, Pie/tart
Yield: 6 servings
16 oz Puff pastry, or
_enough for a double-crust,
-10-inch pie.
Nutmeg
Black pepper; freshly
_ground
1 1/2 lb New potatoes; scraped
1    Medium sized onion; finely
_chopped
4    Garlic cloves; finely chop'd
Salt
1 3/4 oz Butter; cut into pieces
1/2 c  Single cream
1/2 c  Double cream
1    Egg
Finely chopped parsley,
_chives, chervil
Roll out slightly over half of the pastry, and line a 10-inch flan
tin with a removable base. Using either the cucumber blade or a
grater, or a mandolin, slice the potatoes paper thin into a bowl of
cold water to prevent discoloration. Blanch the potatoes for 2
minutes in boiling salted water. Drain in a colander. Preheat the
oven to 230C/450F/gas mark 8. Put a layer of potatoes into the pastry
case, sprinkle them with the onion, garlic and seasoning. Repeat
until all the potatoes have been used up. Dot the butter over the
top. Mix the creams together and pour half over the potatoes. Roll
out the remaining pastry and cover the pie. Make a hole in the centre
and score the pastry lightly with a modest decoration, being careful
to press the edges of the pastry together to seal the pie. Beat the
egg into the remaining cream. Use a little of this mixture to brush
over the top of the pastry. Place the pie in the oven and bake for 30
minutes. Protect the top with a piece of buttered paper or foil, if
the pastry browns too quickly. Meanwhile, add the chopped herbs to
the remaining cream mixture. When the pie is baked, pour the cream
mixture into the centre hole using a kitchen funnel. Do this with
caution as there may not be enough room for all the mixture. Return
the pie to the oven for 5 minutes, then serve immediately.

French name: Gateau Limousin de pommes de terre. This delicious
potatoe pie of Limoges is shared by the Bourbonnais district.

Source: Jane Grigson (ed.): The World Atlas of Food. A Gourmet's
Guide to the Great Regional Dishes of the World. Mitchell Beazley
Publishers 1974. This edition: Spring Books, London 1988. ISBN 0 600
55929 7. Typed by Heiko Ebeling.
Submitted By HEIKO EBELING   On   05-28-95

