Title: Quick Tips - May-June 1995
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 info
MMMMM-----------------------NO INGREDIENTS----------------------------
To Roast Bell Peppers Easily

1. Stem, seed and halve the peppers, then lay them on a cookie sheet,
skin side up, and put them under the broiler until the skin is well
blackened, 5-8 minutes.

2. The blackened skins will peel off easily, and don't have to deal
with the mushy seeds and interior.

To Save "Broken" Hollandaise

1. When a hollandaise is heated or mixed improperly, the sauce
"breaks" and the butter comes out of the emulsion.

2. Add a couple of tablespoons of ice water with ice to the mixture
and whisk it briskly.

3. The sauce will soon have regained the proper smooth consistency.

To Squeeze Water from Cooked Greens

1. Place the cooked greens of a dinner plate and put a second plate
on top of them.

2. Squeeze the plates together over the sink (or a bowl, if you're
reserving the liquid) until the greens are dry.

To Remove Spices Easily

When cooking a soup, stew, or sauce that requires the removal of
spices, garlic, or bay leaves at the end of cooking, place the spices
in a mesh tea bag for easy removal.

To Make Even Layer Cake

1. Use a serrated knife to make a 1/8-inch cut down the side of the
cake, perpendicular to the top.

2. Cut the cake horizontally into the desired number of layers, fill
them as desired, then replace the layers realigning the vertical cut.
By putting the layers back in their original orientation to each
other, any unevenness in the way you cut them will be concealed.

To Make the Best Use of Dried Herbs

Before using dried herbs, place them in a mesh sieve and push down on
them with your fingertips as you shake the sieve back and forth over
a bowl. This process not only breaks the leaves into smaller pieces
for easier use, it also helps release their flavor.

To Test a Meat Thermometer

1. Hold the stem in boiling water for 15 seconds. Assuming you are at
sea level, the thermometer should register 212 degrees.

2. If it does not, twist the small nut beneath the thermometer with
pliers until the temperature is correct.

To Make Working with Pie Crust Easier

Place your pie plate on a cake stand when placing the pasty in it and
fluting the pastry edges. The cake stand makes it easier to turn the
pie plate around and keeps you from having to stoop over as you work.

To Pulverize Saffron

1. Place the saffron threads on a plate over a pot of boiling water
until they are dry and brittle, about 10 minutes.

2. Pulverize them with a mortar and pestle.

To Get Quick, Seedless Lemon Juice

To juice lemons directly into your work bowl without getting the
seeds into the food, squeeze them with a wooden reamer directly over
a slotted spoon or strainer. When the lemons have been squeezed,
simply lift the spoon or strainer and discard the seeds.

To Store Vidalia Onions

The high sugar content of Vidalia onions, which is what endears them
to cooks, also makes them spoil more quickly if they are stored
touching each other. Try this: place one onion in the leg of an old
but clean pair of panty hose. Tie a knot in the hose just above the
onion. Repeat this process up the entire leg of the pantyhose.

Cook's Illustrated May-June 1995
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   06-19-95

