Title: Rice-Flour Dosas with Mustard Seeds and Black Pepper
Categories: Indian, Breads
Yield: 8 pancakes
1 c  All-purpose white flour
1 c  Rice flour
1/8 ts Cayenne pepper (or more)
1/2 c  Peeled and chopped onion
1/4 c  Freshly grated coconut
1 1/4 ts Salt
1 c  Plain yogurt
-- (the sourer the better)
7 tb Vegetable oil (about)
1 ts Whole black mustard seeds
1 ts Black peppercorns
-- (coarsley crushed
-- or very coarsely ground)
In a food processor or blender, blend together white flour, rice
flour, cayenne, onion, coconut, salt, yogurt, and 3/4 cup water until
smooth. Transfer mixture to a bowl.

Heat 1 tablespoon oil in a small skillet set over medium heat and cook
mustard seeds until they begin to pop.  Add seeds and oil, along with
black pepper, to batter; stir to combine thoroughly.

Have all cooking paraphernalia ready and at hand.  You will need to
have near your skillet: 1/4 to 1/2 cup of vegetable oil in a cup or
bowl with a small spoon, a larger spoon to spread the batter, the
bowl of batter with a 1/3-cup measuring scoop/cup, a metal spatula
for turning the pancakes, and a plate on which to place the finished
dosas after they are cooked.

Pour 1 teaspoon of oil into the skillet and tilt to distribute
evenly. Heat the skillet over medium-low until oil is hot. Pour 1/3
cup of the mixture onto the center of the hot skillet.  Use the large
spoon to spread the batter in a spiral motion, until the pancake is
about 6-7 inches in diameter.  Turn pancake after 2 minutes and cook
another 2 minutes on the other side. Remove pancake to plate and
repeat with remaining batter, adding only enough additional oil to
the skillet as needed to keep surface evenly greased.  I found that
about 1/2 to 3/4 teaspoon for each pancake was plenty, but your
mileage may vary.

Serve right away, or reheat (wrapped in aluminum foil) in a 400 F.
oven for 15 minutes.

Serve with relishes, pickles, chutney, or cooked vegetables.

Adapted by Karen Mintzias from a recipe in: Madhur Jaffrey's
"World-of-the-East Vegetarian Cooking"
Submitted By KAREN MINTZIAS   On   05-21-95

