Title: Seafood Handling Guide
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 info  Whole Dressed Fish ~ To avoid bruising large fish such as salmon,
lift them carefully using both hands. Do not lift by the tail alone.
Rinse under cold running water and place directly on ice (the fish's
skin protects the flesh from direct contact with the ice); store in
refrigerator. Use within one to two days.

Fillet and Steaks ~ Rinse in cold running water, pat dry with a paper
towel and place in resealable plastic bags. Nest bags in ice; store
in coldest part of refrigerator. Use within one to two days.

Smoked Seafood ~ Always handle smoked seafood as you would fresh
seafood. Place in resealable plastic bag. Store in coldest part of
refrigerator. Keep out of contact with raw seafood.

Live Lobster, Crab and Crayfish ~ Will remain alive for up to 24
hours. Place in plastic bag with small punctures to allow air
circulation. DO NOT place directly on ice, in an airtight container
or in water. Cook the same day they are purchased.

Live Oysters, Clams and Mussels ~ Place in an open shallow container
and keep moist by covering with clean damp cloth or paper towel. DO
NOT place directly on ice, in an airtight container, in water, or
where the shellfish will come in contact with water. Use oyster
within five days; clams and mussels within two days.

Fresh-Shucked Oysters ~ Store in original container fully submerged in
their liquor (natural juices). Place in coldest part of refrigerator.
Use within five days.

Fresh or Thawed Scallops ~ Store in resealable plastic bag. Place in
coldest part of refrigerator. Use within two days.

Fresh or Thawed Shrimp ~ Rinse in cold running water, drain and place
in resealable plastic bag. Nest bag in ice; store in refrigerator.
Use within two days.

Fresh or Thawed Squid ~ Store cleaned in resealable plastic bag.
Place in coldest part of refrigerator. Use within one to two days.

Cooked Lobster, Crab or Shrimp ~ Place cooked whole crab or lobster in
rigid resealable container. Use within two to three days. ~ Place
crab or lobster meat in resealable plastic bags. Use within three to
four days. ~ Store pasteurized crab meat in refrigerator for up to
six months, unopened in original container; use within three days
after opening. ~ Keep out of contact with raw seafood.

Surimi Seafood ~ Store thawed in refrigerator for no more than 14
days. Keep out of contact with raw seafood.

Leftovers ~ Refrigerate leftover seafood within two hours of cooking.
To cool quickly and evenly, place in a covered pan no more than two
inches deep and situate in refrigerator with adequate room for
circulation of cold air. Use with one to two days.

Simply Seafood Spring 1995
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   06-19-95

