Title: SEAFOOD PITA
Categories: Sandwich, Seafood, Usenet
Yield: 2 servings
1/2 lb Scallops or Shrimp
1/4 c  Olive oil
1 md Onion
1    Garlic cloves
-(more or less to taste)
3/4 c  Mushrooms
1 1/2 c  Vegetable (such as
-eggplant or zucchini)
Salt, pepper and
-spices (to taste)
1 1/2 c  Couscous, cooked
Pita bread
Cut up the vegetables into small (about 1/2 inch) cubes.  Slice the
mushrooms.

If using shrimp, peel and de-vein the shrimp and cut into small cubes.

In a small amount of olive oil, saute the onion and the optional
garlic until the onion is soft but not quite transparent.

Heat the remaining olive oil in a skillet and add the vegetable and
mushrooms. Saute until the vegetables are almost soft. Taste and add
salt, pepper and whatever spices strike your fancy (oregano, basil
and red pepper are good). Add the scallops or shrimp and cook until
just done, about a minute or two. Scallops will turn opaque and
shrimp will turn pink. Do NOT overcook.

There should be an excess of oil and fluid.  If not, add more oil and
briefly heat. Transfer the mixture to a bowl. Add the couscous and mix
thoroughly. Chill several hours or overnight.

Stuff into the pita bread (maybe with some tomato) and serve.

NOTES:

*  Pita-Seafood Salad Sandwiches -- This recipe is more of a formula
than a recipe.  It is excellent for a cool dinner in the summer (any
time after February in Texas!)  Yield:  Serves 2-4.

*  You could substitute almost any vegetable and crab or a firm fish.
To use this for a picnic, don't stuff the pita bread until you are
about to serve it. Err on the side of too much oil, since the
couscous absorbs the oil (and a recent study says that olive oil may
be good for you).

: Difficulty:  easy to moderate.
: Time:  30 minutes preparation, overnight chilling.
: Precision:  no need to measure.

: Anita Cochran
: Astronomy Dept., The Univ.  of Texas, Austin, TX
: {noao, ut-sally, ut-ngp}!utastro!anita
: arpa:  anita@astro.UTEXAS.EDU

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

