Title: Shrimp Gumbo - House Beautiful
Categories: Soup/stew, Fish
Yield: 6 servings
2 lb Medium or large shrimp
7 c  Water
1/2 c  Vegetable oil
1 c  Flour
1 1/2 c  Finely chopped onion
1 c  Finely chopped celery ribs
1 c  Finely chopped green pepper
3 lg Garlic cloves, crushed
1 cn (28-oz) plum tomatoes,
-cut into chunks, and juice
1 ts Dried thyme
1 tb Worcestershire sauce
2 lg Or 3 small bay leaves
1/4 ts To 1/2 t cayenne
1/2 ts Freshly ground black pepper
1 1/2 c  Finely chopped scallions
1    Tightly packed cup chopped
-parsley leaves
6 c  To 8 C cooked long-grain
-white rice
Tabasco or other Louisiana
-hot sauce
Shell shrimp, cover and refrigerate. Place shells in a colander and
briefly rinse with cold running water.

In a large pot, cover shrimp shells with water and bring to a boil.
Adjust heat and simmer briskly, partially covered, for 45 minutes.

Strain the shrimp stock through a sieve. Measure out 6 C  stock. If
there isn't enough stock, add water; if there is more than 6 C, boil
to reduce slightly. Reserve.

In a 6-to 8-quart stockpot, cook oil and flour over low heat, stirring
frequently for about 1 hour, or until the mixture has turned into a
rich brown roux.

As soon as the roux is the right color, add onion, celery and green
pepper; the vegetables will turn the roux a deep mahogany brown.
Cover the pot and let the vegetables sweat for 10 minutes, stirring
occasionally. Add the gar- lic and cook, covered, for 2 minutes.

Uncover, add shrimp stock, tomatoes and juice to the stockpot. Turn
heat to high and stir until the liquid comes to a boil and becomes
almost smooth. Add thyme, Worcestershirc sauce, bay leaves, cayenne
and black pepper. Cover pot and simmer over low heat for 30 minutes.

Add half the scallions and half the parsley to the pot and simmer,
uncovered, for 30 minutes.

Before serving, remove bay leaves, heat gumbo to the boiling point,
add shrimp, stir well and reduce heat to a simmer. Cook for about 10
minutes, partially covered and stirring occasionally, until shrimp
are cooked through.

Mound rice in the center of soup bowls, ladle hot gumbo and shrimp
around rice and top with remaining parsley and scallions. Serve with
Tabasco or other Louisiana hot sauce. Serves 6 to 8.

House Beautiful/February/94  Scanned & fixed by DP & GG
Submitted By LAWRENCE KELLIE   On    6-08-95

