Title: South Indian Dosas
Categories: Breads, Indian
Yield: 8 pancakes
1/2 c  Urad dal
1 c  Long-grain rice
3/4 ts Salt
3/4 ts Ground cumin seeds
1/2 c  Vegetable oil (about)
Pick over and wash urad dal.  Soak in 2 cups water for 8 hours.

Wash rice and soak in 3 cups water for 8 hours.

Drain dal; blend in food processor or blender for 2 minutes, scraping
down sides occasionally.  Add 2 tablespoons water and process another
minute. Add another 2 tablespoons water and process again for one
minute. Continue adding water until you've reached 3/4 cup total, and
mixture is light and fluffy.  Place in a bowl and set aside.

Drain rice; blend in food processor or blender, adding 3/4 of water 2
tablespoons at a time, until mixture resembles fine grains of
semolina. Combine rice mixture with dal mixture.  Cover and leave in
a warm place to ferment, 16-20 hours.

The fermented batter should be frothy.  Add the salt and cumin and
stir to combine.

Have all cooking paraphernalia ready and at hand.  You will need to
have near your skillet: 1/4 to 1/2 cup of vegetable oil in a cup or
bowl with a small spoon, a larger spoon to spread the batter, the
bowl of batter with a 1/2-cup measuring scoop/cup, a metal spatula
for turning the pancakes, and a plate on which to place the finished
dosas after they are cooked.

Pour 1 teaspoon of oil into the skillet and tilt to distribute
evenly. Heat the skillet over medium-low until oil is hot. Pour 1/2
cup of the mixture onto the center of the hot skillet. Use the large
spoon to spread the batter in a spiral motion, until the pancake is
about 6-7 inches in diameter.  Turn pancake after 2 minutes and cook
another 2 minutes on the other side, until lightly browned. Remove
pancake to plate and repeat with remaining batter, adding only enough
additional oil to the skillet as needed to keep surface evenly
greased.  I found that about 1/2 to 3/4 teaspoon for each pancake was
plenty, but your mileage may vary.

Serve with relishes, pickles, chutney, or cooked vegetables.

Adapted by Karen Mintzias from a recipe in: Madhur Jaffrey's
"World-of-the-East Vegetarian Cooking"
Submitted By KAREN MINTZIAS   On   05-21-95

