Title: Spicy Thai Chicken with Cilantro Pesto (Cook's C.H 4/6)+
Categories: Bbq/grill, Information, Poultry
Yield: 8 servings
2 tb Ginger, peeled, finely
-minced fresh ginger
8    Garlic cloves, finely minced
2    Shallots, finely minced
2    Green onions, finely minced
1/2 c  Dry sherry
4 tb Hoisin sauce
1/4 c  Light soy sauce
2 tb White vinegar
1 tb Dark sesame oil
2    3 lb. chickens or 6 lbs.
-chicken drums and thighs
MMMMM-----------------------CILANTRO PESTO----------------------------
2 c  Cilantro leaves, loosely
-packed
1 c  Italian parsley leaves,
-loosely packed
3/4 c  Roasted salted pumpkin seeds
1/2 c  Freshly grated Parmesan
-cheese (about 1 1/2 oz.)
1/2 c  Fresh lime juice
1 lg Jalopeno chili, seeded
1    Garlic clove
3/4 c  Olive oil
Salt and freshly ground
-pepper to taste
Method;

1. Using a vegetable peeler, peel fresh ginger. In a mini or regular
food processor, finely mince ginger, garlic, shallots and green
onions together. Combine with remaining ingredients, EXCEPT chicken.

2. Gently loosen chicken skin. Place chicken in shallow sided dish.
Spoon marinade mixture under the skin. Pat skin back in place, spoon
remaining marinade over chicken and marinate in the fridge for at
least 2 hours.

(make cilantro pesto while the chicken is marinating, recipe
follows.)

3. To cook: Prepare grill. starting with skin side down, grill chicken
until internal temperature reaches 165 degrees (use instant read
thermometer.) Turn several times to insure even coloring and cooking*.
Serve with Cilantro pesto, and herbed cous cous or rice.

*If desired, roast skin side up in a preheated 425 degree oven for 30
minutes, or until juices run clear.

CILANTRO PESTO:

1. Puree first 7 ingredients in blender or processor, stipping
occasionally to scrape down sides of container.

2. With machine running, gradually add oil and blend until smooth.
Season with salt and pepper to taste, bearing in mind that the
Parmesan can be salty.

(can be prepared 3 days ahead. Press plastic wrap onto surface of
pesto. Cover tightly and refrigerate. Bring to room temperature
before serving.)

Note: the pumpkin seeds are also known as pepitas. Available at Latin
American markets, natural food stores and many supermarkets.

Recipes from cooking class at Cook's of Crocus Hill in St. Paul, MN

MM format courtesy Mary Riemerman
Submitted By MARY RIEMERMAN   On   06-17-95

