Title: Strawberry Basketweave Cake
Categories: Cake/cookie
Yield: 12 servings
2 c  Whipping cream
3 tb Sugar
1 tb Vanilla
Basic Yellow Cake
2 pt Strawberries
MMMMM---------------------BASIC YELLOW CAKE--------------------------
1 c  Butter -- softened
2 c  Sugar
5    Eggs
3 c  Flour -- sifted
1 tb Baking powder
1 1/4 c  Milk
1 ts Vanilla
Whip cream until soft peaks form. Add sugar and vanilla and beat until
stiff peaks form. Cover 1 layer Basic Yellow Cake with some of whipped
cream. Arrange layer of strawberries over whipped cream, reserving
remainder for topping. Top with remaining cake layer.

Ice sides in basketweave design with remaining whipped cream as
follows: Fit pastry bag with basket-weave tube or small star tube.
Fill with whipped cream. Pipe vertical line of cream down side of
cake. Pipe series of short horizontal bars across vertical line,
leaving 1-bar-wide space between. Pipe second vertical line against
ends of short bars.

Again, pipe horizontal bars across this line, fitting between first
set of bars. Repeat, alternating vertical and horizontal bars until
surface is covered with basket-weave pattern.

Cut off stem ends of remaining strawberries. Stand strawberries close
together on top of cake to create illusion of basket filled with
berries.

BASIC YELLOW CAKE - In large bowl, cream butter.

Gradually add sugar, beating well. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well
after each addition. Combine flour and baking powder. Add to creamed
mixture alternately with milk, beginning and ending with flour
mixture. Stir in vanilla. Pour batter into 2 greased and floured
9-inch round cake pans.

Bake at 350 degrees 25 minutes, or until wood pick inserted in center
comes out clean. Cool in pans 10 minutes. Turn out onto racks and cool
completely.

Each serving contains about: 579 calories; 318 mg sodium; 187 mg
cholesterol; 33 grams fat; 65 grams carbohydrates; 8 grams protein;
0.37 gram fiber.

Source: Mary Aqleh and Jim Ward, partners in Perfectly Sweet Bakery in
Eagle Rock, CA via their baking classes for the "baking impaired".

A hint from the class - ".. if a recipe calls for eggs at room
temperature, don't use them straight from the refrigerator. Cold egg
whites don't beat to the proper volume." Presented by: Barbara
Hansen, Times Staff Writer, L.A. Times article, "Cake College",
11/10/94, page H21. "Piping whipped cream onto the cake in a woven
design makes it look like a pretty basket. If this seems too
challenging, just swirl the cream on like regular frosting."

:
Recipe By

Date: 06-16-95 (159) Fido:
From: Dan Klepach
Cooking

