Title: Supremes De Volaille Polignac (Chicken Breasts)
Categories: Poultry, Salsa/sauce
Yield: 6 servings
3    Chicken breasts
-skinned and halved
1 ts Lemon juice, fresh
-strained
Salt
4 tb Butter, clarified
White pepper, freshly ground
1 tb Butter, unsalted
2 tb Butter, unsalted
-chilled and cut into
-1/2 inch bits
2 tb Lemon juice, fresh, strained
1/4 lb Mushrooms, fresh
-trimmed, wiped with a
-dampened towel, stems
-removed and both caps
-and stems cut into 1/8
-inch wide julienne strips
1 lg Truffle, black
-Thinly peeled, sliced
-1/8-inch thick, and cut
-into 1/8-inch wide strips
1 1/2 tb Flour
1 c  White chicken stock Or:
1 c  Chicken stock, canned
-chilled then degreased
1 c  Heavy cream
Preheat oven to 450*F. Remove the breast bones from the chicken
pieces. With paper towels pat the chicken breasts completely dry and
rub them on both sides with 1/2 teaspoon of lemon juice, a little
salt and a few grindings of white pepper. In a 12-inch saute pan or
heavy skillet with an ovenproof handle, warm the clarified butter
over moderate heat for about 10 seconds.  Add the chicken and,
turning frequently with tongs or a slotted spatula, saute until the
pieces are firm and white, but do not allow them to brown. Remove the
pan from the heat and cover it with a lid or foil. Then cook the
chicken breasts in the middle of the oven for 7 to 8 minutes, or
until they are tender and show no resistance when pierced deeply with
the point of a small skewer.  Arrange the chicken on an ovenproof
platter. Reduce the oven heat to the lowest point.  Place the pan
over moderate heat on top of the stove and add the mushroom and
truffle strips and 2 tablespoons of lemon juice.  Stirring
constantly, cook for 3 minutes. With a slotted spoon, remove the
mushrooms and truffle strips from the pan and scatter them over the
chicken breasts. Cover the platter with foil and keep the chicken
warm in the oven while you prepare the sauce. With a wire whisk, stir
1 tablespoon of butter into the liquid remaining in the pan. When the
butter melts, add the flour and continue to whisk over moderate heat
until it is completely absorbed. Pour in the chicken stock and still
whisking constantly, cook over high heat until the sauce comes to a
boil and thickens lightly.  Reduce the heat to the lowest possible
point and simmer for 8 to 10 minutes.  Then pour in the cream in a
slow, thin stream and, stirring frequently, continue to simmer until
the sauce is reduced to about 1 cup.  Remove the pan from the heat
and swirl in the 2 tablespoons of chilled butter bits and the
remaining 1/2 teaspoon of lemon juice. Taste for seasoning. Strain
the sauce through a fine sieve directly over the chicken to mask it
completely. Serve at once.

