Title: THE 1986 USENET COOKBOOK, part 2 of 2
Categories: Information, Usenet
Yield: 1 file
USENET recipes
INTRODUCTION 27 Jun 1986:  The new electronic interdependence
recreates the world in the image of a global village.  (Marshall
McLuhan, 1967)

INTRODUCTION:  This is a community cookbook, from an invisible
worldwide electronic community.  Like all community cookbooks, it has
the favorite recipes of the members of the community, suitably edited
and organized. The USENET Cookbook is a collection of the favorite
recipes of USENET readers worldwide.

USENET:  USENET is the network by which Unix computer users talk to
each other.  It is a worldwide net, made from computer-to-computer
telephone links, linking some 60,000 people at 2,000 sites in 25
countries. Besides serving an obvious technical and scientific
purpose, USENET is also a medium for linking worldwide social groups
of people who share common interests.  The network group of people
who like to cook is called net.cooks.  As an experiment in
interactive electronic publication, the members of net.cooks decided
to make a cookbook of recipes from their "global village".  Brian
Reid of DEC Western Research in Palo Alto, California, wrote the
software and organized the online publication of the cookbook.

The USENET Cookbook is a database and not just a book.  The paper
copy that you are holding was printed from a copy of the online
database at some USENET site, but even as you are reading it, new
recipes are being added to that database.

The USENET Cookbook is an online database distributed with the
intention that it be published as a book. The USENET Cookbook is
distributed with software that enables every user to make his own
customized edition of it, leaving out the recipes that he has no
interest in, and perhaps adding a few of his own that he hasn't yet
submitted to the network. There will be many different versions and
editions of it, all with the same title, and all copyrighted. Every
user can choose whether to print the recipes in imperial units (cups
and spoons) or in metric units.

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

: Converted to MealMaster format March 1995 by Vicki Braun
: Ft. Walton Beach, FL  (USA)
: vbraun@fwb.gulf.net

