Title: THE 1986 USENET COOKBOOK, part 1 of 2
Categories: Information, Usenet
Yield: 1 file
USENET recipes
(Recipes from the global village; July 1993)  A collection of recipes
by the readers of USENET, from the newsgroup mod.recipes.

It is a "moderated" newsgroup, which means that everything published
in it must be approved by the moderator (editor).  Readers submit
recipes electronically by mailing them to the editor.  He edits for
style, form and content, and performs conversion to or from metric
units if necessary.  The finished recipes are published in weekly
batches, which are sent from Palo Alto every Thursday.

: Edited by Brian K. Reid
: Palo Alto, California, U.S.A.
: ihnp4!decwrl!reid   reid@decwrl.dec.com
: Copyright (C) USENET Community Trust

Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct
commercial advantage, the USENET copyright notice, title and
publication date appear, and notice is given that copying is by
permission of the USENET Community Trust.

PROCEDURE:  To participate, you will need to get mod.recipes at your
site. A package of software for using it is posted from time to time
into mod.recipes. Get that software and install it on your machine;
it will enable you to save recipes easily and to print cookbooks from
them.

To submit a recipe to the USENET Cookbook, mail its text to the
newsgroup moderator, ihnp4!decwrl!mod-recipes (uucp) or
mod-recipes@decwrl.DEC.COM (internet).  The news software at most
sites will do this automatically if you try to post to mod.recipes.

It's important that you tell us where you got the recipe from.  It's
ok if you cribbed it from a book or magazine or newspaper, but if you
copy the words that you found there, you have probably violated a
copyright. Copyright law is complex, and only a lawyer can reliably
advise you on whether or not you are violating it, but in general if
you rewrite a recipe, in your own words, even if you don't change the
formula, then you are not infringing the copyright by submitting that
recipe to the network. The copyright is on the words that explain the
recipe, and not the recipe itself.

COPYRIGHT:  The entire USENET Cookbook is copyright by the USENET
Community Trust, which is a California organization formed for the
purpose of holding the copyright.  The purpose of this copyright is
to prevent commercialization of the Cookbook. Read the copyright
notice on the title page.

Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

