Title: Tomato Jam
Categories: Vegetables, Can/preserv
Yield: 1 servings
Canning jars -- * see note
1 lb Fresh tomatoes
1 lb Sugar
2 oz Ginger root
1    Cinnamon stick
1    Lemon rind -- grated
** see directions for
** instructions on
** preparing a boiling water
** bath
* Use decorative jelly or jam canning jars that can go into a boiling
water bath safely. Read manufacturer's directions for this
information and also how to sterilize jars.

Use red, green or yellow tomatoes. Make sure they are of good
quality. 1. Peel, core and slice tomatoes. Cover with sugar and let
stand for 12 hours at room temperature. 2. Strain off the juice and
boil it until the syrup falls from the spoon in heavy drops. 3. Add
the tomatoes, grated lemon or orange rind and the ginger root and
cinnamon stick. 4. Cook until the jam thickens. Put into hot sterile
jars and process in a boiling water bath for 5 minutes.

BOILING WATER BATH: Use a canner made especially for water baths, or
use this method. You will need a heavy pan, deep and wide, so that
you can put a rack on the bottom. You will need it deep enough to put
the jars in and have room to cover the tops of jars with at least 2
inches of water. Water will be boiling so make sure the pan is tall
enough. 1. Fill the canner, or pan, half full with hot -- not boiling
~- water. Place rack in bottom. Put filled jars in canner so that
they do not touch each other or the side of the pan. 2. Add hot water
so that the jars are covered with as least 1-2 inches of water. 3.
Cover and start timing when water reaches a ROLLING boil.

* Do not skimp on processing time. This is very important to ensure
that all bacteria are killed. Increase processing time by 2 minutes
for each 1000 feet above sea level.

4. Using tongs, remove jars from water bath and place on a rack away
from drafts. Do not tighten lids more at this time since it could
break the seal you already have. 5. After 12-24 hours test the seal.
The lid will be concave when sealed properly. You may reprocess the
jars within 24 hours by putting on new lids and repeating the process.

: Jo Anne Merrill
Recipe By

Date: 06-06-95 (159) Fido:
From: Marjorie Scofield
Cooking

