Title: Traditional Cholent
Categories: Meats, Poultry, Jewish
Yield: 8 servings
MMMMM--------------------TRADITIONAL CHOLENT-------------------------
1 c  Barley, washed, checked,
-soaked overnight
x  Salt and pepper to taste
2/3 c  Lima beans, washed, checked,
-soaked overnight
6    (to 8) Potatoes, peeled and
-quartered
2 1/2 lb Flanken or chuck meat
--OR--
1    Whole Chicken
Since cooking is forbidden on Shabbat, cholent was innovated by Jews
in many countries; a Shabbat noon hot-meal tradition, prepared the day
before, then left to cook overnight, over covered low heat, in a 225F
oven, or in a crockpot. In Eastern Europe, cholent was taken to the
town baker before Shabbat to be kept warm in his oven through the
night. A large dumpling, called kugel or kishke, was included on top
of the cholent. This delicious stew-type dish, which includes meat or
chicken, potatoes, barley and beans cooks slowly while its flavors
blend, spreading a delightful aroma throughout the house. In Israel
chicken, which is more economical. lower in cholesterol, and more
readily available, is used instead of meat. A whole chicken placed on
top of the other ingredientswill remain intact throughout the night.

Place all ingredients in a pot, with potatoes and meat or chicken on
top. Add water to cover, plus 1 inch. Bring to a boil, cover and
simmer over low heat for 1 hour. Do not stir (so that chicken will
remain whole). Place pot on a covered stove-top (blech) over low heat
to cook overnight; or place in 225F oven until lunchtme the next day;
or put cholent ingredients into a slow-cooking crockpot, cook on high
heat for nearly an hour, then cook overnight on low heat.

To add a richer brown color and more flavor, start by carmelizing some
sugar: In a pot, add 2 tablespoons of sugar to 2 tablespoons of oil.
Cook slowly over medium-low heat until mixture turns a deep brown,
then immediately add a cup of water to stop browning. Place Fluffy
Kishke on top of cholent. Serves 8-10

VARIATION: Instead of carmelizing sugar, add 6 pitted prines or 2
tablespoons of honey to cholent.

From: Classic Kosher Cooking by Sara Finkel Transcribed By: S.
Lefkowitz

Submitted By SAM LEFKOWITZ   On   06-08-95

