Title: Tutti-Frutti (Lady Baltimore) Cake`
Categories: Breakfast, Cake/cookie
Yield: 20 servings
12 tb Unsalted Butter Or
Margarine
2 c  Sugar
3/4 ts Vanilla
3/4 ts Lemon Extract
3/4 ts Almond Extract
3 c  Cake Flour -- sifted
3 ts Baking Powder
3/4 ts Salt
1/2 c  Milk
1/2 c  Water
6 lg Egg Whites
Chocolate Filling-----
1 1/2    Unsweetened Chocolate
Squares
1/2 c  Light Brown Sugar
1/2 c  Sugar
ds Salt
3 tb Evaporated Milk Or Heavy
Cream
1 tb Butter
ds Cream Of Tartar
1 ts Vanilla
1/4 ts Lemon Extract -- optional
Caramel Filling-----
3/4 c  Brown Sugar
1/2 c  Sugar
ds Salt
1/2 c  Evaporated Milk Or Heavy
Cream
1 tb Unsalted Butter
Tutti-Frutti White Frosting
2 c  Sugar
1/2 c  Water
2 lg Egg Whites
1 ts Vanilla
1/2 ts Cream Of Tartar
pn Salt
1/2 c  Chopped Dates
1    Orange, Grated Peel Of
1/2    Lemon, Grated Peel Of
1/2 c  Raisins
1/2 c  Chopped Nuts
4    To 5 Maraschino Cherries --
-chopped
Cake: Using a knife, break up the butter to soften it. Gradually stir
in the sugar, and cream together until the mixture is light and
fluffy. Add the vanilla, lemon, and almond extracts. Sift the flour.
Add the baking powder and the salt. Sift 3 times. Add gradually to
the butter mixture, alternating with the milk and the water. Beat
after each addition until smooth. Then beat with an electric mixer
for about 20 mins, or until silky smooth. Beat the egg whites until
stiff. Fold the egg whites into the cake batter. Spoon into 4 greased
and floured 8" cake pans. Bake in a 350 F oven for about 25 mins,
until the cakes spring away from the pans.

Chocolate Filling: Combine the chocolate, brown and white sugars,
salt, and milk in a small saucepan. Cook, stirring constantly, about
5 mins, until thick and smooth. Remove from heat and beat in the
butter. Add the cream of tartar, vanilla, and lemon extract (if
desired), beating until the mixture cools and stiffen. When the cake
is cool, spread over the top of the first layer.

Caramel Filling: Combine the sugars, salt, and milk in a saucepan.
Cook, stirring constantly, until the mixture begins to boil. Let boil
until it is thick enough to spread well. Then remove from the heat,
add the butter, and beat until the mixture cools and stiffens. Spread
on the top of the second layer of the cake.

Tutti-Frutti White or Lady Baltimore Frosting: Combine the sugar,
water, egg whites, vanilla, cream of tartar, and salt in the top of a
double boiler over boiling water. Beat with an electric mixer
constantly for 7 mins, or until frosting is the correct consistency
for spreading. In a separate bowl, combine the dates, orange and
lemon peel, raisins, nuts, and cherries. Add half the frosting and
combine well. Spread thickly over the third layer of the cake.

Then assemble the cake, putting the unfrosted fourth layer on the top.
Spread the white frosting that remains over the top and down the
sides, covering the previous fillings so that an all-white cake
greets the eye. This cake will keep several weeks in the refrigerator.

: An American Folklife Cookbook - ISBN 0-8052-3914-6
Recipe By

Date: 05-27-95 (159) Fido:
From: Dan Klepach
Cooking

