Title: Uncle Dirty Dave's Chili
Categories: Chili, Meats, Soup/stew, Chilies
Yield: 1 big batch
5 lb Beef
2 lb Lean pork
3    Fist sized onions
2    Bell peppers
6    Ancho peppers, seeded
7    Whole chili (red) peppers
4 tb Kraft beef base (no more,
-this is very salty) *
2 md Bay leaves
1 cn Old El Paso chopped green
-chiles
1 lg Tomato, blanched, peeled,
-seeded and diced fine,
-(1/4-inch)
1 cn V8 or house brand veggie
-juice
4 tb Cilantro
-OR-
2 tb Dried oregano
4 tb Garlic powder
1/4 c  Cumin
1 c  Strong coffee
-OR-
1 tb Nescafe or Yuban instant
-coffee
2 tb Hershey's cocoa
1    Stalk celery with leaves
1/4 ts Cinnamon (use caution)
2 c  Chilli powder (I've used
-Mexene, Chilli Man, Golden
-Age, Pocohantas, and Kraft
-with good results)
NOTE:  ALL INGREDIENT MEASUREMENTS ARE APPROXIMATE!

* You can substitute Swansons or College Inn Beef Broth.  Use low-salt
variety if the beef broth is too salty.

I use a 2 pan method for my chilli.  A cast iron 10" skillet for
browning the meat and a 12" Dutch oven for cooking the brew.  Put V8
juice, coffee, bay leaf, beef base, garlic, cumin and chilli powder
in Dutch oven.  Bring to a boil and reduce to simmer.  Stir in cocoa
and let simmer.

Brown meat in skillet and transfer to chilli pot as it is ready.
Stire into the liquid as you add the meat.  Cut the base from celery
stalk and cut into 3" pieces.  Peel and quarter onions.  Crumble
Anchos into blender, add onion and celery to fill blender loosely.
Add enough hot water to let blender work easily and operate until all
ingredients are chopped fine.  Repeat until all onion and celery is
chopped, pouring result into chilli pot.  Add chopped green chiles
and whole chili peppers, stir, and let simmer stirring just often
enough to prevent sticking.

Seed, de-stem and de-vein the bell peppers and dice to 1/4".  Add
peppers and tomato chunks to brew.  Let simmer for 30 minutes more.
If mixture is getting too thick, add some beef broth or V8 juice
(your choice).  Sample for taste.  If not fiery enough for your
taste, add red (cayenne) pepper using caution....that is, use small
quantities and let the chilli simmer for a few minutes before you
re-sample for "heat".  It is very easy to get a brew that's too hot
for any sane person to eat if you get too free with the red pepper.
(My kid brother is *not* entirely sane.  He eats habanaros straight
up).  If you feel that the mix needs more cumin or garlic add some
during this time.  Once again, use care.  We're looking for a
delicate balance here and it's easy to overload.  Begin fishing the
bay leaves and whole chili peppers from the pot as they surface while
you're stirring.  Remember, this is a courtesy to your guests but not
totally necessary.  Just remember that a guest who bites into a red
pepper may never trust your cooking again.

Cook chilli until you think it's done.  5 minutes before you remove it
from the fire, stir in the 1/4 teaspoon of cinnamon.  The cinnamon
will blend the flavors in your chilli and smooth off any rough edges.
It will *not* add a cinnamon flavor to your pot...unless you get too
much.  1/4 teaspoon is safe.

If you have beans with your chilli, heat them in a separate pot and
mix them in the serving bowls.  I recommend Brooks Chili Hot, Bush's
HOT Chili, or Lady Lee Chili Beans.  These brands will not alter
substantially the flavor of your pot of chilli.  Kidney beans on the
other hand will chill things out and add a "different" flavor.

NOTES:  About the meat - sometimes I use ground meat.."Chef's Grind"
or coarse ground if I can get it.  Sometimes I get frisky and dice
the meat by hand to 1/4' cubes.  If you are ambitious and dice the
meat, do a partial freeze on it first.  This will stiffen the meat
and make it much eariser to work with.

About the fat - when cooking this at home, I skim the excess fat from
the pot and reserve it in a separate container.  Later, I clarify the
fat in 225 degree oven and save it to pop popcorn or cook Buffalo
wings.  BTW - Buffalo wings cooked in chilli fat need nothing else
added to the mixture.
When cooking away from at chilli cook-offs or at a friend's home, I
strain the meat as it comes from the frying pan.  This removes the
excess fat whilst leaving enough to carry the flavors.  If you use
round or sirloin steak and/or pork loin well trimmed for your meat
you may not need to strain or skim.

BTW - the pork is not essential.  It's just that I happen to like it.
If for whatever reason (dietary restrictions, allergies, etc.) you
choose not to use anything but beef, increase the amount of beef by
the amount of pork left out.

