Title: CARIBBEAN RICE WITH CHICKEN (ARROZ CON POLLO)
Categories: Rice, Poultry
Yield: 6 Servings
SEASONING MIX--- -- grind in
Mortar
2    Peppercorns
2    Cloves garlic -- peeled
1 ts Oregano
4 1/2 ts Salt
2 ts Olive oil
1 ts Vinegar -- or fresh lime
Juice
1 tb Vegetable oil
1 oz Salt pork -- washed and
Diced
2 oz Cured ham -- diced
1    Onion -- chopped
1    Green pepper -- seeded and
Chopped
3    Sweet chile peppers --
Seeded and chopped
1    Tomato -- chopped
6    Fresh cilantro leaves
1/2 ts Salt
10    Olives -- pimiento stuffed
1 tb Capers
1/4 c  Tomato sauce
1/2 ts Saffron
3 c  Rice
1 cn Green peas
Chicken broth
1 cn Pimientos
I love Puerto Rican Food!... It's usually simple, yet rich with lots
of cilantro and garlic!!.  Enclosed are examples of 4 dishes that can
be simplified to taste. I always add mucho mas cilantro, peppers and
garlic with fresh ingredients (I never used canned foods).

I prefer to also add a pinch of red chili powder just to make it
interesting (not a traditional ingredient in Puerto Rican food).

Wash chicken pieces, dry and rub with Seasoning Mix. Set in
refrigerator for several hours or overnight.

In heavy kettle, brown pork and ham in oil.  Reduce to moderate heat,
add chicken pieces, and cook for 5 minutes.

Reduce heat to low, add onion, peppers, tomato, and cilantro, and
saute for 10 minutes, stirring occasionally.

Meanwhile, drain liquid from can of peas into a measuring cup and add
enough water or chicken broth to measure 2 1/2 cups if regular rice is
used, or 3 1/2 cups if long grain rise is used. Reserve peas.

Add to kettle salt, olives, capers, tomato sauce, saffron, and rice,
and mix over moderate heat for 2 minutes.

Add reserved liquid to kettle, mix well, and cook, uncovered over
moderate heat until rice is dry.

With a fork, turn rice from bottom to top.

Cover kettle and cook over low heat for 40 minutes. Halfway during
this cooking period, turn rice over again.

Add peas, mix rice once more, cover, and cook for 15 minutes over low
heat.

Garnish rice with pimientos.

Tammie K Nakamura <nakamurt@UCSU.COLORADO.EDU>

: From Puerto Rican Cookery   ISBN 0-88289-411-0
Recipe By

From: Western Mexican Cookbook

