Title: CARIBBEAN PUMPKIN SOUP - MARTHA STEWART LIVIN
Categories: Soup/stews, Caribbean
Yield: 6 Servings
2 md Cloves garlic, peeled
1 md Onion, peeled and quartered
1 lg Jalapeno pepper, seeded and
-coarsely chopped
2    Stalks celery, cut into
-2-inch lengths
3 lg Carrots, peeled and sliced
-1/4 inch thick
2 tb Olive oil
1 3/4 lb Kabocha squash (about half a
-small squash), peeled,
-seeded, and cut
-into 1-inch dice
3 c  Low-salt chicken stock,
-skimmed
1    Bay leaf
2 ts Curry powder
1 ts Turmeric
Pinch of cayenne pepper
1 1/2 ts Salt
Freshly ground pepper
1    Ripe plantain, cut into
-chunks
1/4 c  Shelled raw pumpkin seeds
-(pepitas)
2 tb Chopped flat-leaf parsley
1 tb Creme fraiche (optional)
1. Place garlic in a food processor and pulse until finely chopped.
Add onion and pulse until finely chopped. Set aside. Place jalapeno
in food processor and pulse until finely chopped. Add celery and
pulse until finely chopped. Set aside. Place carrots in food
processor and pulse until finely chopped.

2. Heat 1 T of the olive oil in a medium stockpot over medium heat.
Add the garlic and onion and saute, stirring occasionally, until
onion is translucent, about 6 minutes. Add jalapeno, celery, and
carrots and saute for 5 minutes. Add the squash, chicken stock, bay
leaf, curry, turmeric, cayenne, 1 t of the salt, and pepper to taste,
and bring to a boil. Reduce heat and add the plantain. Cook until the
vegetables are tender, about 8 minutes.

3. Meanwhile, in a small saute pan, heat remaining T of olive oil over
medium-high heat. Add pumpkin seeds and remaining 1/2 t salt and cook
for about 30 seconds, shaking pan constantly to prevent burning,
until all the seeds have popped. Remove from heat and add parsley.

4. Place 2 C of the cooked vegetables and about 1/2 C of the liquid
in the bowl of a food processor and puree until smooth. Stir puree
back into the soup. Adjust seasonings, and stir in the creme fraiche,
if desired. Garnish with roasted pumpkin seeds.

Martha Stewart Living/October/94 Scanned & edited by Di Pahl & <gg>

