Title: CAROL'S BREAD & BUTTER PICKLES
Categories: Canning
Yield: 1 Servings
12 md Cucumbers; sliced *
5    Onions; sliced thin
1/4 c  Pickling salt
Brine:
3 c  Sugar
4 1/2 ts Celery seed
3 c  Cider vinegar
4 1/2 ts Mustard seed
2 ts Curry powder
2 c  Water
Recipe by: CAROL KOSOWSKI (YPZW00A) * (not too old as the older ones
have too many seeds in them). In a large roasting pan,layer the
cukes, then the onions,back to the cukes and the onions again
sprinkling with the pickling salt in between the layers. let soak for
3 hours and then drain the juice and discard. Next you make a brime
for the pickles and onions. 3 cups of sugar, 4 1/2 teaspoons mustard
seed, 4 1/2 tsp.celery seed, 2 tsp.curry powder, 3 cups cider vinegar,
2    cups water. Heat this to boiling and then add the drained
cukes and onions and simmer on low for10 min only.(hummm, it starts
to smell up the kitchen and you just want to eat them right away).
Now having hot sterilized large canning jars, fill to cover all the
pickles and onions to the top. Put a bread knife into each jar to
bring up the air in the liquid and of course don't leave it there,
take the knife out and put on the caps and seal.  You may hear the
seal take place with a pop and you can see that the cover seems to
suck in and it should hold that way for a tight seal.I turn the jars
over and let stand til cool. To check a tight seal you can push down
on the top of the cover and if it does not snap up after you let go,
then you have a tight seal.  If the cover does pop right up after
pushing down and releasing then you have a poor seal, You could just
eat those pickles now. yumm yumm.don'tput it away to store. You can
also draw some water in a large bowl or pan or even in the sink and
take each cooled jar and imerge the top into the water and check for
bubbles coming from the top. If you see bubbles coming from the lid
then you have a bad seal. Doesn't happen very often. Store the jars
in a dark cool place.as far as how long you can keep them, you could
keep them up to one year because of the vinegar will protect the
pickles but I doubt it very much after you open one jar, it would
last one year. Here is a pickle recipe I would love to share with you
all.It is an old one I have had for over 30 years. CAROL KOSOWSKI
(YPZW00A)

