Title: CARRIBEAN SUNSET JELL-O
Categories: Alcohol, Beverages
Yield: 1 Servings
1 lg Box Orange Jell-O; or two
-small boxes
2 c  Boiling Water
1 1/2 c  Cold Water
1/2 c  Rum; * see note
-----Variation-----
1 sm Box Orange Jell-O; or Cherry
-Jell-O
1 c  Boiling Water
1 c  Cold Water; (package
-directions)
* (I used "Cockspur" dark rum from Barbados, West Indies.)

Little "souffle cups" or Dixie Cups, Bathroom-size

Make up the Orange Jell-O, with the rum, in the usual way. (Dissolve
the Jell-O thoroughly in the boiling water, etc.)

Distribute into individual servings.

Make up the Orange Jell-O without the rum, in the usual way.

Distribute into individual servings.

Let all of the Orange Jell-O set for about 1-2 hours. (It helps if
you mark them specially, or put them in different cups, or on
different trays or different refrigerators or something. I put an X
on the non-alc. cups.)

Mix up the Cherry Jell-O. Let it cool, about half an hour or so.

Make sure the Orange Jell-O (both with and without rum) have set
enough not to slosh when you wiggle them. Pull a tray out of the
fridge (I assume you set the cups on trays!) and carefully pour a
little bit of Cherry Jell-O on top of each serving. Just enough to
cover them. Then put them back in the fridge, and do the next batch.
(Do the rum ones first, then the nonalcoholic.)

If you do it just right, there should be enough cherry Jell-O to make
a little red layer on top of each orange Jell-O cup. If you
miscalculate, well, you'll probably have a bunch of regular ordinary
orange Jell-O, and the kids will still be happy with them. (Plus
they'll be easier to tell apart.)

Put it all back in the fridge, let 'em set, serve the next day.
Voila, you have regular and unleaded (atomic and steam-powered?)
versions, and (apart from the rum flavor) they'll be similar.
Everyone will be happy. That's the theory, anyway...

Good luck! I'm taking them to a club meeting tonight, we'll see if it
goes over well..

NOTES : This makes a large amount of alcoholic Jell-O, and a small
amount of matching non-alcoholic Jell-O Recipe by: "C. Baden"
<hazel@NETCOM.COM>

