Title: CELERY ROOT RAVIOLI WITH CELERY/MUSHROOM FILL
Categories: Cooking liv, Italian
1/2 c  diced carrot
Yield: 4 Servings
1/2 c  diced celery
1/2 c  diced Spanish onion
6 ts olive oil
2 lg celery roots -- peeled
3 lg Portobello mushrooms
Salt and pepper
:
1    clove garlic
1    sprig rosemary
1    stalk celery -- diced
1 TB diced shallots
2 TB chopped fresh herbs (e.g.
parsley, chives)
:
2 c  flat-leaf parsley leaves
1    recipe Red Wine Reduction
-recipe follows
:

In a medium saucepan, caramelize the carrots, celery, and onion in 2
teaspoons of the olive oil. Add the celery root, cover three-quarters
of the way with water, and cover the pan. Slowly braise for 45 to 60
minutes, or until tender. Remove the celery root from the braising
liquid and cool completely. Reserve the braising liquid. Trim the
celery root to square off- and slice paper thin. Clean the Portobello
mushrooms by removing the stems and the dark brown underside. Cut
into quarters, season with salt and pepper, and drizzle with 2
teaspoons of the olive oil. Place in an ovenproof pan with the garlic
and rosemary and cover with aluminum foil. Bake at 350 degrees for 30
to 40 minutes, or until tender. In a medium saute pan, saute the
diced celery and shallot in 1 teaspoon of the olive oil. Dice the
roasted mushrooms and toss with the celery mixture and herbs. In a
saute pan, wilt the Italian parsley in 1 teaspoon of the olive oil
and 1 tablespoon of the braising liquid. Place the celery root slices
on a sheet pan with a dash of the braising liquid, season with salt
and pepper, and bake at 350 degrees for 3 to 4 minutes to reheat. Lay
1 slice of the celery root on a plate and top with the mushroom and
celery mixture. Place a piece of the parsley on top and cover with
another piece of the celery root. Press the edges of the celery root
together and place small pinches of braised Italian parsley at each
corner. Drizzle with Red Wine Reduction around the edges of each
plate.

: COOKING LIVE SHOW #CL8734
Recipe By

From: "Jon And Angele Freeman" <jfreemadate: Sat, 12 Oct 1996 11:11:27
~0500

