Title: CG'S EGG CHALLAH BREAD
Categories: Breads, Jewish
Yield: 1 Servings
-HWDP78B    CHERYL GAVARD
1/2 c  Warm water
1 ts Sugar
1 pk Dry active yeast
-Combine these and let sit
-for later use
1 ts -warm water
pn Saffron
3 c  Flour; up 2 4 cups
3 lg Eggs; or subs.
1/3 c  Veg. oil
3 tb Honey
2 tb OJ
1 1/2 ts Salt
1    Beaten egg; set aside
Combine these 2  ingredients and let sit in warm place until it
bubbles and foams. "proofing the yeast"

Sift 2 1/2 cups of the flour into a glass bowl.  Make a well in the
center and add the yeast, 3 eggs, veg. oil, honey, OJ, salt, and
saffron. Beat either with dough hooks, or by hand until well mixed
and a soft dough is formed.  Start to add more flour and knead it in
until you get a non-sticky dough ball.

Turn out onto floured surface and knead it for ten mins. until very
elastic. 3-5 mins.

Oil a bowl and place the dough ball in it and coat well. Cover and
let rise in warm place for 1 1/2 hrs. Punch down. Let stand covered
for 1 hour. Punch down.

Remove to floured board and shape into a round by rolling on the board
until it is a rope about 18-22"'s long. Curl it up and place on oiled
sheet and cover and let stand for 1 hour or until double. Brush with
beaten egg and bake at 375 for 15 mins. lower to 350 and bake for 25
mins. more or until golden and hollow sounding when thumped on botton.

Now if you want you can sprinkle on seeds of your choice before
baking and after brushing with the egg. Or you can add rasins to the
bread, by flattening it, and patting on rasins and then rolling it up
jelly roll style and then forming  it into the round. You can also
bake it in a braid by splitting the dough into three pieces, and
rolling each 20 "'s long pinch one end together and "braid" the
ropes. Pinch the other end. Then follow the directions for baking. I
hope you all try this bread as it is relly great. It can also be used
as Easter bread and have candied fruit added to it and then glazed
with a powder sugar glaze and sprinkle on collored jimmies. If anyone
bakes this bread please let me know how it goes:) TTYL

