Title: CHA SIU BOW (STEAMED BARBECUED PORK BUNS)
Categories: China, Ham/pork
Yield: 1 Servings
-Yield: 2 doz.
-1 recipe of bun dough*
MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
4 c  Barbecued pork;dice fine
1/2 c  Dehydrated onion flakes
MMMMM-----------------------SAUCE MIXTURE----------------------------
2 ts Hoisin sauce
2 ts Sherry
4 ts Oyster sauce
2 ts Catsup
1 ts Sugar
1 1/2 tb Cornstarch
1 1/2 c  Chicken stock
*Recipe is included in this collection. TO MAKE FILLING: Soak onion
flakes in a cup with just enough water to cover flakes. Mix sauce in
a small sauce pan.
Cook over medium high heat until sauce thickens. Stir in the diced
pork and onion flakes. Chill 3-4 hours.
WRAPPING: Divide filling into 24 portions. Divide dough into 24
balls. Slightly flatten each ball then roll out into 4-inch discs,
leaving the center of the disc twice as thick as the side. Place 1
portion of the filling in the center of the dough. Gather up the
sides around the filling and twist dough to seal.
Place on a 2 inch square piece of wax paper, twist side down. Put the
wrapped buns at least 2 inches apart on a cookie sheet and allow the
buns to rise in a draft-free place (the oven) for another hour.
STEAMING: Steam for 15 minutes. Turn heat off and let the steam
subside before lifting the cover. BAKING: Cha Siu Bow can also be
baked. Preheat oven at 350 degrees. Set buns 2 inches apart on cookie
sheet.
Brush with a mixture of 1 beaten egg white, 1 tsp.
water and 1/4 tsp. sugar. Bake for 20-25 minutes or until golden
brown. Brush with melted butter. DO AHEAD NOTES: Cook and freeze.
Reheat by steaming if steam-cooked originally. Steam frozen buns for
1/2 hour to reheat. If baked, thaw and wrap buns in foil or cover pan
with foil and reheat in slow oven for 1/2 hour.

COMMENTS: A good filling should have some pork fat mixed in with the
lean meat. Most importantly, Cha Siu Bow filling should be very
juicy. That's why Ms. Yee uses so much liquid in the sauce mixture.
By chilling the filling thoroughly, the sauce, which is very thick,
adheres to the filling much better. Ideally, when you make the
barbecued pork, you should try to save the pork drippings and use
them as part of the sauce mixture. Ms. Yee deliberately leaves the
center of the dough a bit thick because, if you roll it out to an
even thickness, the top of the bun will ended up being too thin in
comparison to the bottom due to of the way the dough is wrapped. In a
pinch, you may use frozen bread dough as a substitute. However,
frozen dough works best when baked. It does not steam well.
Source: "Dim Sum" by Rhoda Fong Yee. Formatted for MM by Karen Adler
FNGP13B.

