Title: CHA SHU BOW
Categories: Pork
Yield: 1 Servings
MMMMM---------------------YIELD: 12 SERVINGS--------------------------
1 ea Pk Active dry yeast
1 c  Warm water (abt. 110 degree)
1/3 c  Sugar
2 ea Tb Salad oil
1 ts Salt
3 c  All-purpose flour; unsifted,
- (about)
Pork filling (directions
- follow)
DIRECTIONS: In a large bowl, dissolve yeast in water; blend in sugar,
oil and Salt. Let stand in a warm place until bubbly (about 15 mins).
Add flour and mix until dough holds together. Place dough on a
lightly floured board and knead until smooth and elastic (about 8 to
10 mins). Place in a greased bowl, cover and let rise in a warm place
until doubled in bulk (about 1 hour 15 mins). Meanwhile, prepare pork
filling; let cool and set aside. Turn dough out onto a lightly
floured board and knead for 1 min. Shape into a rectangle. With a
floured knife, cut rectangle in half lengthwise, then cut crosswise 6
times to make 12 equal pieces. Roll each piece into a round about 4
1/2" in diameter. Press outside edges of dough to make them slightly
thinner that the rest of the round. Place about 2 tbsp of filling in
center of each round. Pull edges of dough up around filling and twist
to seal. Place each bun, sealed side down, on a 3" square of foil.
Cover and let rise in a warm place until puffy and light (about 30
mins). Set in steamer over boiling water. Cover and steam for 12 to
15 mins. (when done, tops of buns should be glazed and smooth). Serve
warm.

Pork Filling: Cut 1 1/2 lbs boneless lean pork into 1/2" cubes.
Season with 2 cloves garlic (minced), 1/2 tsp grated fresh ginger, 2
tsp sugar and 2 tbsp Chinese soy sauce. In a bowl, combine 2 tsp
sugar, 1 tbsp cornstarch, 2 tbsp soy sauce, 1 tbsp dry sherry and 1/4
cup water; reserve. Heat 1 tbsp oil in a wok or wide frying pan over
high heat. When oil is hot, add pork and stirfry until browned (about
5 mins). Add 1 medium size chopped onion and continue to stir frying
until onion is limp (about 2 mins). Stir cornstarch mixture, add to
pork and cook, stirring, until sauce bubbly and thickens. Cool.

From: GAEW SHIMIZU in Chicago:*

