Title: CHALLAH WITH SAFFRON
Categories: None
Yield: 1 Servings
2    Packages dry yeast
5 c  Bread or all-purpose flour
2 tb Sugar
2 ts Salt
1/3 c  Butter or margarine,
-room temperature
1 c  Hot water (120-130 )
1 pn Saffron
3    Eggs
1    Egg white
1    Egg yolk beaten, mixed with
2 tb Sugar, and
1 ts Cold water
1 ts Poppy seeds
1 lg Baking sheet, greased
In a large mixing bowl combine the yeast, 2 cups flour, sugar, salt,
and butter or margarine. Gradually add the hot water and beat
forcefully by hand or at medium speed using the mixer flat beater,
for 2 minutes. Scrape the bowl occasionally.  Add the saffron, eggs
and egg white (reserving the yolk). The batter will be thick. Beat at
high speed for 2 minutes. Continue to add flour with a wooden spoon
or change to a dough hook in the mixer. Add about 3 additional cups
of flour, one at a time, until the rough mass is no longer sticky. If
it continues to be moist, add small amounts of flour until the dough
cleans the sides of the bowl.

Turn the dough onto a floured surface and knead until it is smooth and
elastic, about 10 minutes.

Place the dough in a greased bowl and cover tightly with plastic wrap
and set aside until it has doubled in bulk, about 1 hour.

Remove plastic wrap, punch the dough down and knead out the bubbles.
Divide the dough in half. To braid, divide each half into three equal
pieces. Under your palms roll each into a 12" length. Lay the rolls
parallel to each other. Start the braid in the middle and work to one
end. Pinch the end securely together. Turn around and complete the
other end. Repeat with the other dough half. Carefully brush the
braids with the egg glaze. Sprinkle liberally with poppy seeds. Don't
cover the braids for the second rise. They will double in bulk in
about an hour. Preheat oven to 400 before baking. Bake until the
braids are shiny brown, 30 to 40 minutes, and test done when a
toothpick inserted in the center comes out dry and clean. Carefully
remove the bread from the baking sheet and cool on wire racks. A long
braided loaf fresh from the oven is fragile and should be moved with
care (and a spatula under it's bottom). Do not cut until it has
cooled and firmed a bit.

Posted By saul.esformes@swcbbs.com (SAUL ESFORMES) On
rec.food.recipes or rec.food.cooking

