Title: MARDI GRAS MERINGUE CREPES
Categories: Desserts, Creole
Yield: 4 Servings
4    Egg white; room temp
1/2 ts Cream of tartar
8 tb Sugar, granulated
1/2 ts Rum extract
1/4 c  Pecans, chopped
8    Crepes
1/2 c  Sugar, brown; firmly packed
2 tb ;Water
1/4 ts Ginger, ground
1 c  Peaches, frozen sliced
-(8 oz)
MMMMM---------------------------CREPES--------------------------------
4    Egg yolks
1/2 c  Milk
1/2 c  ;Water
3 tb Butter; melted
3/4 c  Flour
1/2 ts Salt
Butter; melted
In a small mixer bowl, beat egg whites with cream of tartar at high
speed until foamy. Add granulated sugar, 2 tablespoons at a time,
beating constantly until sugar is dissolved (to test if sugar has
been dissolved, rub just a bit of meringue between thumb and
forefinger) and whites are glossy and stand in soft peaks. Beat in
rum extract; gently fold in pecans.

Spread about 1/3 cup meringue across half of each crepe. Staring at
midpoint of edge of filled side, roll up crepe, pressing lightly so
filling puffs out at ends of rolled crepe. Arrange filled crepes in
greased 13x9x2-inch baking dish; bake in preheated 475 F. oven until
meringue is firm but not brown, about 7 to 9 minutes. Meanwhile, in
small saucepan over medium heat, bring brown sugar, water and ginger
to a boil. Boil and stir syrup until thickened, about 4 minutes.
Gently stir in peaches; cook until heated through, about 1 to 2
minutes. Serve crepes hot with peach syrup.

*** CREPES ***

In mixer bowl, combine egg yolks, milk, water and 3 tablespoons melted
butter; beat until well blended. Add flour and salt; beat until
smooth.

Heat 10-inch omelet or crepe pan over medium-high heat, until just hot
enough to sizzle a drop of water. Brush pan lightly with melted
butter.

For each crepe, pour in 1/4 cup batter, tipping and tilting pan to
move batter quickly over bottom. Cook until lightly browned on bottom
and dry on top. Remove crepe from pan or, if desired, turn and brown
other side. Brush pan lightly with melted butter as needed to prevent
sticking. Stack crepes between layers of wax paper until ready to
fill.

