Title: MARGO'S LAMB STEW
Categories: Meats, Soups
Yield: 6 Servings
3 tb Olive oil
1 lg Onion (thinly sliced)
4    Garlic cloves, minced
3 lb Lamb cut into
-stew-sized cubes and
-carefully trimmed of fat
4 lb Tomatoes, cooked
-(2 large cans)
3    Bay leaves
Lemon juice
1 tb Hungarian paprika
1 ts Celery salt
1/2 ts Cumin, ground
1/8 ts Cayenne
1 ds Allspice
1 ds Cinnamon, ground
1 1/2 lb Green beans, fresh,
-washed and trimmed
In a steeped, saute onion in olive oil on medium-low heat until golden
brown. Add garlic in the last 2-3 minutes. Add lamb cubes and saute
until brown. Add tomatoes and simmer until meat is tender. Keep an
eye on the liquid; add water or red wine if it becomes dry.

Add bay leaves, lemon juice and spices.  Simmer on low heat for at
least 2 hours.  About 1/2 hour before pronouncing it done, add the
green beans. Serve with plain yogurt and pita bread.

NOTES:

*  Fragrant lamb stew -- This recipe comes from Margo Kaiser, with
whom I used to work. It's a delicious stew, spiced fragrantly but not
hot. It's one of my favorites. It's also very easy. The most tedious
work is trimming the lamb, and you can get the butcher to take care
of that.

The spice mixture is my attempt to re-create Margo's "secret spice"
(she didn't offer that recipe).  Feel free to try your own
variations. If you hit on one that you feel is particularly good,
please let me know about it. Yield:  serves 6 to 8.

*  I prefer to cook to the point of simmering, refrigerate overnight,
and then finish cooking the next evening. This greatly enhances the
flavor. When you take the stew from the refrigerator, skim any lamb
fat that has congealed on the top before continuing.

*  I find that many butchers don't understand that I want good
quality meat in stews. I get better quality, more carefully trimmed
meat by telling them that I want lamb cubes cut for shish kebab.

: Difficulty:  easy.
: Time:  20 minutes preparation, several hours cooking.
: Precision:  measure the spices.

: Nancy Mintz
: UNIX System Development Lab, AT&T-IS, Summit, New Jersey, USA
: ihnp4!attunix!nlm

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

