Title: MARYETTA'S ITALIAN SAUSAGE BREAD
Categories: Breads, Clay pot
Yield: 1 Loaf
1 lb Italian sausage, sweet
1 1/4 c  Water; lukewarm
1 ts Salt
1 pk Dry active yeast
1 pn Saffron
1 tb Fennel seeds
4 c  All-purpose flour; sifted
5 ts Olive oil
Cornmeal
If you think your sausage has too much fat, simmer in shallow water
in a frying pan, pricking the sausage with a sharp knife to allow the
fat to escape.

Combine the lukewarm water, salt, yeast, saffron, and fennel seeds in
a metal cup and maintain a lukewarm temperature to keep the yeast
active. Sift the flour into a large bowl, and make a well in the
center of it. Pour in the yeast mixture and mix well (you will have
to use your hands). Knead the dough until smooth and elastic (about
10 minutes), then pour the oil over the dough and knead until no
longer sticky (about 5 minutes). Place in a large bowl, cover with a
towel, and put in a warm place until it doubles in size. (Press the
dough with your fingertips; if they leave a stubborn imprint, it has
risen enough.)

When the rising time is almost over, presoak a clay pot, top and
bottom, for 15 minutes.

Roll the dough out to a thickness of 1/4 inch. Place the sausages
(about 5) on top of the dough, wrap each in its own pocket, and pinch
the ends closed. Place each pocket side by side to form one loaf.
Trim a piece of aluminum foil, cover the bottom of the bottom of the
presoaked pot and sprinkle with cornmeal. Add the dough to the pot
and put lid on, then put the covered pot in a warm place and let the
dough rise until doubled in size (about 60 minutes).

Cover the pot and place it in a cold oven.

Set the oven temperature at 450 degrees F.

Bake for 45 minutes, then check the bread and let it continue baking,
uncovered, in the oven to brown for an additional 15 minutes (total
cooking time about 60 minutes). The bread will be done when a finger
thump on the loaf's surface sounds hollow.

Allow the bread to sit for 15 to 20 minutes before serving.

NOTE: This recipe can be safely doubled, but use 2 pots for cooking.

Source: "The Clay-Pot Cookbook" by Georgia MacLeod Sales and Grover
Sales

