Title: MAULTASCHEN (SWABIAN POCKETS)
Categories: Pork, German
Yield: 4 Servings
MMMMM---------------------------DOUGH--------------------------------
2 3/4 c  Flour
4    Egg
Salt
MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
1 tb Butter
6    Bacon slice; cut into cubes
3    Onion, med; diced
1/4 lb Sausage, Italian sweet
1    Hard roll, without crust, an
1/2 lb Spinach; cooked
1/2 lb Ground meat
1 c  Farmer's sausage; diced
3    Egg
3 tb Parsley, fresh; chopped
Salt; to taste
Pepper, black; to taste
Nutmeg; grated
1    Egg
3 tb Milk, canned
Stock, beef
Combine the flour, eggs, and salt in a bowl and mix to make a pasta
dough. Then add a little water and knead until it has a firm but
elastic consistency.

To make the filling, melt the butter in a skillet and fry the bacon
with the onions until both are quite translucent. Combine the bacon
mixture with the sausage meat.

Moisten the hard roll in water, press dry, and put through the meat
grinder (better than the food mill or food processor), along with the
bacon mixture, cooked spinach, ground meat or smoked farm sausage,
leftover roast, etc.  Then fold in the eggs, parsley, and seasonings;
mix together. The filling should be very spicy indeed.

On a board that has been sprinkled with flour, roll out the dough into
rectangular sheets (about twice as wide as you want your
'Maultaschen' to be).  Take a tablespoon measure and put little dabs
of filling at equally spaced 3-inch intervals all down the middle of
one side of the sheet of dough.  Mix together the egg and canned milk
and apply it to the spaces in between, the outer edge and the fold
line. Fold the plain half of the sheet of dough over to cover the
filling, press down firmly on the spaces around the little packets of
filling, and use a pastry wheel or knife to separate the packets into
3-inch square or diamond- shaped 'Maultaschen'. The process is
similar to making ravioli. Cook thoroughly in beef stock or boiling
salted water for about 10 to 15 minutes, dpeending upon the size of
the 'Maultaschen'.  They'll bob up to the surface when they're done;
remove them with a slotted spoon and allow to drain.

Serving suggestions:

Cut an onion or two into half-rings, fry in butter until golden brown
amd empty the contents of the skillet over the 'Maultaschen' on the
serving dish. Serve with slippery potato salad or a mixed green
salad. Certainly if anyone were to insist that 'Maultaschen' were the
most delicious of all Swabian specialties, I[=Horst Scharfenberg]
would hardly be prepared to deny it.  In fact, as indicated earlier,
I suspect that 'Maultaschen' would have very good chances in a
four-way interna- tional competition with ravioli, won tons, and
pirogi for the champion- ship of the Roughly Rectangular Pasta with
Meat (plus Miscellaneous) Filling division.

It has been said that 'Maultaschen' were originally invented in order
to allow Swabians to keep eating meat during Lent by concealing it
beneath the pasta shell and amidst the spinach filling from the eye
of the parish priest (if not the omniscient Deity Himself). The
following recipe is typical but far from definitive, especially where
the ingre- dients for the filling are concerned.  Feel free to use
whatever you have on hand or whatever your fancy (or your conscience)
dictates.

From:  THE CUISINES OF GERMANY by Horst Scharfenberg
Simon & Schuster/Poseidon Press, New York, 1989
Posted by:  Karin Brewer, Fidonet COOKING Echo, 7/92

