Title: MAUREEN'S HAMBURGER CAKE
Categories: Desserts
Yield: 1 Lge. cake
3 oz Unsweetened chocolate
1 c  Boiling water
1 ts Baking soda
2 1/4 c  Cake and pastry flour
1/2 ts Salt
2 1/2 ts Baking powder
1/2 c  Unsalted butter, at room
-temperature
2 1/2    Granulated sugar
3    Eggs, separated
1 ts Pure vanilla extract
1 c  Sour cream
ICING:
1 1/4 c  Unsalted butter
2 c  Brown sugar
1/2 c  Milk
4 c  Icing sugar, sifted
2 tb Cocoa
GARNISH:
1 c  Strawberry jam or preserves
1 tb Toasted sesame seeds
Preheat the oven to 350øF.  Butter an 8 or 9 inch round cake pan and
line the bottom with parchment paper or waxed paper. Butter an 8 or 9
inch round-bottomed Pyrex casserole bowl and line the bottom with
paper.

To make the cake, combine the chocolate and water in the top of a
double boiler.  Heat over gently simmering water until melted. Stir
well and cool slightly.  Add the baking soda.

Sift together the flour, salt and baking powder and reserve.

Cream the butter until light.  Gradually beat in 2 cups granulated
sugar. Add the egg yolks, one at a time, and then add the vanilla.

Add the chocolate mixture to the egg-yolk mixture. Add the dry
ingredients alternately with the sour cream, mixing just until the
ingredients are blended.

Beat the egg whites until light an gradually beat in the remaining
1/2 cups granulated sugar.  Fold the whites gently but thoroughly
into the batter.

Pour the batter into the round cake pan until it is three-quarters
full. Pour the remaining batter into the Pyrex casserole bowl. Bake
for 40 to 50 minutes, or until the cakes feel firm when gently
pressed at the top. Let the cakes cool for 10 minutes and then remove
from the pans. Cool on racks.

Meanwhile, prepare the icing.  Melt the butter in a saucepan. Add the
brown sugar and cook for 2 minutes. Add the milk and bring to a boil.
Cool.

Beat in the sifted icing sugar until the icing is of spreading
consistency. If it is too runny, add more sugar; if it is too stiff,
add 1 tbsp. boiling water. Remove 1/2 cup icing and mix with the
cocoa.

To assemble, slice the cooled cake from the round pan in two
horizontally. Place one half on the cake plate, Ice the top and sides
with the butterscotch icing. Place the second half on top and ice
with the cocoa frosting.  Spoon on the jam, allowing it to flow down
the sides of the cake like ketchup.  Place the large casserole-shaped
cake on top with the rounded side up. Spread with butterscotch icing.
Sprinkle the top with sesame seeds.  Yield: One Large Cake Typed in
MMFormat by cjhartlin@msn.com Source: Cooking with Bonnie Stern.

