Title: MEAT DUMPLINGS POACHED OR POT-STICKER STYLE
Categories: Chinese, Pork, Beef
Yield: 50 Servings
1 lb Ground or very finely
-chopped pork or beef or 1/2
-& 1/2
Or 1/2 pork & 1/2 raw shrimp
Marinade:
6 tb Sesame oil
2 ts Sugar
3/4 ts Salt
1/4 ts Pepper
1 lb Cabbage (napa or Chinese,
-preferred) or mix with bok
-choy,
Celery, carrot, etc.
1 ts Salt
1/3 lb Chopped green onions (use
-whole onion w/o roots)
Skin:
3 c  Flour
3/4 c  Cold water
1/2 c  Flour to prevent sticking
-during kneading.
10 c  Boiling liquid (water or
-stock optional)
Filling: Chop the "meat" well and mix well with the marinade.

Then chop the cabbage or veggie(s) fine and mix with 1 t. salt and
let sit for 10 minutes; Squeeze out the excess water. Mix the veggie
with the meat and green onions and mix well by hand.

Skins: In a bowl, add water to the flour and knead into a smooth
dough; let it stand for ten minutes. Then roll the dough into a long
baton-like roll and cut into 50 pieces. (I just divide in 1/2 & 1/2 &
1/2 etc and am satisfied with four dozen. At the end I can eyeball 3
equal parts pretty accurately.)

Use a rolling pin to roll each piece into a thin circle.

Place 1 portion (50 th or 48th) of filling in the center of a dough
circle. Fold the circle in half and moisten the edges with water. Use
index finger and thumb to bring the sides together.

Pleat the open edge together (into a semi-circle - sorta) keeping the
other edge smooth. The smooth edge will yield to the length of the
pleated edge. Pinch the pleats together to seal. Repeat for all
dumplings.

Boil 10 cups water or stock or mixture and add dumplings; stir to
prevent from sticking together. Return to a boil, turn heat low and
cook for six minutes. Remove. Serve with dipping sauces.

I like to give each diner a small dipping bowl and provide Soy, Shao
Hsing, Rice Vinegar, Sesame Oil, Hot Sesame oil, Finely chopped or
grated Garlic, Ginger, Bean paste, Hot bean paste, Black Bean paste,
Peanut paste as makings for each to mix their dip to their liking.

YOU CAN CHEAT and buy ready made "gyoza" skins at most Chinese
markets. If you are not too dexterous, get a dumpling press and you
can stuff, fold, pleat, etc rapidly. Get more presses if you've a
helper or two. Mine were under $2.00 if I remember. These are the
same as you use for pierogi, etc.

You can freeze these but wrap with separate partitions (I was
successful rolling them in saran. I'd wrap one, roll, wrap one, roll,
etc. When frozen and then cooked, as liquid returns to boil, lower
and poach for 10 minutes. If they are going to be pot- stickers (next
recipe) you can also steam them or poach in low liquid without
covering.

FROM:FRED PETERS

