Title: MEAT SAUCE (USDA)
Categories: Freezes wel, Usda
Yield: 24 Servings
5 lb Lean ground beef
3/4 c  Instant minced onion
1/2 c  Sweet pepper flakes
1 1/2 qt Tomato paste
1 3/4 qt Water
1 1/2 ts Pepper
2 tb Sugar
3 tb Salt
1 ts Garlic powder
1/8 ts Cayenne pepper -- optional
2 tb Worcestershire sauce
Line four 8x8x2-inch baking pans with heat-resistant freezer wrap.
Allow enough extra wrap to fold over top. Use one pan for each six
servings or one-fourth of the recipe. Baking pans are not needed for
food to be served without freezing.

Crumble beef; cook until lightly browned.  Stir in onion and pepper
flakes. Drain off excess fat.  Stir remaining ingredients into meat
mixture. Cook slowly, stirring occasionally for 1 hour or until
flavors are blended.

TO SERVE WITHOUT FREEZING:  Serve hot mixture over cooked macaroni,
noodles, or spaghetti.

TO FREEZE:  Pour each part to be frozen into a baking pan. Pack food
tightly to avoid air pockets.  Cool for 30 minutes at room
temperature. Complete wrapping by pulling paper up over top of food.
Put edges of wrap together and fold several times so paper lies
directly on top of food. Fold ends of freezer wrap over the top and
seal with freezer tape. Label with name of food, date of freezing,
and last date the food should be used for best eating quality (about
4 months). Freeze immediately for 10 to 12 hours before removing
packages from the pans.

TO HEAT FROZEN SAUCE:  Preheat oven to 400B0 F. (hot). Remove freezer
wrap. Place food in baking pan.  Bake 1 1/4 hours or until mixture is
bubbly at edges and center is hot. Serve over cooked macaroni,
noodles, or spaghetti.

~ - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

Serving Ideas : Serve over macaroni, noodles, or spaghetti.

NOTES : This recipe is for 24 servings (about 3/4 cups each).
Directions are given for dividing the prepared food into four parts
of six servings each.  One part may be completely cooked and served
at the time of preparation.  The remaining parts may be frozen.

"Freezing Combination Main Dishes"  by Meredith Robinson and Lois
Fulton (Consumer and Food Economics Institute, Agriculture Research
Service) USDA Home and Garden Bulletin No. 40, 1973 (Stock Number
0100-02712). MasterCook electronic format by Rosie Winters. Nutr.
Assoc. : 0 4289 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

: Freezing Combination Main Dishes (Robinson & Fulton,
Recipe By
1973)

