Title: MELVIN LAROCQUE'S BANNOCK V2.0
Categories: Quickbreads, Canadian, Jw, Native, Tnt
Yield: 4 Servings
3 c  All purpose flour
3/4 ts Salt
2 tb [Scant] baking powder
1/2 c  Lard; melted *
1 1/4 c  Or more water; divided
1/2 c  Raisins, currants or dried
-blueberries or cranberries
-[optional]
2 tb Sugar [if fruit added]
Bannock, a simple type of scone, originated in Scotland and was made
originally of oatmeal. The first pioneers taught it to the Indians
who did not previously have leavened breads and made unleavened
breads from corn and nut meals, which were a very minor part of their
diet [breads not corn and nuts]. It has spread and adapted from
there, with many regional variations.

It was cooked in pioneer days in cast iron frying pans over open
fires. Toutons use a similar dough where small rings are deep fried
like doughnuts. Variations in flours and the additional of dried or
fresh fruit make this bread a popular choice of hunters and campers
today. Oven baking has become an alternative to the cast iron frying
pan when made at home. The dough can also be wrapped around green
de-barked sticks driven into the ground beside the camp fire.

* Melted shortening, butter or margarine can be used but the taste
will be altered. Lard is traditional.

Measure flour, salt, baking powder [and dried fruit and sugar] into a
large bowl. Stir to mix. Make a well in the center and pour in a 1/2
cup water. Do not mix yet. Then add the melted lard and the rest of
the water. Depending on the dryness of the flour add up to 1/4 cup
more. The resulting batter should be slightly sticky, not flaky like
pie pastry. Stir with fork to make a ball. No not overmix; stop as
soon as the ball of dough lifts away from the bowl. Turn out onto a
working surface. Knead gently about 10 times. Do not over work the
dough and let the gluten develop. Or mix and knead with your hands in
the bowl. Pat into a flat circle 1 inch thick. Cook in a greased
frying pan over medium heat allowing 15 minutes each side. Use two
lifters for easy turning. Serve hot with butter. Break it off in
chunks or slice into wedges with a knife. May also be baked on
greased baking sheet at 375 deg for 25 to 30 minutes or 450 deg for
about 20 minutes for a golden brown exterior and a soft moist
interior. The bannock will brown easier with the addition of at least
some of the optional sugar.

This tastes best in a frying pan outdoors over a wood fire.

Variations: Substitute 1 cup whole wheat flour and/or 1/2 cup oatmeal
for up to 1 1/2 cups of white flour.

Add fresh fruit instead of dried.

Add aged shredded Cheddar cheese and/or chopped onion, garlic, herbs
etc.

Recipe from Melvin Larocque, the best bannock maker in the family;
posted by Uncle Jim.

