Title: MEXICAN RICE PUDDING (ARROZ CON LECHE)
Categories: None
Yield: 1 Servings
2    Inches cinnamon stick
A 2" strip of lime zest,
-3/4 " wide
1 c  Rice
1 qt Milk
3/4 c  Sugar
1/4 ts Salt
4 lg Egg yolks
1/2 ts Vanilla extract
1/4 c  Raisins
1 tb Unsalted butter,
-cut into bits
Ground cinnamon, for garnish
1. The rice.  Bring 2 c water to boil in med saucepan, add cinn stick
and lime zest, cover and simmer over med heat for 5 min. Pour in
rice, let mix return to boil, stir once, then cover and cook over
med-low heat for 20 min, until all the liquid is absorbed and the
rice is tender.

2.  The pudding.  Stir in milk, sugar, and salt and simmer over med to
med-low heat, stirring frequently, until the liquid shows the FIRST
signs of thickening, 20-25 min. Take from the heat and remove the
cinn stick and zest.  Beat the egg yolks until runny, stir in the
vanilla and a few T of the hot rice, the stir yolk concoction back
into the rice mixture, Mix in HALF the raisins, then spoon the rice
pudding into a decorative 8"square baking dish.

3.  Browning and finishing the pudding.  Preheat the broiler and dot
the rice pudding w/butter.  Set the dish under the heat long enough
to brown the top, 3 or 4 min. Sprinkle with remaining raisins and the
ground cinnamon, and serve warm or at room temperature.

COOK'S NOTES:

Timing and Advance Preparation The rice pudding can be ready in an
hour, much of which won't involve your direct participation. It may
be prepared through Step 2 a day or two in advance, then buttered and
broiled shortly before serving.

Historical Notes:

Arroz con leche

This dessert is softer and more connamony than our baked rice
pudding. The flavors are simple and close to home, but it's easy to
develop a thoroughgoing love for it, spoonful after spoonful. mexican
people everywhere serve it as regularly as they do flan; it's creamy
and, in its own way, light and soothing.

This is an especially pretty and tasty recipe, based on one from
Zelayaran's Las 500 (quinentos) mejores recetas de la cocina
mexicana. (The 500 best recipes of the Mexican Kitchen). Pronounced:
Lahs keen-yen-toes may-hor-ays ree-setahs day lah ko-cheenah
may-hi-kaanah. It would be welcome after a hearty soup like Menudo
(may-noo-doe) or Shrimp-Ball soup; it travels well to potlucks.
Leftovers, thinned with milk and warmed, are very good for breakfast.

Rice pudding brings to my mind the volatile, chancy crowd of Mexico
City's Garibaldi Square, where this dessert, only one of the
attractions, sits in huge, milky masses stuck with a raisin or two
for decoration. Or sometimes I am reminded of the well-used walkways
around the Oaxacan (wah-hock-can) market, where ladies sell it in
paper cups at sundown. Or I picture any of a dozen other typical
scenes: from rude, makeshift street stands to well-appointed
traditional restaurants-where arroz con leche (air-rose cone
letch-ay) (roll those double R's baby) is the thing you have.

Above text quoted from Authentic Mexican by the Baylesses.

holly "Holly D. Iles" <holly@bga.com>

