Title: MIKE ORCHEKOWSKI'S THREE-SPICE CAJUN-SPANISH
Categories: Rice, Side dish
Yield: 8 Servings
1 c  Rice, uncooked
Salt
Water
1 cn Condensed tomato soup (10oz)
-OR
1 cn Tomato sauce (15 oz)
-OR
1 cn Tomato paste (8 oz)
Black pepper
Red pepper flakes
Louisiana hot pepper sauce
Soy sauce
1. Run tap water until hot. Fill container with water to cover double
height of rice. Add rice. Let sit for 5 minutes, stirring. Drain in
colander. (This step eliminates 90% of the surface starch from the
rice kernels, and reduces the foam generated during cooking.)

2. Fill pan with water, leaving 3/4" clear at top. Set on burner;
bring to full rapid boil. Add salt, some soy sauce (about 1/2
teaspoon), and a little hot sauce (about 1/2 teaspoon) to the water.
Let boil for 1 minute WITHOUT rice. (This lets the hot sauce's solids
"leach" their flavor into the water.) Now add rice. Bring to full
rapid boil. Trim off the heat until the foam just barely remains. Let
boil for 10 minutes, stirring every minute or two. Drain in colander;
rinse pan well.

3. Reduce burner heat to near-minimum. Open can of tomato soup or
tomato paste; empty into pan. Add 1/2 to 3/4 can of water to soup (if
using tomato paste, use full can of water); stir well. (You may
substitute tomato sauce, omitting water.) Add soy sauce, hot sauce,
salt, pepper, and red pepper flakes to soup mixture; stir well. Place
on burner and bring to near boil, about 2 minutes, stirring
constantly. (This step lets the spice flavor elements "leach" into
the tomato soup mixture.) Add rice and coat rice well. Let simmer for
1 minute, stirring. Empty into serving dish.

NOTE: The amount of salt, pepper, red pepper flakes, soy sauce, and
Louisiana hot pepper sauce to add is up to you, depending on how
spicy you want the rice to get. When you are adding salt to the
water, however, I recommend 2 tablespoons at least, to get the water
"less pure" and thus raising the boiling point. This way, the rice
cooks faster. Also, if you want to add something to the rice to give
some extra texture, such as a can of vegetables (corn, peas,
garbanzos, etc.) or a can of tuna (two 6-ounce or one 12-ounce can(s)
should do nicely), you do this as well.

