Title: MINCE PIE
Categories:
Yield: 1 Servings
2 lb Granny Smith or other tart
(4 to 5 medium)
Firm apples
2 lb McIntosh apples -- (5 to 6
Medium)
2 md Oranges
2 md Lemons
2 1/2 c  Dark or golden raisins --
(one 15 or 16ounce
Package)
1 2/3 c  Currants (one 12ounce
Package)
1/2 c  Diced candied orange peel
1 1/4 c  Light brown sugar
2/3 c  Dark rum or brandy
1/4 c  Distilled white vinegar
8 tb Unsalted butter -- (1
Stick)
1 ts Freshly grated nutmeg
1 ts Ground cinnamon
1/2 ts Ground cloves
1/2 ts Ground ginger
Double batch Sour Cream
Dough for a -- above
2    Crust pie
Egg Wash: 1 egg well beaten
With a pinch
Salt
2 ts Sugar for finishing the top
The pies -- optional
Two 9inch Pyrex pie pans
To make the filling, peel, halve and core the apples. Grate them
coarsely by hand or in the food processor. Place the grated apples in
a large nonreactive saucepan. Grate the zest of both the oranges and
lemons, then squeeze both fruits and strain the juice and add it with
the zest into the pan. Stir in the remaining ingredients. Bring to a
simmer over low heat, stirring occasionally. Continue cooking for
about 45 minutes longer, stirring often this scorches easily until
the mixture is reduced to a thick, jamlike consistency. Let cool. Set
racks at the middle and lowest levels of the oven and preheat to 400
degrees. Divide the double batch of dough into quarters. Roll one
quarter out to form a bottom crust and arrange in pan. Repeat with
the second piece. Spread half the mincemeat evenly in each crust.
Form the lattice top crusts. Flute the edge of the pies and carefully
brush with egg wash. If you wish, sprinkle the top of each pie with
sugar. Bake the pies for 15 minutes on the bottom rack of the oven.
Lower the temperature to 350 degrees and move the pies to the middle
rack. Bake about 20 to 30 minutes longer, until the crust is a deep
golden and the juices are just beginning to bubble up. Cool pies on
racks and serve warm or at room temperature. Yield: two 9-inch pies

: BAKERS' DOZEN (NICK MALGIERI) SHOW #BD1A20
Recipe By
For the Mincemeat (enough for 2 pies):

From: Jackie Bordelon <jbord@premier.Ne

