Title: MOCHA MADNESS PART 2
Categories: Chocolate, Godiva
E  *****
Yield: 6 Servings

Continued:

Scrape the chilled custard into an ice cream maker and freeze
according to the manufacturer's instructions. Pack the ice cream into
a covered container and freeze for at least 2 or 3 hours, or
overnight.

Make the mocha chip ice cream: In a medium saucepan, combine the
cream, half-and-half and espresso beans. Bring to a gentle boil, and
remove from the heat. Place the cocoa powder in a small bowl. Add 2
to 3 tablespoons of the hot cream mixture to the cocoa and stir well
until a smooth paste forms. Return the cocoa powder mixture to the
saucepan and whisk until smooth. Cover and allow toinfuse for 30
minutes.

In a medium bowl, using a wire whisk, stir the yolks, sugar and salt
until blended.

Strain the cream mixture through a fine-meshed strainer into a heavy
medium saucepan. Bring to a gentle boil over medium heat. Remove the
pan from the heat. Gradually whisk about1 cup of the hot cream
mixture into the beaten egg yolks until blended. Return this mixture
to the saucepan. Continue cooking over medium-low heat, stirring
constantly with a wooden spoon, for 3 to 5 minutes, until the custard
has thickened slightly. Do not allow the custard to boil. It is done
when you can run your finger down the back of the coated spoon and
the path remains in the custard.

Immediately remove the pan from the heat and strain the custard
through a fine-meshed strainer into a stainless steel bowl. Place the
bowl over a larger bowl of ice water and stir the custard for 5 to 10
minutes, or until cool. Remove the bowl from the ice water and stir
in the vanilla. Cover the surface of the custard with plastic wrap
and refrigerate for 2 hours, or until very cold.

Scrape the chilled custard into an ice cream maker and freeze
according to the manufacturer's instructions. Just before the ice
cream is ready, add the chocolate and process until evenly
distributed throughout the ice cream. Pack the ice cream into a
covered container and freeze for at least 2 or 3 hours, or overnight.

Make the mocha sauce:

Combine the chocolate and espresso powder in a medium bowl. In a small
saucepan, combine the cream, sugar, and butter. Cook over medium-low
heat, stirring with a wooden spoon, until the sugar has dissolved and
the mixture comes to a gentle boil. Pour the cream mixture over the
chocolate. Let stand for 30 seconds to melt the chocolate. (The sauce
can be prepared up to 2 days ahead and kept refrigerated. Rewarm in
the top of a double boiler over hot, not simmering, water -- or in a
microwave on MEDIUM [50%] power. )  Put a small scoop of the
chocolate ice cream in the bottom of each of the six parfait glasses,
and top each one with a small scoop of the mocha chip ice cream.
Drizzle some of the mocha sauce over each serving.

Repeat the layering process with the remaining ice cream and sauce.
Top each parfait with a dollop of whipped cream and a few
chocolate-covered coffee beans. Sift cocoa powder over the top and
serve immediately.

~ Judith Sutton

:
Recipe By

