Title: MODIFIED GENERAL TSO'S CHICKEN
Categories: Chicken, Chinese, Ethnic, Hot & spicy
Yield: 4 Servings
10 oz Chicken Legs, deboned, or
-thighs, deboned, or
-boneless chicken breasts
2 c  Soya Oil
1 ts Sesame oil
Water chestnut flour(Powder)
-to coat chicken pieces
MMMMM------------------SEASONINGS (MIX IN BOWL-----------------------
1 tb Ginger Root, minced
2    Scallions, chopped
1 tb Garlic, minced
2    Thai finger peppers, crushed
-use more or less to taste
1 tb Orange or lemon peel, minced
MMMMM---------------------SAUCE (MIX IN BOWL--------------------------
2 tb Sugar
2 tb Soy Sauce
1 1/2 ts Vinegar
2 tb Cornstarch
1/4 c  Chicken Stock
MMMMM--------------------------MARINADE-------------------------------
1 ea Egg White
1 tb Cornstarch
1 tb Soy Sauce
This recipe is a combination of the best parts of many other General
Tso's Chicken recipes I have seen. I use this recipe on a regular
basis. I have used de-boned chicken thighs with good success. Have
made it using orange or lemon peel and liked it with either. Have
used small Vidalia onion in place of scallions also. Be careful when
using the water chestnut flour, it doesn't brown as much as regular
flour, so don't overcook. The sauce will make the dish darker. I
tried using a deep fryer for cooking the chicken without success. The
chicken kept sticking to the fryer basket. Have found that using a
wok and cooking about 5 pieces of chicken at a time works better for
me. Cut the chicken into pieces no larger than 1" square. Prepare
marinade by combining egg white, cornstarch, and 1 tablespoon soy
sauce in a large bowl. Add chicken pieces and set aside for two
hours. In a deep pot, heat the oil until it reaches 350 degrees.
Dredge marinated chicken pieces in water chestnut powder to coat. In
a basket, or with a slotted spoon, lower several marinated chicken
pieces into the fat. Fry about one or two minutes or until the
chicken becomes crisp; test for doneness before completing the batch.
Continue until all pieces have been fried. Set oil and cooked chicken
pieces aside. In a wok, on high heat, reheat two tablespoons of the
reserved oil. Add prepared ginger, scallions, garlic, chili peppers,
and orange or lemon peel. Stir to prevent burning. Add the fried
chicken and stir quickly.Add sugar, soy sauce, vinegar and cornstarch
mixed with chicken stock. Remove from the heat and stir sesame oil
into the sauce. Spoon the mixture on to a hot platter and serve
immediately with steamed rice. Serves 4.

