Title: MONGOLIAN GRILL
Categories: Chinese, Beef, Lamb
Yield: 4 Servings
1/2 c  Millet
Lamb bones*
10 c  Cold water
Salt
Barbecue:
2 lb Boneless lamb taken from the
-upper part of the leg *
2 lb Boneless beef sirloin
2 c  Slivered green onion (cut in
-half lengthwise and slice
Diagonally into 1/2-inch
-sections)
2 c  Chinese parsley leaves
Dip:
1 c  Thin soy sauce
1/2 c  Chinese red vinegar
1/2 c  Rice wine
1/2 c  Fresh ginger juice **
2 tb Flower pepper salt (see
-recipe at end)
1/4 c  Hot pepper oil
1/4 c  Sesame oil
2 tb Garlic paste ***
From: Kyosho Connick This first is from The People's Republic of China
Cookbook, _Mongolian_Barbecue_ A truly native meal, typical of the
diet of the rugged Mongolian nomad. The thin-sliced meat is dipped in
a spicy sauce, quickly grilled and then wrapped in a sesame roll. A
gruel-like millet soup is eaten between sandwiches, and the meal is
topped off with draughts of heated sorghum whiskey. Transposed to the
West, this meal is ideal for an outdoor barbecue.

Millet soup:

* Ask the butcher to bone a leg of lamb.  Use the bones to make the
soup and freeze the shank portion for later use. ** Smash 5 large
slices of fresh ginger with the end of a cleaver handle and put them
in 1/2 cup water for 2 hours.  Squeeze out the juice from the ginger
slices. *** Peel and crush 4 large garlic cloves into a paste, and
add a little rice wine or vinegar to moisten.

Soak the millet overnight in cold water.  The next morning, put the
lamb bones in a large pot.  Add water and bring to a boil. Reduce the
heat and simmer for several hours, adding water to maintain the
original volume. Skim off the fat, remove the bones and strain the
stock. Drain the millet, rinse several times, add to the stock and
simmer slowly for 1 to 2 hours, or until the grains break up and the
soup is thickened. Salt to taste. Turn off the heat and set aside.
While the stock is simmering, trim off all fat and skin from the beef
and lamb. Wrap the meat well and place in the freezer for 2 to 3
hours, or until it becomes firm, but not frozen hard. (This makes it
easier to slice the meat very thinly.) Using a very sharp knife or
cleaver, carefully cut against the grain of the meat to make slices
about 1/8 inch thick.  Cut each slice into strips about 2 by 4
inches.  Arrange the beef and lamb in layers on separate platters.
Cover and refrigerate until ready to use. Put the green onion and
parsley in separate bowls, cover and refrigerate until ready to use.
Put each dip ingredient in a separate bowl, place the bowls on a
large tray, cover and set aside.  Prepare the rolls.

