Title: MONTEREY CLAM CHOWDER
Categories: Soups, Crockpot
Yield: 6 Servings
1    Carrot, diced (1)
1 md Onion, diced (1 1/2)
1    Potato, diced (2)
1    Stalk of celery, diced (2)
1/2 lb Minced bacon (3/4 lb.)
1/4 lb Margarine (I used butter, 1
-1/2 cubes)
3    Cloves fresh garlic, minced
-(5)
1/2 qt Clam juice (I used 3- 8 oz
-bottles)
1 1/2 c  Flour (2 1/4 c.)
2 c  Milk (3 c.)
2 c  Heavy whipping cream (3 c.)
2 c  Half-and-half (3 c.)
1/2 ts Black pepper (1 tsp., DON'T
-SALT!)
1/2 lb Chopped clams (fresh, frozen
-or canned) (3 lb. can)
1/2 ts Clam base (optional,
-available in most gourmet
-shops)
(I made 1 1/2 times this amount - see parenthesis for amt.)

Place vegetables, bacon and margarine in a 5 quart sauce pot. Saute
over medium heat until vegetables are tender. Be careful not to brown
or scorch.

When vegetables are tender, add flour to make a roux. Cook for two
minutes, allowing flour to cook while stirring occasionally.

Add clam juice and dairy products.  Stir by using a wire whip.

Add fresh garlic, black pepper, chopped clams and clam base. Cook over
low-medium heat stirring occasionally to prevent chowder from
scorching. Cook for two hours or until chowder is brought to desired
thickness.

If a crockpot, or small steam kettle is available, it is recommended.
Also, clam juice can be added to thin chowder down if it gets too
thick.

Note:  This soup is the BEST clam chowder I have ever tasted! It is
thick and very rich and fattening! I didn't use the clam base since I
don't even know what that is. Also, I didn't need to simmer it as
long as suggested. I cooked it for about 1 1/2 hours. The chowder
needs to be stirred OFTEN, probably about every 5-10 minutes or so or
it will stick to the bottom of the pot.  Also, I one-and-one-halved
times'd it, using about 3 lbs. of chopped clams instead of the
recommended amount. I also served it with the little soup "clam"
crackers. It made about 5 quarts this way. Deb C.

[ Fisherman's Grotto Restaurant in Monterey, CA. ]

Posted by:  Shelley Rodgers - Cooking Echo Reprinted by: Debbie
Carlson - Cooking Echo

