Title: MOOSEWOOD EGGPLANT & RANDOMNESS
Categories: None
Yield: 8 Servings
2 md Eggplants (about 7*inches
Long)
3/4    "milk" (use your preferred
Vlf option)
2 c  Fine bread crumbs or wheat
Germ (or a combination)
1 ts Basil
1/2 ts Each: oregano and thyme
1    Batch italian tomato sauce
(there is a recipe listed in
The book, but
Feel free to use your own
Premade or personal sauce)
1 lb "mozzarella cheese"
1/2 c  "parmesan cheese"
preheat oven to 375 degrees.  either lightly lube (oil, pam,
whatever) a baking tray and a 9x13 inch pan or use non-stick versions
of the same. cut the eggplants into circles 1/2 " thick. place the
milk in a shallow bowl; combine bread crumbs and/or wheat germ with
herbs on a plate. dip each eggplant slice in the milk, moistening
both sides, then cover both sides thoroughly with the crumb mix.
spread the prepped slices on the baking tray and pan , and bake for
approx. 20-30 minutes (or until tender). remove from oven, and pile
them gently on the the baking sheet. then, without cleaning the pan,
ladle some tomato sauce into the pan and spread out over the bottom.
add a layer of eggplant slices and cover them with more sauce. spread
some mozzarella over the sauce, and repeat the layering process until
you runo out of either room or ingredients. sprinkle the top with
lots of parmesan. bake uncovered for about 40 minutes, or until
heated through and bubbling around the edges. remove from oven and
let sit for about 10 minutes beofre serving.

(katzen, mollie.  the moosewood cookbook, new revised edition. ten
speed press.  berkeley, ca.  1977, revised 1992. page 133)

Posted by Ayanna Gaines <AYANNA@BROWNVM.brown.edu> to the Fatfree
Digest [Volume 14 Issue 25] Jan. 25, 1995.
:from the _moosewood cookbook_, (apologies to mollie katzen):

Individual recipes copyrighted by originator. FATFREE Recipe
collections copyrighted by Michelle Dick 1995. Formatted by Sue Smith,
SueSmith9@aol.com using MMCONV. Archived through kindness of Karen
Mintzias, km@salata.com.

1.80รก

