Title: MOSLEM-STYLE POT STICKERS
Categories: Chinese, Beef, Lamb/mutton
Yield: 4 Servings
1 pk Gyoza skins, 3" (cut to fit)
MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
1/4 lb Napa cabbage
1/2 ts Salt, kosher
1/2 lb Ground chuck ;and
1/2 lb Ground top round; OR
1 lb Lamb, ground
1 tb Ginger, fresh; minced*
3 tb Scallion; minced
2 tb Soy sauce, thin
3 tb Shao xing
1 tb Sesame oil**
1/2 ts Salt, kosher
1/8 ts Pepper, black
3/4 ts Orange peel, fresh; grated
1/2 c  Oil; for frying
2 c  Chicken stock; plus
2 tb Oil; for steam cooking
MMMMM-----------------------DIPPING SAUCE----------------------------
1 tb Soy sauce, thin
2 tb Vinegar, black or balsamic
1/4 ts Ginger, fresh; minced
1/4 ts Sesame oil*
Filling: Chop the cabbage finely, sprinkle with 1/2 teaspoon kosher
salt, and toss well to combine. Let stand a little, then drain the
liquid and wring it out in cheesecloth to get rid of excess water.

Scatter the cabbage in a large bowl, add the beef or lamb, and
sprinkle the rest of the filling ingredients (through the orange
peel) on top. Stir briskly in one direction only until all is well
blended, with chopsticks or a fork, then throw the mixture lightly
against the inside of the bowl a few times to compact the mass. For
the best flavor, cover airtight with plastic wrap pressed directly on
the surface and let stand half an hour at room temperature.

Filling the dumplings: Line a baking sheet with no-stick parchment
paper to hold the finished dumplings (they don't call 'em
pot-stickers for nothing). Fill one wrapper at a time, keeping the
remainder covered. Put two level teaspoons of filling off-center in
the wrapper (as though you were making enchiladas, and nudge (or
nudzh) it with your fingers into a half-moon shape about 2" long.
This makes the dumplings easier to seal. Fold the wrapper exactly in
half over the filling, pinching shut at the midpoint. Beginning to
the right of the midpoint, make three tiny pleats on the *near* side
of the wrapper only, folding the pleats *toward* the midpoint. After
each pleat, pinch the dough to join the far, unpleated side of the
wrapper. Pinch the extreme right corner of the arc closed. Now half
the dumpling is sealed.

Repeat the process to the left of the midpoint, aiming the pleats
toward the midpoint again. Pinch the left corner closed, then gently
pinch all along the arc to insure it is sealed and to thin the ridge
of dough. Pan-frying the dumplings: About 20 minutes before serving,
mix the ingredients for the dipping sauce, taste and adjust to your
liking, and place it in small individual dip dishes or saucers
alongside each place setting. Have two serving platters in a low oven
to warm.

Heat the skillet over high heat until hot enough to evaporate a bead
of water on contact. Add enough oil to coat the bottom with a scant
1/2" of oil, swirl the skillet to glaze it an inch up the sides, then
adjust to give an even layer of oil. Reduce the heat to medium. When
the oil is hot enough to foam a pinch of dry flour, pick up the
dumplings by their tops and quickly arrange them smooth side down in
the pan, making concen- tric rings. Crowd the dumplings a bit; this
makes for prettier presen- tation when you're through. Adjust the
heat so they sizzle mildly.

Once the dumplings are in place, raise the heat slightly to bring
them to a good sizzle and brown the bottoms. Check underneath
frequently, and when the bottoms are evenly browned, give the stock
mixture a stir and add enough to come halfway up the side of the
dumplings. Expect a great hiss and cloud of steam when you add the
stock.

Adjust the heat to maintain a simmer, and cover the pot. After about
seven minutes, lift the lid to peek inside the pot, and when the
stock is almost all absorbed by the dumplings, remove the lid. Lift
one dumpling with a spatula to check the bottom.  If it is not crisp
enough to "clink" against a fingernail, then continue to cook for a
minute or so more. If there is not enough oil left after steaming to
crisp them, add a bit more oil from the side of the pan and swirl to
distribute it under the dumplings.

When the bottoms are crisp, turn off the heat, move the pan off the
burner and loosen the bottoms of the dumplings with the spatula.
Invert them onto the serving platter, bottoms up. Serve with the
individual dishes of dipping sauce.

The Modern Art of Chinese
Cooking
Barbara Tropp

