Title: MOZZARELLA CHEESE
Categories:
Yield: 1 Servings
MMMMM-----------------CRAFT OF THE COUNTRY COOK----------------------
2 ga Milk, pasteurized and
-cooled to 90^F
7 tb Cultured buttermilk
6 tb Yogurt
-rennet to coagulate 2
-gallons milk (1/2 Hansens
-tablet) dissolved in about
1/2 c  Cold water.
Usually makes 4 half pound cheeses.

Mozzarella is one of several kinds of "plastic-curd" cheeses,
originating in Italy. In making them the curds are kneaded, which
expels whey and produces plasticity. Because of their dense texture
they keep well in warm climates and are ideal for smoking.

Provolone is an aged version of a plastic-curd cheese. Mozzarella is
one of the most versatile cheeses to make at home, since it tastes
wonderful freshly made, freezes well, and can be used like an aged
cheese in cooking, melting readily when heated.

Start this cheese in the evening. Maintain the milk at 90^F in a
double boiler. Mix the buttermilk and yogurt separately with a little
of the milk to remove lumps, then blend into the rest of the milk.
Add the rennet solution and mix thoroughly. Let sit until the curd
sets and breaks clearly when tested with a finger - about 20 to 30
minutes. Cut the curd into 1/2 inch cubes as evenly as possible.
Maintain at 90^F for 15 minutes, stirring with a clean hand. The
curds are fragile because they have not been cooked, so stir very
gently, just enough to keep them from matting together. Gently pour
the curds into a cloth lined colander. When the whey has drained, the
curd should be in one solid piece. Rinse in cold water, then soak in
a pan of cold water for 15 minutes. If it is a big batch, cut the
curd into several blocks, 4 or 5 inches square. Drain off most of the
water, then refrigerate the curds, or keep in a cool, 40^F place.
Leave them in a colander or other container that allows drainage.
(Commercially, mozzarella curds are shipped to delicatessens at this
stage, where the cheese is finished.) The next day, warm the cheese
to room temperature so it will ripen, or become more acidic. After an
hour or so, test the cheese for acidity as follows. Cut off a small
piece of cheese and cut it into three 1/2 inch cubes. Heat several
cups of water in a sauce pan to 165^F. Put in the cubes and stir for
5 minutes. Remove the cubes and mold them together like modeling
clay. Reheat the lump of cheese in the water for a minute, then
remove and work or mold it together a little more. After repeating
several times, try to pull the curd apart. If it breaks or tears, and
clouds the water, it is underripe. Wait an hour or so and test again.
When it pulls into a long rope and can be molded together again, it
is ready. It will have a glossy surface and* will cloud the water
only slightly. The whole cheese is treated somewhat like the test
sample to finish it. Cut it into small cubes and put them in a pan.
Heat water to 170^F and pour enough over them, to cover the curds by
about 2 inches. Keep a thermometer in the pan and let the temperature
drop to 135^F. Press the cubes together, and then knead the cheese,
by stretching and pulling it, as if working modelling clay. It should
become "plastic" and stretch into long strands. When it does, shape
into half pound balls, or make a thick rope, fold it in half, and
twist several times to make a decorative oblong cheese. Mozzarella
can be dipped in hot water to make a glossy surface, or wrapped in
cheese cloth to protect it. To keep the cheese very fresh tasting for
up to a week, keep it in a bowl of water in the refrigerator, and
change the water every day. To salt mozzarella for longer keeping, or
to prepare it for smoking, soak it in brine for 4 or 5 hours (See
Brined Cheese) The whey from mozzarella is perfect for making ricotta
because it does not have a chance to develop much acidity.

Smoked Mozzarella: Mozzarella and other firm cheeses can be cold
smoked for flavor. Salting and smoking both help preserve the cheese
by drying it, and discouraging bacteria and insects. Set the cheese
on a rack in the smoker, or wrap in cheesecloth and hang it. Keep the
temperature below 90^F to prevent sweating off butterfat or melting.
Smoke at 60 to 85^F for 4 to 15 hours.

Brined Cheese: Press the cheese for 5 or 6 hours, or overnight,
without salting it. Make enough brine to cover the cheese by about an
inch, using 4.1/2 Tablespoons of plain salt for every quart of water
needed. Soak the cheese from 12 to 24 hours. A small cheese requires
less time than a large one. Turn the cheese once or twice to ensure
that the brine penetrates all sides. Drain for about an hour on a
cloth covered rack. Cover and refrigerate. Keeps for a week or more,
longer than most fresh cheeses.

Posted on GEnie Food & Wine RT Aug 22, 1992 by COOKIE.LADY [MUMSIE]

MM by MMCONV and Sylvia Steiger, GEnie THE.STEIGERS, CI$ 71511,2253,
Internet sylvia.steiger@lunatic.com, moderator of GT Cookbook and
PlanoNet Lowfat & Luscious echoes

