Title: MU SHU ARMADILLO
Categories: Meat, Armadillo
Yield: 4 Servings
3/4 lb Boneless armadillo
-tenderloin, trimmed of fat,
-cut into matchstick-size
-shreds about 1 1/2 in long
1 1/2 tb Vegetable oil
2 lg Eggs, lightly beaten
4 c  Shredded green cabbage
-(1/3 small cabbage)
10    Dried Chinese black mushroom
-soaked in hot water for 20
-minutes, drained, stems
-removed, caps thinly sliced
8 ea Scallions, green part only,
-cut into 1-inch lengths
1/2 c  Hoisin sauce
8 ea Mandarin pancakes or flour
-tortillas, steamed
Marinade 2 1/2 tablespoons reduced-sodium soy sauce 1 1/2 tablespoons
rice wine or sake 1 teaspoon sesame oil

Minced Seasonings 6 cloves garlic, minced 1 1/2 tablespoons minced
fresh ginger

Sauce 3 tablespoons chicken broth 2 tablespoons rice wine or sake 1
tablespoon soy sauce 1 tablespoon cornstarch 1/2 teaspoon sugar 1/4
teaspoon freshly ground black pepper

Marinate armadillo: In a medium-sized bowl, combine marinade
ingredients. Add armadillo and toss lightly to coat. Cover with
plastic wrap and refrigerate for
30    minutes.

Mix minced seasonings: In a small bowl, combine garlic and ginger; set
aside.

Make sauce: In a small bowl, combine sauce ingredients and blend
well; set aside.

Stir-fry mu shu filling: Heat a wok or large skillet over high heat,
add 1/2 tablespoon of the vegetable oil and heat until very hot. Add
the marinated armadillo and stir-fry until the meat is cooked
through, about 2 minutes. Remove with a slotted spoon and set aside.
Cook down any remaining juices to a glaze and add to the armadillo.
Add another 1/2 tablespoon oil to the wok and heat until very hot.
Add eggs and stir-fry, scrambling them until just dry. Remove and set
aside.

Add the remaining 1/2 tablespoon oil and heat until very hot, add the
reserved minced seasoning and stir-fry until fragrant, 10 to 15
seconds. Add cabbage and mushrooms and stir-fry until tender, about 2
minutes. Pour in the reserved sauce mixture and stir constantly until
thickened, about 1 minute. Return the armadillo and eggs to the pan
and toss until heated through. Stir in scallions. Transfer to a
platter.

To serve, spread some hoisin sauce over a steamed pancake or tortilla,
spoon some of the stir-fried mixture on top, roll up and eat. Walt

