Title: MUSHROOM & LEEK CREPES
Categories: Low, Fat
Yield: 1 Servings
3 c  Sliced leeks
1/2 c  Dry white wine
2 1/2 c  Thinly sliced or small-diced
Domestic mushrooms
2 1/4 oz Fresh shiitake mushrooms
1 ts Balsamic vinegar
Salt
Freshly ground black pepper
1 tb Italian parsley or mixed
Herbs
Crepe Batter:
1/2 c  Unbleached all-purpose flour
1/2 c  Whole-wheat pastry flour
1/3 c  Masa harina (a type of corn
Flour)
2 c  Water
Sauce:
5 oz Dried shiitake mushrooms
4 lg Onions, roughly chopped
4 c  Domestic mushrooms
6 c  Water
2 c  Dry red wine
6 tb Semolina flour
Freshly chopped parsley or
Other herb for garnish
For filling, braise leeks in white wine for 20 minutes. Add domestic
and fresh shiitake mushrooms. Add balsamic vinegar to mushrooms and
cook until all liquid has been released and is mostly reduced. Add
salt and pepper to taste before mushrooms have been completely
cooked. Toss with parsley or mixed herbs. There should be 5 cups
filling.

For the crepe batter, sift flours and masa harina together. Mix in
water until batter forms light cream that can coat wooden spoon. If
batter is lumpy, you can blend it in blender. Make test crepe. Ladle
about 3 ounces of batter onto nonstick skillet.  Cook until golden on
both sides. The crepe should be wafer-thin and malleable; if not, add
more water and mix again.  There should be about 3 cups batter,
enough for 14 crepes.

For sauce, add shiitake mushrooms, onions, and domestic mushrooms to
water. Cook for 30-45 minutes, until onions become soft and some of
liquid is reduced.  Use slotted spoon to remove onions and mushrooms,
reserving liquid.  There should be about 1 1/2 cups remaining. Add 2
cups red wine to stock and cook for a few minutes on very high flame
to reduce alcohol. Gradually whisk semolina flour into simmering hot
stock until thickened but still pourable.  There should be about 2
2/3 cups sauce.

Preheat oven to 375 [degrees] F.  For each crepe, fill with 1/3 cup
filling and top with 1 1/2 tablespoons sauce. Roll and place in
baking pan. Repeat until all 14 crepes are made. Ladle more sauce
over crepes in baking dish and bake 10 minutes, or just until hot.
Use chopped parsley or chopped fresh herbs as garnish.

Per serving (2 crepes):

Calories: 325 Cholesterol: 0 mg Total fat: 1.3 gm Saturated fat: 0.1
gm

From Dr. Dean Ornish's Program for Reversing Heart Disease.

From:    sally charette
<ECZ5SCC@MVS.OAC.UCLA.EDU>

Filling: Converted to MM by Donna Webster Donna@webster.demon.co.uk
Submitted By DONNA@WEBSTER.DEMON.CO.UK On THU, 02 NOV 1995
210951    GMT

