Title: NO BOIL LASAGNA
Categories: None
Yield: 1 Servings
1 lb Ground beef
1/2 lb Sweet Italian sausage,
-removed from its casing and
-broken into small chunks
5 c  Basic tomato sauce
12 oz Frozen chopped spinach
24 oz Ricotta cheese
2 lg Eggs
1/2 c  Grated Parmesian
1 tb Salt
Olive oil, or butter, for
-greasing the baking pan
1 lb Lasagna noodles
1 lb Mozzarella, thinly sliced
-or grated
EQUIPMENT

large frying pan - colander - medium saucepan - 9" x 13" baking pan -
2 large bowls - aluminum foil

METHOD

Preheat oven to 350 F.

Place large frying pan on high heat and let it get very hot, about 45
seconds.  Add ground beef and sausage and brown, stirring frequently,
until meat is cooked through. Transfer meat to a colander and let fat
drain. Then transfer to a large bowl, add the tomato sauce and stir
to combine. In a medium saucepan over medium-high heat, cook the
spinach in enough boiling water to cover, until cooked through about
5 minutes. (The spinach can also be cooked in the microwave.)
Transfer to a colander and rinse with cold water.  Squeeze small
clumps of spinach between your hands until the water is thoroughly
extracted. Transfer spinach to large bowl. Add ricotta, eggs, 1/4 cup
parmesian, and mix well. Lightly oil or butter baking pan. Spoon in
just enough meat sauce to cover the bottom. Cover sauce with a layer
of pasta, laying strips lengthwise, side by side, and up to edges of
pan. Cover pasta with 1/4 of remaining sauce and top with 1/2 the
mozzarella. Cover mozarella with second layer of pasta and coat pasta
with 1/3 of remaining sauce. Spread on all of ricotta-spinach mixture
in a even layer and cover it with a third layer of pasta. Spread on
1/2 of the remaining sauce and top with the remaining mozzarella.
Arrange fourth layer of pasta and cover with final layer of sauce.
Sprinkle on remaining 1/4 cup Parmesian.  Cover pan securely with
foil and bake until cheese melts and noodles are cooked through,
about 50 minutes. Remove lasagna from oven and let rest for 5 minutes
before serving.

(Taken from Our Home's Newsletter, any typos would, of course, be
mine.)

Using my husband's account,

Sarah

