Title: NORTH CAROLINA BARBEQUE
Categories: Pork & ham, Bar-b-q
Yield: 12 Servings
2    Pork picnic shoulder roasts
6 lb Each,
Bone in, rind removed
12    Cloves garlic -- peeled
3 c  Cider vinegar
MOPPING SAUCE:
The 12 garlic cloves that
Cooked with the
Pork
1 ts Coarse (kosher) salt
1/4 c  Reserved pork-simmering
Liquid
3/4 ts Sugar
1 tb Cayenne
1/4 ts Freshly ground black pepper
3 1/2 c  Cider vinegar
MIXING SAUCE:
1 1/2 c  Reserved Mopping Sauce
1/4 c  Reserved pork-simmering
Liquid
1/3 c  Smoky-flavored barbecue
Sauce (not
Too sweet)
Salt
Hot-pepper sauce for
Seasoning at
Table
Place the roasts, the garlic, and the 3 cups of vinegar in a very
large deep stockpot or flameproof casserole. (If necessary, divide
the roasts, garlic, and vinegar evenly between 2 smaller pots.) Add
water to cover by at least 2 inches and bring to a boil over high
heat. Reduce the heat, partially cover, and simmer for 2-1/2 hours,
adding boiling water as needed to keep the meat covered.  Remove the
roasts from the pot, reserving the cooked garlic cloves and 1/2 cup
of the pork-simmering liquid. Place the roasts on a rack in a large
roasting pan. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees.

Meanwhile, prepare the Mopping Sauce.  In a large bowl, mash the
cooked garlic to a paste with the salt. Add 1/4 cup of the reserved
pork-simmering liquid, the sugar, cayenne, pepper and 3-1/2 cups of
vinegar and mix well. Remove 1-1/2 cups of the Mopping Sauce and set
it aside to be used later in the Mixing Sauce. Use the remaining
Mopping Sauce to baste the pork as it roasts.  With a clean new
dishmop or paintbrush, baste the roasts with Mopping Sauce and place
them in a 350 degree oven. Immediately reduce the heat to 300
degrees. Cook for 2 hours, basting every 15 minutes and turning once
or twice.  Use all of the Mopping Sauce (but none of the reserved
Mopping Sauce). Remove the pork from the oven and transfer to a large
chopping board.  Spoon or pour all fat out of the roasting pan and
set the pan aside.  Do not wash it. The pork roasts should be a
little crusty on the outside and very tender and moist inside.
Discard the bones and remove any fat.  With a heavy large knife,
chop/shred the lean pork fairly fine. Transfer to a large bowl and
cover loosely to keep warm and moist.

Proceed immediately to make the Mixing Sauce.  Place the empty,
unwashed roasting pan over very low heat and add 1/2 cup of the
reserved Mopping Sauce.  Scrape the pan to loosen caramelized juices
and browned bits, stirring quickly and constantly so none of the
flavorful liquid evaporates. Pour every last drop of this "essence of
barbecue" back into the remaining reserved Mopping Sauce.  Add the
1/4 cup of reserved pork-simmering liquid. Stir in the smoky-flavored
barbecue sauce and season with salt to taste. This Mixing Sauce will
mellow considerably as the barbecue "ripens." Add half the Mixing
Sauce to the chopped pork and mix well. Gradually blend in the
remaining Mixing Sauce. Let cool, cover tightly, and refrigerate for
at least 12 hours to let the flavor develop. (Chopped barbecue can be
prepared in advance and refrigerated for up to 2 days, or frozen for
up to 2 months.)  Let return to room temperature before reheating,
covered, in a microwave oven or 300 degree conventional oven. Adjust
the seasonings as necessary and serve hot. Cole slaw is traditional
with chopped barbecue, and hot-pepper sauce is a must.

:
Recipe By

From: D_swartz@gate.Net (Debbie Deneese

