Title: NORTH-SOUTH ONION PANCAKES
Categories: Oriental, Breads
Yield: 8 Servings
3 c  Flour, cake or all-purpose
1 c  Boiling water
1/4 c  Cold water
-or more if dough
-feels too dry
3 tb Shortening
Vegetable oil for pan frying
MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
3 oz Boneless breast of chicken
- skinned, diced
1/2 ts Cornstarch
1/4 ts Cooking sherry
1/4 lb Chinese sausage; diced
1 tb Chinese dried shrimp; minced
1 ts Vegetable oil
3 oz Chinese barbecued pork
- diced
1 bn Green onions; minced
1 ts Oyster sauce (optional)
1 ts Soy sauce
1/4 ts Sugar
1/4 ts Salt
MEASURE FLOUR into a large mixing bowl; add boiling water, stirring
quickly with chopsticks or fork, then add cold water and mix well.
Work dough until smooth and supple. Roll dough into shape of a ball.
Cover well with plastic wrap or damp cloth; set aside to rest for 1
hour at room temperature. Place the chicken in a small bowl; add
cornstarch, cooking sherry and pinch of salt. Set aside and
refrigerate and let marinate until ready to use. Stir-fry Chinese
sausage and dried shrimp in hot vegetable oil in a small frying pan
over high heat for 1 minute. Add chicken with its marinade and
stir-fry for another 2 minutes. Quickly stir in barbecued pork and
3/4 cup of the minced onions. (Set aside remaining onions for pancake
wrappers.) Immediately season with the oyster sauce, soy sauce, sugar
and salt, and mix well. Turn off heat; divide into 16 portions and
set aside. Knead dough until smooth and divide equally into 16
pieces; cover with plastic wrap. Work 1 piece of dough at a time,
keeping the rest covered in plastic wrap. Take a piece of dough and
rub both sides with a bit of shortening, then roll out with a rolling
pin to 6 inches in diameter. Again rub shortening (about 1 teaspoon)
onto 1 side of the dough; sprinkle evenly with about 1 teaspoon
minced scallions and a pinch of salt. Curl up the dough from 1 end
into a long, narrow cylinder; then curl up again lengthwise into a
snail-like cylinder. Place the dough on its broad side and roll out
again with a rolling pin into a piece about 4 inches in diameter.
Place one portion of filling in center of dough and seal well on top
by pinching the dough like a dumpling. Flatten into a 2-inch-diameter
onion pancake. Set aside. Repeat until all the dough is prepared. Pan
fry the onion pancakes in a thin layer of hot vegetable oil over
medium heat, about 2 minutes on each side or until golden brown. Pat
the onion pancakes gently with a paper towel to remove excess oil
before serving. Makes 16 Pancakes, or 8 Servings

