Title: OLD FASHIONED VEAL STEW WITH CREAM SAUCE
Categories: Meats, French, Sauces, Soups/stews
Yield: 6 Servings
3 lb To 3 1/2 lbs boneless veal
-shoulder cubed
1 ts Salt
5 tb Butter
18    Peeled white onions
Water
1 lb Fresh mushrooms, quartered
6 2/3 c  Chicken stock
2    Carrots peeled and cut into
-strips
1 ts Lemon juice
3 tb Flour
1    Onion
2    Egg yolks
2    Celery tops
1 c  Heavy cream
1    Leek
Salt
1 ts Thyme
White pepper
1    Bay leaf
2 tb Finely chopped parsley
4    Parsley sprigs
In a heavy casserole, blanch the veal by covering with cold water,
bringing it to a boil over high heat and boiling for one minute.
Drain, and rinse under cold water. Return the veal to the casserole
(which has been wiped clean) and add 6 cups of the chicken stock,
carrots, onion, celery, leek, herbs  and  salt. The meat should be
covered in liquid; if not, add more water.  Bring to a  boil  and
simmer  over moderate heat partially covered for 1-11/2 hrs  until
the meat is tender.

Meanwhile, combine 2/3 cups of the chicken stock, 2 TB of butter and
the white onions in a skillet. Bring to a boil and simmer 15-20
minutes. Remove with a slotted spoon to a bowel. Stir the mushrooms
and lemon juice to the remaining liquid in skillet. Bring to a boil,
cover and simmer for 5 minutes. With a slotted spoon, remove the
mushrooms to the bowel with the onions. Pour all remaining liquid
into  the simmering veal.

When  the  veal is done, remove from casserole. Strain the stock
through a fine sieve , return to casserole and boil until reduced to
1/2. In a small saucepan, melt 3 TB of butter and stir in flour. Cook
this "roux" for 2 minutes and remove from heat. Pour the reduced
stock in and blend with a whisk. Then return it to the heat, and cook
stirring constantly until the sauce comes to a boil  and  thickens.
Simmer for about 10 minutes. Remove from heat.

In a bowl whisk together egg yolks and cream. Whisk in the hot sauce
2 TB at a time until 1/2 cup has been added. Then reverse the process
and whisk the egg-cream-sauce mixture into the hot sauce. (This is to
prevent curdling.) Bring  to a boil in the sauce pan, season with
salt and white pepper and a few drops of lemon juice.

Place  the  veal and vegetables in the large casserole and pour the
sauce over. Toss and heat gently. Sprinkle with parsley and serve.

From: The Cooking of Provincial France, Time/Life Foods of the World
Series

