Title:  Kathy Pitts' Frijoles Refritos (Refried Beans)
Categories: Tex/mexican, Vegetables
Yield: 1 batch
-1 cup may be beer
1 ts Ground cumin
1 tb Mexican oregano
Lard/drippings for frying
Grated mild cheddar
Cheese for garnish (optl)
2 c  Beans, well washed and
-picked over
1 lg Onion, finely chopped
1 sm Dried red chile pepper
-crushed
6 c  Water or ham broth. Up to
Do not soak the beans overnight (Mexican cooks don't).  Instead,
place all ingredients in a deep pot, and bring to a boil.  Turn off
the heat, cover, and allow the beans to sit for an hour.

Return the beans to a boil, reduce heat, and simmer until the beans
are tender (to test, remove one bean from the pot, and blow on it.
If the skin splits, they're done).  Cooking time will depend on the
type of bean used (pintos cook fairly quickly, black beans take close
to forever), the age of the bean, and the mineral content of your
water.

Salt to taste.  Never salt beans at the beginning of the cooking
process, as the salt will toughen them and they will take longer to
cook.

In a large shallow pan, preferably a black iron frying pan, melt 3
Tbsp. of lard or drippings.  When the lard is melted, ladle about a
cup of beans, including some of the cooking liquid, into the fat.
Use a potato masher to mash the beans into a puree.  Continue adding
beans and liquid, along with more fat as needed, and mashing until
all beans have been used.

The consistancy of this dish varies with personal preferance.  Some
cooks like a very smooth, almost liquid puree, while other prefer a
stiffer mixture with some pieces of bean remaining.  The end result
should be glossy, well flavored from the fat, and very rich tasting.

The beans may be served plain, used as a filling for warm tortillas,
or garnished with shredded cheese.

A bean and cheese taco (refried beans, shredded cheese in a fresh
tortilla) is one of my favorite things to have for breakfast.  They
are also good served as an accompaniment for scrambled eggs.

NOTE:  Some Mexican recipes for beans call for a sprig of Epasote (ep-
puh-ZOH-tay) to be cooked with the beans.  This is an herb/weed known
as Pigweed in the U.S.  It doesn't dry well, but it is very easy to
grow (U.S. farmers consider it a pest).  If you can get ahold of a
plant, it's worth cultivating, as it adds a nice, if undefinable
flavor to the bean pot. It is not common in Tex-Mex beans, however,
so if you encounter it in a recipe, feel free to omit it.

Kathy in Bryan, TX

