Title: About Jams, Jellies and Preserves -1
Categories: Dips/spread, Fruit, Can/preserv, Information
Yield: 1 text file  The less sugar you use the greater the flavor impact of the fruit. If
honey is used there will be a flavor change and the jellies/jams must
be cooked longer. If you use artificial sweeteners use only the
Cyclamate type to avoid bitterness and follow the manufacturer's
instructions. Cooked down jellies in which the juice is extracted by
the open kettle method contain 60% fruit versus commercial products
[pressure cooked to extract more juice but pectin destroying] with
only 45%

Jelly: has great clarity from dripping the cooked fruit through a
cloth before adding sugar and finishing.

Jams, Butter and Pastes: are whole fruit purees of increasing density.

Marmalades, Preserves and Conserves: are bits of fruit in a heavy
syrup.

High Pectin Fruits: Apples, Crabapples, Quinces, Red Currants,
Gooseberries, Plums and Cranberries. These need no additional pectin.
If you get syrupy jelly you used too much sugar or did not cook the
juice long enough after adding the sugar.

Low Pectin Fruits: Strawberries, Blueberries, Peaches, Apricots,
Cherries, Pears, Blackberries, Raspberries, Grapes, Pineapple and
Rhubarb. These require combining with high pectin fruits or adding a
commercial pectin.

To Test Pectin Content: Put 1 tbl cooled fruit juice in a glass. Add
an equal amount of grain alcohol and shake gently. The alcohol will
bring the pectin together in a gel. If a large amount of pectin is
present it will appear in a single mass or clot when poured from the
glass. Use equal amounts of juice and sugar.  If the pectin collects
in several small particles use have as much sugar as juice.

To sterilize jelly glasses: fill jars 3/4 full of water and place
them in a shallow pan partly filled with water. Simmer 15 min and
then keep hot until filled. If the lids are placed on the steaming
jars they will be sterilized simultaneously.

Tips: -Use enamel or stainless steel pots not aluminum or copper.
-On average, use 3/4 c sugar to 1 c fruit or juice depending on
pectin content[see above].
-Very acid fruits can tolerate a whole c of sugar.
-Sterilize jars and seal tightly.
-For fruit that tends to discolor add lemon juice or Ascorbic
acid.
-Keep in a cool dark place but do not refrigerate.

Making Jam: is easiest and most economical as it needs only one
cooking step and uses the pulp. Measure the fruit. In putting it in
the pan, crush the lower layers to provide moisture until more is
drawn out by cooking or add a little water. Simmer the fruit until it
is soft. Add sugar and stir until dissolved. Bring to a boil,
stirring to avoid sticking. Reduce heat and cook until thickened- up
to 1/2 hr.

Making Preserves and Conserves: Place fruit in a pot with an equal
amount of sugar in layers ending with sugar on top and allow to rest
overnight. Bring slowly to a boil and simmer until fruit is
translucent. Drain fruit and put in sterile jars. Simmer syrup longer
if necessary to thicken it and pour over fruit. Seal and store.
Submitted By JIM WELLER   On   11-26-95

