Title: About Clams
Categories: Fish/seafoo, Information
Yield: 1 info file
Information only
Although any edible clam can be used in clam chowder, in New England
it comes down to either the soft-shelled, or steamer, clam or the
quahog.  In most clam chowder recipes, I substitue quahogs for
steamers if the recipe calls for steamers.  I do this for two
reasons:  First, steamers are a lot more expensive, due to their more
delicate flavor and gentler texture. But the best reason of all is
because you can do so many other things with steamers (Steamed clams,
of course, but also battered and fried, added to fritters, etc.)
Quahogs are tougher - it has been said of quahogs that for them "it's
either the chowder pot or the rubber band factory."  One other point:
quahogs are a lot less gritty on the inside, being tight closers.
Steamers tend to hold a lot of sand.

Now for quahogs:  It's both the name of the kind of clam, and the
name of the largest variety of that kind.  If your local market has a
really good seafood department, you've seen various sizes of quahogs
sorted under these names (starting with the smallest):  Littlenecks,
cherrystones, mediums (sometimes - I find most mediums are being
called cherrystones now) and quahogs (also called "chowder clams" or
"stuffing clams"). Littlenecks and cherrystones are usually served
raw; mediums are usually steamed open and served on the half shell;
and quahogs are used in chowders and in stuffed clams.  Not only are
quahogs big, so they yield a lot of meat for a chowder, but as I've
mentioned, they are tight and don't pick up a lot of sand.  They need
a knife to open raw and even then it's difficult.  Although I've seen
suggestions to pour boiling water over them to get them to yawn a
little, you'll need a knife even then.  I prefer to just steam them
open.  Like any other clam, they'll open up wide when steamed.  This
also gives you the advantage of knowing before you use them whether
they're good or not.  A bad clam won't open in the steamer.

Posted to COOKING by Dave Sacerdote, 12/95
Submitted By DAVE SACERDOTE   On   12-06-95

