Title: Baker's Craft Dough
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 servings
1 tb Cooking oil (easier to work)
1/4 ts Food color
1/4 ts Clove or peppermint oil
4 c  Unsifted flour
1 c  Salt
1 1/2 c  Water
1 tb Powdered Alum (preservative)
MMMMM--------------------OPTIONAL INGREDIENTS-------------------------
Clear shellac
Acrylic paints
Spray acrylic fixative
MMMMM-----------------------FOR FINISHING----------------------------
Mix together flour, salt, and alum.  With a big wooden spoon, slowly
stir in the water, oil, coloring, and scent.  Keep mixing until the
dough follows the spoon around the bowl and then knead with your
hands until smooth.  The initial kneading will only take a minute or
two to get the dough going and to make it pliable.  After that you
will knead as you work into smaller pieces and the dough will stay
soft.

Store dough in the refrigerator until ready to use.  It will remain
in good condition for up to 4 weeks.  Let it warm to room temperature
before using.

To Use:
Generously flour the work surface and pinch off just enough
:
dough to mold with.  Leave the rest in a plastic bag until needed.
Fill a small bowl with water to use as glue when you want to stick
pieces together.
When you have made an item you want to keep, place it on a
:
floured cookie sheet and bake in the oven at 250 degrees fo at least
an hour. Baking time varies considerably depending on the thickness
of the object. It's a good idea to check for doneness by inserting a
toothpick into the thickest part of the item.  If you think your
ornaments aore getting too brown, cover them with aluminum foil, turn
down the oven, and compensate by cooking a bit longer.
After the item is completely dry, you can paint ti with
:
acrylic paints and then either paint it with shellac or spray it with
several coats of acrylic fixative.

Ideas:
This dough is used quite successfully for creating
:
homey-looking Christmas ornaments.  When my kids were little, I
helped them make their own creations each year for the tree and now I
treasure these ornaments.
Try helping  children create their own handprints by
:
outstretching their hands shile you carefully cut around their
fingers with a dull paring knife.  Or they can press their handprints
into a plaque-size circle of dough.
All sorts of kitchen implements can be used to gi e
:
interesting textures to the dough.  By far the most interesting
effects can be created by forcing the dough through a garlic press.
The resulting threads can be used for a bird's nest, hair, animal
fur, and of course, spaghetti. Just remember to "glue" the strands
together with water as you go. Add teeny little eggs to a nest or
roll out some meatballs for a bowl of spaghetti.
Another natural creation for Baker's Craft dough is to make a
:
bread basket, bagel, or pretend muffins out of it.  To make a basket,
roll out and cut thick strips of dough.  Drape several, close
together, across and inverted, heavily floured loaf pan or baking
dish.  Weave strips in the opposes direction through the original
ones.  Create a lattice work design and finish off the edges as if
you were creating a fancy pie.  Bake your creation, pan and all, in
the oven and lift the basket off the pan when it is completely cool.

Hints:
A rolling pin is extremely useful for flattening the dough,
:
but if you have many little hands around the table at once, cans of
soup  or veggies will work just as well.
You can finish the smaller items by coating them with clear
:
nail polish.  Or try brushing them with evaporated milk if you want
your creations to look brown and golden, like baked goods.
: Recipe By
:
-----OPTIONAL INGREDIENTS-----

