Title: Bloomin' Onion
Categories: Vegetables
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM---------------------OUTBACK STEAKHOUSE--------------------------
2 tb Flour
1 c  Cracker crumbs, crushed
1    Sweet onion
1    Eggs
1 tb Milk
Select a well-rounded onion. Peel outer skin but leave root intact,
cutting off any hanging roots.  With ordinary paring knife, core out
top third of center.  Angle knife for best results.  Divide onion
into four sections, by making 2 cuts crosswise, beginning at the top
and cutting toward the root, stopping about 1/2-inch away.  Cut each
section twice again. Place onion in bowl of enough boiling water to
cover it and leave for 5 minutes. The sections, or "petals," will
begin to open.

Remove onion from hot water and immerse in ice water, which will
further the opening.  Drain well by turning upside down on a paper
towel.

Put flour into paper bag (season with any seasonings you'd
like--Cajun, cayenne, plain ol' s&p, etc), add onion and shake gently
to coat with flour.  Beat egg and milk; roll floured onion in egg.
Put cracker crumbs in paper bag, add onion, and shake gently to coat.
Refrigerate 1 hour before deep frying to set the coating.

Heat oil to 375-380 degrees. If oil isn't hot enough, it will be
greasy and the batter may not stick.  If oil is too hot, outside will
burn before inside is cooked.  Place onion petal-side DOWN in HOT oil
or use a wire basket.  Cook until golden brown, 3-5 minutes.

Cooked onion can be kept for a time in a warm oven.  Serve with sauce
made of Russian dressing and horseradish.

Comment from MICHELLE BASS on F-Cooking If serving the next day, fry
the onions until pale gold; do not fry completely. Let cool.  When
ready to serve, reheat the oil to 380F and fry the onions just long
enough to heat and brown, about 15 seconds. Drain and serve. To get
the same taste without making mums, simply cut onions vertically to
make "petals" or crosswise and separate into rings. This can be done
ahead and the petals or rings kept in ice water. Egg, flour and fry
as above. This is from the column "Culinary Q&A" by Myriam Guidroz in
the New Orleans Times-Picayune. These are not only delicious but
attractive. Mrs. Guidroz, who is from Belgium, says that they fry
their potatoes twice so she tried making these and refried one the
next day.  Bingo! Delicious crisp fried onion in about 15 seconds.
She does warn that the smell of onions clings to your clothes and
hair so warns against doing them in party attire.

Posted on GEnie by L.MAGEE [LINDA]

MM by Sylvia Steiger, GEnie THE.STEIGERS, CI$ 71511,2253, GT Cookbook
echo moderator at net/node 004/005
Submitted By JR BYERS   On   12-15-95

