Title: Boiled Meat Dumplings (Shwei Jaudz, Shui Jiao-Tse)
Categories: Chinese, Guestchefs, Meats
Yield: 10 as an appe
3/4 ts Salt
1/2 ts MSG
3 tb Sesame oil
1/4 ts Pepper, ground fine
1 tb Ginger root, minced
Dumplings:
3 c  Flour
3/4 c  Water, ice-cold
Flour to prevent sticking
8 oz Cabbage, chopped fine
1 ts Salt
1 c  Water
2 oz Garlic chives or
Scallions, green part,
Minced
8 oz Pork loin, not too lean,
Chopped fine or
-ground coarse
Sprinkle cabbage with salt. Let stand 15 min. Drain. Add 1 c water and
squeeze dry, discarding liquid. Add chives and pork. Mix all together
with seasoning ingredients.

Knead flour and water together until it is a smooth dough. Let rest
10 min. Roll out into a long cylinder and divide into 48 or 50
pieces. Roll out each piece into a 2" circle.

Put 1/3 oz filling (appx) in each circle. Fold circles over and seal
with water, pleating one side artistically as you go (optional!). If
you pleat, you will get one crinkled side and one straight side, and
the dumplings will pull into a slightly curved or crescent shape;
otherwise you will have straight, flat, boring-looking dumplings that
still taste fine.

Cooking procedure 1:

Boil 12 c water. Lower heat to low. Cook dumplings for 4 min, covered,
stirring occasionally. This produces a standard restaurant dumpling.

Cooking procedure 2:

Boil 10 c water. Add 1/3 the dumplings and stir. Cover and let water
return to a boil. Add 1/2 c icy cold water. Stir. Cover again and let
water return to a boil. Add another 1/2 c icy cold water. Stir. Cover
a third time and let water return to a boil. Remove dumplings
immediately and drain them. Repeat the entire procedure until
dumplings are done. This is said to produce a more delicate dumpling,
but I don't recall ever having tried it myself.

Sauce 1:

1   c soy sauce 1/2 c broth (cooking water will do!) 1 t white
vinegar or cider vinegar 1/2 t sesame oil 1/4 t sugar 1 t scallion,
chopped, including green part

Sauce 2:

1   c soy sauce 1/2 c broth 1/2 t sesame oil 1/4 t hot pepper oil or
1/4 t red pepper flakes

Sauce 3, I am not kidding: 1 c A-1 sauce 1/2 c broth

From:    Michael Loo

refined from Wei-chuan cook book Chinese Snacks

