Title: CHALLAH, FAVORITE RECIPE
Categories: Breads
Yield: 12 servings
3    Eggs
7 c  Unbleached flour (approx.)
1    Egg yold mixed w/ 1 T water
1 1/2 c  Golden raising (optional)
1 1/4 c  Cold water
2 pk Dry yeast
2 ts Salt
6 tb Butter or Margarine
1/2 c  Sugar (+ 1 T if desired)
In large bowl of electric mixer, thoroughly mix undissolved yeast
with 1/3 of the flour and all other dry ingredients. In a 2 to 4 cup
measure, start with 1 1/4 cups cold water.  Add margarine, then add
enough water to make 2 cups liquid.  Heat liquids with margarine over
low heat unitl very warm, 110 to 120 degrees.  Margarine does not need
to melt. Add liquids to dry ingredients.  Beat for 2 minutes at medium
speed of electric mixer, scraping bowl occasionally. Add about 1/2 cup
flour, or enough flour to make a thick batter. Add the 3 eggs one at a
time.  Beat on high speed for 2 minutes, scraping bowl occasionally.
Use dough hook or wooden spoon to stir, adding all but one cup of
flour or as much as is needed to make elastic dough.  Amount will vary
according to temperature and humidity of room.  If raisins are used,
add here and stir thoroughly. Turn dough out on floured surface,
kneading until it becomes smooth and satiny to the touch. Add more
flour if needed. Place dough in well-greased bowl, turning to grease
top of dough. Cover with plastic wrap and let rise until doubled in
bulk, about 1 to 1 1/2 hours. Punch down. Return to lightly floured
board.  Cut into desired amount of loaves.  This recipe makes 1 very
large, 2 large or 3 medium loaves. Cut amount of dough desired.
Stretch into one strand and twist to form a crown. Paint egg mixture.
Repeat with remaining dough. Tops may be sprinkled with sesame or
poppy seeds. After bread has risen for about an hour, brush any dry
areas with egg wash.  Prick any air bubbles.  Bake in 375-degree oven
for 25 to 30 minutes, until browned.  A flick of finger should produce
a hollow sound. Remove to rack to cool. Challah freezes well but
should be thoroughly cooled before wrapping in heavy foil.

