Title: Cheese Stuffed Chicken Breast!
Categories: Poultry
Yield: 4 servings
2 tb FRESH (not dried) basil
1 ts Garlic
1 ts Salt
1 c  SEASONED bread crumbs
4    Boneless skinless chicken
-breasts
1 pk (2 cups)  Mozerrela cheese
(May substitute for -- low
-fat)
This will most likely be the BEST chicken breast you will ever eat. It
is somewhat lowfat and good for you too!

This is one of my FAVORITE low fat recipies for chicken breasts. This
is VERY flavorful and very filling.

FILLING: Chop mozerrela cheese finely so it takes up less space.  Take
cheese, garlic, salt, basil and combine in a bowl.  If fresh basil is
not available, take 2 tablespoons of dried basil and let soak in 3
tablespoons of water for a few hours until it becomes soft.  Plain
dried basil will not work properly!  Let bowl sit at ROOM TEMPRATURE
while preparing chicken.

CHICKEN: Pound chicken breasts until they are very thin.  Use meat
mallet, crab mallet whatever, just don't put any holes in the chicken
itself.  Then bread the chicken on both sides with the seasoned bread
crumbs.  Once they are all breaded, place a generous amount of the
cheese mixture into the center of the chicken breast.  Remember,
cheese compreses easily, you can stuff more than you think in there!
Fold in the sides and roll it up.  Secure with a toothpick (or 2 or
3) :-). BAKE: Bake in an oven at 350 for about 45-60 minutes
depending on how many.  If the chicken is cooked, its done.

VARIATIONS:
I used the remainder of my cheeze and basil to make a sauce one time
that came out excellent.  All you have to do is melt 1/2 a stick of
butter in a pan, add about 1/4 cup of flour.  Add about 2 cups of
milk, and the cheese mixture.  Then just add milk till you get a
creamy sauce.  It makes a WONDERFUL topper for the dish, however it
also raises the fat content of the dish (butter).

Definatly give this one a shot, this one of my family's FAVORITE
dishes. It's also very easy to prepare.

Robert W. Mech   21 Oct 1994

:
Recipe By

Date: 11-17-95 (14:43)
From: Marjorie Scofield
(159) Fido: Cooking

