Title: Chocolate Pb/jeebies
Categories: Cake/cookie, Chocolate, Nuts/grains
Yield: 40 servings
Chocolate, broken
1 1/2 c  Firmly packed light brown
Sugar
3/4 c  Unsalted butter
3    Eggs
1 ts Real vanilla
9 oz Semisweet chocolate chips
9 oz Peanut butter chips
1/2 c  Unsweetened Dutch Process
Cocoa
1 1/2 c  Unbleached baking flour
1 ts Baking soda
1/2 ts Salt
8 oz Semisweet baking chocolate,
Broken
4 oz Unsweetened baking
*[1 c  Whipping cream -- not ultrapasteurized 2 tb Unsalted butter 2
tb Granulated sugar 12 oz Semisweet baking chocolate, -broken]
To prepare Cookies: Preheat oven to 325 degrees.

Sift together cocoa, flour, baking soda and salt onto a sheet of wax
paper. Set aside.

Heat 1 inch of water in the bottom of a double boiler over medium
heat. Place semisweet and unsweetened baking chocolate in top half of
the double boiler. Tightly cover the top pan with plastic wrap and
heat 12 to 15 minutes. Remove from heat and stir chocolate until
smooth. Keep at room temperature. Or, melt in microwave.

Place brown sugar and butter in the bowl of electric mixer and beat on
medium speed 1 minute. Scrape down bowl and beat on high speed
additional 30 seconds. Scrape down bowl. Add eggs, 1 at a time, while
beating on medium, stopping to scrape down bowl after incorporating
each addition.

Add vanilla and beat on medium 30 seconds. Add melted baking
chocolate and beat on low 10 seconds more. Scrape down bowl and beat
additional 30 seconds. Add flour mixture and beat on low until
thoroughly combined, 20 to 30 seconds. Remove bowl from mixer, add
chocolate chips and peanut butter chips; mix thoroughly with rubber
spatula.

Place 6 to 8 cookies per baking sheet (each cookie is approximately 2
tsp. Put sheets in middle of oven.  Bake for 18 to 20 minutes, Cool
cookies on pans 5 to 6 minutes. Transfer cookies to wire rack. Repeat
procedure until all cookies have been baked. Cool cookies thoroughly
before storing in sealed plastic container.

*[To prepare Chocolate Dipping Sauce: Heat cream, butter and sugar in
saucepan over medium-high heat. When hot, stir to dissolve sugar.
Bring mixture to boil. Place chocolate in stainless steel bowl and
pour boiling cream over chocolate. Let stand 5 minutes. Stir until
smooth. Cool to room temperature. (Dip can be made 3 to 4 days ahead
and refrigerated. Reheat, stirring. Bring to room temperature before
using.)]

Put dip in a serving bowl, so guests can dip their cookies in before
eating. Makes about 2 1/2 cups.

Makes 3 to 3 1/2 dozen cookies.

Adapted from a recipe by Steven Ceidenburg

Date: 22 Nov 95 F-Recipes  ~--to
From: John A. Goodson
Processed: NEW.TXT Recipes saved: 1

1
Meal Master recipes:

Lines read: 99 Lines written: 96

