Title: CHOW FAN
Categories: Chinese
Yield: 4 servings
1/2 lb Mushrooms, sliced
Ginger (1"), peeled
-and minced
3    Garlic toes, peeled
-and minced
4 c  Rice, cooked, cold
6 oz Ham, diced
8 oz Snow peas, fresh or frozen
2    Eggs, beaten
2    Chicken breast halves, boned
1 ts Garlic salt, divided
2 ts Sherry, divided
2 ts Cornstarch, divided
1 lb Shrimp, cleaned and peeled
3 tb Oil, divided
1 lg Onion, finely chopped
2    Celery stalks, finely
-chopped
1 tb Soy sauce
Note:  Chow Fan is best made the day before you plan to serve it.

Cut boned chicken into 1/2 squares; place in a bowl and sprinkle with
half the garlic salt, half the sherry and half the cornstarch. Cut
the peeled shrimp into pieces 1" long.  Put them in a bowl with the
rest of the garlic salt, sherry and cornstarch.

Heat 2 T oil over high heat in a wok or large pan.  Add onions and
celery and stir-fry for 2 minutes.  Add soy sauce; reduce heat to
medium, cover and steam one minute.  Add mushrooms, cover and steam 2
more minutes. Remove mixture to a large bowl.

Add remaining oil to wok, reduce heat to low and add ginger and
garlic. Brown lightly, stirring constantly to avoid burning. Add
chicken and shrimp.  Stir-fry two minutes, or until shrimp are pink
and opaque.

Add cooked rice, onion mixture and ham.  Stir until hot.  Remove from
heat, put into a storage container and chill overnight. When ready to
serve, reheat in a wok or large pot.  Stir in snow peas and cook two
minutes. Make a well in the center of the wok and stir in the beaten
eggs. Stir them as they cook, about 3 minutes, so they scramble and
mix with the other ingredients. Cover and cook over medium heat
another couple of minutes. Serve at once.

Serves 12 as part of a family style Chinese dinner, or 4 as a main
dish.

Vicki's notes:

*  When Cathe originally gave me this recipe in the mid 70's it
called for just 3/4 cup shrimp (1/2 pound), 1/2 cup each diced onion
and celery, 1/2 cup boiled ham (1/4 lb), 1/2 cup peas (cooked just
tender), 3 eggs and sprouts. Also, just 1 clove garlic, which was
heated with the ginger (discarded when brown) before cooking the
chicken. *  I like to add 1/2 c red bell pepper (diced) for color.

