Title: CHRISTMAS BREAD PUDDING
Categories: Desserts, Meats
Yield: 12 servings
1/3 c  Candied red cherries; halved
3/4 c  Cream sherry
1 c  Water
2    Egg yolks; beaten
1/4 c  Powdered sugar; sifted
2 tb Cream sherry
1/4 ts Vanilla
1/2 c  Whipping cream
9 sl Whole Wheat Bread
8 sl White Bread
3    Egg yolks; beaten
1 1/2 c  Cream, light
1/3 c  Sugar
1 ds Salt
1 1/2 ts Vanilla
2/3 c  Raisins, light
2/3 c  Raisins, dark
Remove crusts from bread; set crusts aside for another use.  Cover
bread slices with paper towels and let stand overnight.
FOR CUSTARD, in a heavy medium saucepan combine 3 egg yolks, light
cream, sugar, and salt.  Cook and stir over medium heat.  Continue
cooking till mixture coats a metal spoon.  Remove from heat; cool at
once by placing saucepan in a sink of ice water and stirring for 1-2
minutes. Stir in 1- 1/2 teaspoons vanilla.  Cover surface with clear
plastic wrap. In a small bowl combine raisins.  Place cherries in
another bowl.  Heat 3/4 c. sherry till warm.  Pour 2/3 c. sherry over
raisins; pour remaining sherry over cherries.  Set aside.  Cut bread
into 1/2 inch cubes (should have about 9 cups).  In a bowl fold bread
into custard till coated. Grease a 6-1/2-cup tower mold (without
tube).  Drain raisins and cherries, reserving sherry.
Arrange one-fourth of cherries in bottom of the mold; sprinkle 1/3 c.
raisins into the mold.  Add one-fourth of bread-cube mixture.
Sprinkle with 2 Tablespoons reserved sherry.  Repeat layers three
times, arranging cherries and raisins near edges of the mold.
Lightly press last layer with the back of a spoon.  Pour remaining
reserved sherry over all.  Cover mold tightly with foil.
Set mold into a 4 quart crockery cooker with liner in place.  Pour 1
cup water into cooker around mold.  Cover; cook on low heat setting
abut 5 1/2 hours or on high-heat setting about 3 hours or till
pudding springs back when touched.
Meanwhile, FOR SHERRY SAUCE, in a mixing bowl combine 2 egg yolks,
powdered sugar, 2 tablesponns sherry, and 1/4 teaspons vanilla.  In a
small mixing bowl beat whipping cream with a rotary beater till soft
peaks form. Gently fold whipped cream into egg-yolk mixture.  Cover
and chill till serving time.
Remove mold from cooker and let stand 10 minutes.  Carefully unmold
pudding onto a serving platter.  Serve warm with sherry sauce.  (Or,
remove pudding from mold, cover, and chill.  To serve, return pudding
to the same mold.  Cover with foil and place in the cooker, then pour
1 cup water around mold.  Cover; cook on high-heat setting for 1
1/2-2 hours or till warm.  Let stand 10 minutes; unmold and serve
with sauce.) For 5- or 6- quart crockery cooker: Use 1 1/2 C. water
to pour around mold.
Leave remaining ingredient amounts the same.

