Title: Christmas Pudding - England - Victoria 12/95
Categories: Desserts, Puddings, Holiday, British isl
Yield: 6 servings
1 c  All-purpose flour
1/4 ts Freshly grated nutmeg
1/4 ts Ground cinnamon
1/4 ts Ground allspice
1/2 c  Dark brown sugar; firmly
-packed
2 lg Eggs; lightly beaten
1 pn Salt
Hard sauce
2 c  Raisins
1 c  Sultanas
1 c  Currants
1 c  Guiness extra stout (ale)
2/3 c  Mixed candied peel
1/4 c  Almonds; blanched, finely
-chopped
8 tb Solid shortening, suet, or
-unsalted butter
1/4 c  Fine, dry breadcrumbs
MMMMM-------------------------HARD SAUCE------------------------------
3 tb To 4 tb brandy
1 tb Orange juice
2 ts Orange rind; grated (opt'l)
2 ea Sticks unsalted butter;
-softened
1 1/4 c  Confectioners' sugar; sifted
In a nonreactive bowl combine the dried fruit and Guinness, stir to
combine, and let sit, covered, overnight.
Butter well a 1-1/2 quart pudding mold or heatproof bowl.
In a large bowl, combine the macerated fruit with the almonds,
sugar, flour, and spices.
In another bowl, combine the bread crumbs, shortening, eggs, and a
pinch of salt.  Add to the fruit mixture and stir to combine well.
Spoon the batter into the prepared mold or bowl, cover with the
lid or a double layer of buttered aluminum foil, and tie with kitchen
string.
Place the mold or bowl on a rack set in a deep pan, add enough hot
water to come halfway up the sides of the mold, and steam pudding,
covered, for 1-1/2 hours.
Let the pudding cool to warm and unmold.  Ideally, if time permits,
store in mold or bowl for approximately 4 months to allow the pudding
to mature. Reheat by steaming for another hour.  Serve with Hard
Sauce. Yield: 6 to 8 servings.

Hard Sauce:
In a bowl with an electric mixer beat the butter and sugar until
light and fluffy.  Beat in the brandy, a little at a time.  Beat in
the orange juice and rind.  Transfer to a serving dish.  Sauce may be
chilled, covered.  Bring to room temperature before serving.
Yield: 1 cup.

_Merry Old England Awaits_ "Victoria" magazine, December, 1995.
Recipes from Michael's Nook, Grasmere, in the Lake District of
England. Typos by Jeff Pruett.
Submitted By JEFF PRUETT   On   11-30-95

