Title: Cornucopia
Categories: Holiday, Breads
Yield: 1 servings
1 tb Water
3 cn Soft-breadstick dough
1 lg Egg, beaten with:
MMMMM------------------ASSORTED RAW VEGETABLES-----------------------
Cauliflower and broccli
Floretts.
Sugar snap peas, red and
Yellow cherry tomatoes,
Baby carrots, baby squash,
1.  Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.  Lightly spray a cookie sheet, at
least 17"x 14", with non-stick cooking spray.

2. Tear off a 30"x 18" sheet of heavy duty aluminum foil.  Fold in
1/2 to 18"x 15".  Roll diagonally to form a hollow cone, about 18"
long with a diameter of 5" at the widest end (Cornucopia opening).
Fasten end with clear tape.  Stuff cone with crumpled regular foil
until form is rigid. Bend tail of cone up then down at end.  Spray
outside of cone with non-stick cooking spray.  Place on cookie sheet.

3.  Open and unroll first  can of breadstick dough on work surface.
Seperate breadsticks.  Begin by wraping one breadstick around tip of
cone. Brush end of next breadstick with Glaze and press to attach to
end of first breadstick.  Continue spiral-wrapping cone, slightly
overlapping dough until there are 3 breadsticks left.

4.  Pinch one end of the 3 breadsticks together, then braid.  Brush
bread around opening of Cornucopia with Glaze.  Gently press on
braid.  Brush entire Cornucopia with Glaze.

5.  Bake 45 minutes in preheated oven or until bread is a rich brown.
(If parts start to darken too much, cover them with poeces of foil.)

6.  Remove from oven and let cool completely on cookie sheet on a wire
rack.  Carefully remove foil when cool. (If freezing, leave foil in
bread for support.  Remove when thawed.)

7.  Fill Cornucopia with the assorted raw vegetables directly on
table and let them spill out of opening

NOTE-- To prevent this center-piece from absorbing atmospheric
moisture, the baked Cornucopia cone can be sprayed with shellac or
clear enamel. If treated in this manner, the Cornucopia will be
inedible but can be preserved and re-used.

Published in Woman's Day; 11/95 issue.
Posted by Jim Anderson
Submitted By JIM ANDERSON   On   11-28-95

