Title: DOLMAS WITH LAMB
Categories: Main dish
Yield: 6 servings
1 ts Ground cinnamon
1/2 ts Ground allspice
1/2 ts Salt
1/4 ts Freshly ground black pepper
1    Jar (16 oz) grape leaves
-packed in brine
3/4 c  Freshly squeezed lemon juice
1 c  Chicken broth
1 lb Ground lamb
1 c  Olive oil
3 tb Olive oil
1 c  Finely chopped yellow onion
3    Finely chopped green onions
-(incl tops)
1/4 c  Minced fresh parsley
2 tb Minced fresh mint
1/2 c  Pine nuts
Several stems of fresh parsley
Additional freshly squeezed lemon juice
Grated or minced lemon zest for garnish

Wash and drain the rice.  Heat 3 Tbl olive oil in a skillet over
medium-high heat.  Add the yellow onion and saute until soft,
but not brown, about 5 minutes.  Add ground lamb and fry with
onion till done.  Transfer to mixing bowl and add the drained
rice, 1/2 cup of the remaining olive oil, green onions, parsley,
mint, pine nuts, cinnamon, allspice, salt, and pepper. Set
aside.  Rinse the grape leaves under running cold water to
remove as much brine as possible; pat dry and stack on a plate.
Place 1 leaf at a time, shiny side down, on a flat work
surface.  Cut off and discard the tough stem end. Spoon about 1
Tbl of the rice mixture in the center near the base of the
leaf.  Fold the stem end over to cover the filling; fold both
sides inward, lengthwise, and then tightly roll leaf toward
pointed tip end to form a compact packet.  Repeat with the
remaining leaves and filling.  Pour about 2 Tbl of the remaining
olive oil in the bottom of a large pot and strew with a layer of
parsley stems to prevent grape leaves from sticking. Arrange the
stuffed leaves, seam side down and almost touching on top of the
parsley, making as many layers as necessary.  Drizzle the
remaining 6 Tbl olive oil the lemon juice and 1/2 cup broth over
the leaves.

Top with a heat-resistant plate and weight with a heavy can to keep
leaves from unwinding during cooking.  Cover the pot bring to a
gentle boil reduce the heat to low and cook until rice is tender
about 1 hour.  During cooking add a little heated liquid as needed
to keep dolmas moist.  Remove from the heat and cool in the pot.
Sprinkle with lemon juice to taste garnish with lemon zest and
serve at room temperature.

Food & Wine RT [*]
Category 6,  Topic 10
Mon Mar 16, 1992
at 02:36 EST
Message 32
R.TAULE [REETZ]

MM by QBTOMM and Sylvia Steiger, GEnie THE.STEIGERS, CI$
71511,2253, GT Cookbook echo moderator, net/node 004/005

