Title: Garlic & Green Onion Bread
Categories: Breads, Vegetables
Yield: 1 loaf
MMMMM---------------------------DOUGH--------------------------------
1 tb Olive oil
1 tb Wheatgerm
6 c  All purpose white flour
2 c  Warm water
1 tb Yeast
1/2 tb Sugar
1/2 ts Salt
MMMMM---------------------------GLAZE--------------------------------
1 ts Basil
Cornmeal, for dusting
6 lg Garlic cloves, minced
2 ea Green onions, finely chopped
3 tb Olive oil
DOUGH:  In a large mixing bowl, combine the water, sugar & yeast.  Set
aside until the yeast starts to work.  Stir in the salt, oil &
wheatgerm followed by half the flour.  Set aside for 5 minutes.  Stir
in the rest of the flour & knead until you have a pliable dough.
Cover & let rise for about 1 1/2 hours, or until it has doubled.

GLAZE:  While the dough is rising, combine all the glaze ingredients
in a small bowl & set aside.

Cut the dough into 2 pieces, one piece approaximately twice the size
of the other.  Take the smaller piece & break off small balls.  Roll
these balls quickly in your hands & arrange in a rough circle on the
countertop. Briefly knead the larger piece of dough & brush with half
the glaze.  The larger piece of dough has to be flat when you're
finished & large enough so that it can cover the arrangement of
broken dough on your countertop. After brushing the dough, carefully
press down so that the garlic & onions won't fall off when you move
the dough.  Turn upside down & place the large piece of the dough on
top of the balls & gently press.  Carefully flip the whole lot the
other way up so that now the balls of broken dough forms the top of
the bread.  Place on a cookie sheet sprinkled with cornmeal.  Brush
the rest of the glaze on top of the bread, adding a little more oil
if necessary.  Cover & let rise for 1 to 1 1/2 hours.  Try & rig up
the cover in such a way that the cover does not touch the dough
otherwise you may lose some of your topping when you remove it or
pull the dough until it loses its shape.

Preheat the oven to 375F.  Place bread in the middle of the oven &
bake until it is evenly golden brown, about 30 minutes.  Cool on the
cookie sheet for a few minutes, then slide onto a wore rack.  Best
served while still warm.

Recipe by Mark Satterly
Submitted By MARK SATTERLY   On   12-04-95

