Title: GRILLED CHICKEN QUESADILLAS
Categories: Tex/mexican, Poultry
Yield: 24 servings
1    Problano Chili
8    6-inch Flour Tortillas
2 c  Grated cheddar cheese (mild
- or sharp)
1 c  Grated chihuahua cheese or
- Montery Jack cheese
1 c  Salsa or guacamole -optional
1    Whole chicken breast,
-boneless & skinless
2 tb Vegetable oil
1/4 ts Salt
Chili powder (4 pinches)
1/4 ts Cumin
1/4 ts Black pepper
1    Clove of Garlic, minced
Preparation time:  20 minutes Cooking time: 10 minutes

[Note: the serving size (24) is the number of "peices
you will get -- not necessarily how many people it will feed.]

1. Heat grill or broiler and cook chicken until done (approx. 5
minutes on each side).  Cool to reoom temperature and shred inot
1/4-inch peices. 2. Over gas burner or under broiler, place poblano
pepper and char skin until black all over, rotate as necessary.
Place pepper in a bag and close. After about 15 minutes remove pepper
from bag and remove charred skin, seeds, and stem.  Cut pepper into
1/2-inch strips. 3. Place 4 tortillas on table and top each with 3/4
cup of cheese, a pinch of chili powder, 1/2 cup of shredded chicken
and divided poblano strips. Top with remaining tortillas. 4. Heat an
8-inch or larger skillet -- dry, no oil -- over medium high heat.
Place quesadilla, one at a time in skillet and cook until golden
brown (about 1 minute) Turn over and cook another minute. 5. Let cool
slightly before cutting into 6 whedges.  Serve with salsa or
guacamole if desired.

From "Catering by Michael's," as part of the menu for a cocktail
reception for 100 guests held at a house on Lake Michigan and hosted
by the head of an insurance company.  Published in Chicago Tribune
Magaine 11/14/93.

[Another Note:  Now that I have typed this into the database, I see
that nowhere in this recipe does it tell you when to add the spices
~- other than the chili powder (which was not listed in the
"ingredients," originally -- I had to go back and insert that)  or
what to do with the vegetable oil.  I assume one might mix the spices
in the cooking oil and smear it over the chicken breast before
grilling or broiling. Suggestions, of course, will be appreciated.
Complaints will be ignored.]

Posted in the Cooking echo by Bud Cloyd (in a valiant, yet possibly
futile attempt to keep out of trouble with the moderator)

