Title: HOLIDAY SWEETS AND TREATS (L A Times)
Categories: Holiday, Newspaper, Snacks
Yield: 1 servings
Formatted by Manny Rothstein
Confections you make in your own kitchen can be a project worth
sharing with friends and neighbors during the holiday season. Pack
the candies in jars or boxes to give as hostess gifts or to serve as
open-house treats.

PARTY POPCORN MIX: Pour desired amount of hot popcorn in large
container. Sprinkle with butter-flavored salt. Add assorted nuts,
dried cut fruit, pumpkin seeds and chocolate pieces or arrange bowls
of nuts, dried fruit, pumpkin seeds and chocolate pieces around
popcorn and let guests fill their own bowls.

CHOCOLATE COVERED STRAWBERRIES: Grate or break up 1 lb. sweet,
semisweet or bitter chocolate into small pieces. Place in top of 1
1/2-qt. double boiler and set over hot water to barely touch bottom
of top pan. Stir until chocolate reaches 180F on thermometer. Stir
constantly after temperature reaches 100F. Remove from heat and cool
to about 88F to temper chocolate.
Heat water in bottom of double boiler to 90 degrees. Reheat
chocolate in top of double boiler over hot water. Dip strawberry,
holding by stem into melted chocolate. Lift out onto wire rack over
wax paper or tray. Drippings may be remelted and used again.
Store in refrigerator. Frozen pineapple sticks, pretzels, graham
crackers or other confections may also be dipped.

PARISIAN SWEETS: Put 1 lb. dried pitted dates or figs through food
chopper or processor, using fine blade. Place ground fruit on board
dusted heavily with powdered sugar and knead until well blended and
mixture clings together. Dust hands with powdered sugar and shape
candy into 3 1/2x1/2-inch fingers. Roll in 1 cup chopped flaked
coconut and press 1 cherry half into each roll.
Makes about 2 lb.

NUGGETS: Heat 6 cups puffed wheat or rice cereal in shallow baking
pan at 350F for 10 minutes. Pour into large greased bowl. Bring 3/4
cup light corn syrup to boil and quickly add 1 1/2 cups semisweet
chocolate pieces and 1 teaspoon vanilla. Stir until chocolate melts.
Pour over cereal and stir until all kernels are evenly coated. With
greased hands, shape into 1 inch balls, then roll in nuts. Place on
waxed paper until firm.
Makes about 3 dozen.

HARVEST CRUNCHIES: Melt 1/2 cup butter, 20 large marshmallows and 1
(6-oz.) package semisweet chocolate pieces in top of double boiler
over hot, but not boiling water. Remove from heat and stir in 1/2 cup
dried figs, 1 cup flaked coconut and 2 cups of any kind of cereal
flakes. Form into balls and place on waxed paper. Chill several hours
or up to several days Makes 30 to 35 confections.

RUM BALLS: Combine 4 cups vanilla wafer crumbs, 1 1/3 cups flaked
coconut and 1 cup finely chopped nuts in bowl. Stir in 1 (14-oz.) can
sweetened condensed milk and 1/2 cup rum, mixing well. Shape into
1-inch balls and roll in powdered sugar to coat. Cover and store in
refrigerator at least 24 hours or up to several weeks. Roll again in
powdered sugar just before serving.
Makes 6 dozen candies.

Copyright Los Angeles Times, November 9, 1995. By ROSE DOSTI
Submitted By MANNY ROTHSTEIN   On   11-25-95

