Title: Hot Water Pie Crust
Categories: Pie/tart
Yield: 8 servings
1 ts Salt
3 c  All purpose flour
1 c  Lard, very soft
1/2 c  Boiling water
Makes pastry for two 8 inch pies with top crusts or 2 9 or 10 inch
pies without top crusts.  Even though this is made with boiling water
it makes a tender, flaky crust.  At one stage, it looks like putty,
but don't worry. I make it in huge amounts, cut it into wedges, and
freeze it for nearly instant pies. This is an old, old, recipe.

Place the lard and salt in a large bowl and beat a bit with a
tablespoon until the lard is completely softened.  You can also do
this with an electric hand beater.  Pour boiling water over the lard
nd blend again.  Let this mixture cool to room temperature, but stir
often so water and lard won't separate.  Stir in the flour, and form
the mixture into a ball.  If you use your hands, do it quickly.
Chill for several hours or overnight, then let the cold dough sit out
at room temperature for about 30 min. before rolling out.

If you are preparing a shell to fill later or if your recipe requires
a prebaked crust, preheat the oven to 425 F.  Roll out a portion of
the dough to 1/8 inch thickness.  Transfer the crust to a pie pan and
pat it in snugly.  Form a decorative edging along the rim and trim
off the edges.  Prick the surface of the pastry all over with a fork.
Bake for 15 min. or until golden.  Check it often and if necessary
prick more to release air bubbles.  If the crust begins to slip down
the sides of the pan, pat it up with the back of a fork.

VARIATION:  For large amounts to freeze, use the proportions that
follow below.  Wrap each wedge in plastic wrap, bag it, and freeze.
Any unused portion can be refrozen.  To make 9 crusts, use 6 cups (3
pounds) lard; 2 tbsp. salt; 3 cups boiling water; 18 cups flour
(about 5 lbs).  For 12 crusts, use 8 cups (4 lbs.) lard; 8 tsp. salt;
1 quart boiling water; 24 cups all-purp. flour (about 7 lbs.

From: Cooking From Quilt Country
Shared by: Pat Stockett

