Title: JAMES BEARD'S MINCEMEAT
Categories: Holiday, Can/preserv, Pie/tart
Yield: 1 servings
1 pt Strawberry preserves
1 pt Raspberry preserves
1 tb Salt
1 tb Cinnamon
2 ts Nutmeg
1 1/2 ts Mace
1 ts Allpice
3/4 ts Ground cloves
Sherry or cognac
4 lb Beef rump or brisket
4 lb Beef tongue
1 lb Beef suet
2 lb Seedless raisins
2 lb Sultana raisins
2 lb Currants
3/4 lb Citron peel, diced and
1/2 lb Orange peel, finely chopped
1/2 lb Lemon peel, finely chopped
1 lb Sugar
"Begin by assembling a goodly supply of Cognac, apple brandy, sherry,
and if you can find it, boiled cider. If not, settle for more apple
brandy or applejack and more Cognac. You can also use up any odd
liquers or that bottle you were given last Crhistams and have kept
hidden on a shelf. All these things will help to make your mincemeat
better."

Boil the rump and tongue seperately in salted water until tender. Let
the rump cool until it can be handled, remove the excess fat, and
chop coarsely or put through the coarse blad of a meat grinder. Let
the tongue cool, remove the skin, and chop or grind coarsely. Chop
the beef suet very finely and combine it in a crock with the meats.
Add raisins, sultanas, currants, citron, peels and mix well.  Add
sugar and jams and salt. Mix spices together and mix into the mixture
in the crock. Mix ingredients well with the hands and then cover the
mixture with Sherry, Cognac, etc. -- enough to a make a rather loose
mixture. Cover tightly and let rest for 2 weeks. Uncover and taste,
and add more spirits if necessary. Let rest for another 2 weeks
before using.

At this point, if you wish to store the mincemeat in smaller
containers, transfer it to sterilized jars or crocks, add more
liquor, and seal or cover them tightly. The mincemeat will keep more
or less indefinitely in a cool place or in the refrigerator.

When using for pies,  Add 1 to 1 1/2 cups chopped fresh tart apple to
each 2 1/2 to 3 cups mincemeat, bake at 450 F. for 10 minutes, reduce
heat to 350 F. and continue baking until crust is well browned.

From:  Gourmet Magazine, November 1969, from the files of Linda
Shogren

