Title: Mixed Seafood Laksa
Categories: Soup/stew, Fish/seafoo, Asian
Yield: 8 servings
SOUP
2 md Onions; quartered; finely
-sliced
2 cl Garlic; finely chopped
2 ts Grated lemon rind; finely
-chopped
2 ts Laos powder**
8    Candlenuts; finely grated***
6    Dried chillies; seeds
-removed
2 ts Dried shrimp paste (blacan)
2 ts Ground turmeric
4 ts Ground coriander
Prawn stock with seafood
-see above
8 c  Coconut milk
2 ts Sugar
2 1/2 ts Salt; or to taste
PRAWN STOCK AND SEAFOOD
1 lb Raw prawns
1 lb Fish fillets
1/4 ts Pepper
1 ts Salt
4 oz Crab meat OR
2 crabs; cooked and cut into
-pieces
5 tb Oil
8 c  ;water
2 ts Salt
1 lb Rice vermicelli*
1 lb Fresh bean sprouts
1 lg Cucumber;peeled and coarsely
-grated
8    Spring onions (scallions)
1/2 c  Fresh mint leaves; firmly
-packed
*  This is also known as rice sticks and is available in Chinese
groceries. ** A very delicate spice sold in powder form.  Also known
as kha in Thai cooking.  Available in Asian groceries.
***A hard nut with lots of oil used to flavor curries.  Also known
as kemiri (Indonesian) or buah keras (Malay). Available in Asian
groceries.

Shell and devein prawns, reserving shells and heads.  Drain these
thoroughly.  Remove any bones and skin from fish fillets and using a
chopper, chop very finely.  Mix in the salt and pepper and shape
into small balls, or into a sausage-shaped roll and divide into
finger-width slices.  Pick over crab meat and discard any bony
tissue, or chop the whole crabs into pieces after removing top shell
and fibrous tissue.

Heat 2 tablespoons oil in a saucepan and when very hot throw in the
prawn heads and shells and fry until they turn bright red.  Add 8
cups water and 2 teaspoons salt, cover and simmer 20-30 minutes,
then strain. Discard shells and heads.  Return the stock to the
fire, drop in the fish balls or slices and the prawns, cut into
pieces if large.  Return to the boil, then lower heat and simmer
for 3-4 minutes.  Set aside and keep warm.

Scald the rice vermicelli by pouring boiling water over it, then
allow it to drain in a colander.  Or soak it in warm water for 5-10
minutes, drain well.  Scald the bean sprouts by pouring boiling
water over.  Rinse in cold water, washing off any loose skins.
Pinch off straggly brown "tails."  Slice spring onions finely,
roughly chop mint leaves.  Set aside each ingredient separately]
until serving time.

TO MAKE THE SOUP:  Heat remaining 3 tablespoons oil and fry the
onions, garlic, and lemon rind until onions are golden.  Stir in
the laos powder, candlenuts, chillies, blacan, turmeric and
coriander.  Add the prawn stock and when the soup comes to the boil
add the coconut milk, sugar, and salt. Reduce heat and simmer,
uncovered, for 10-15 minutes, stirring to prevent coconut milk
curdling.

In each bowl, arrange a ladle of the vermicelli, enough to
two-thirds fill the bowl.  Add a handful of bean sprouts, a
tablespoon each of cucumber, and sliced spring onions.  Add also a
large pinch of mint.  Pour the boiling soup over and serve
immediately.  A hot sambal can be served along with this for
individuals to add to their portion if desired.  Serves 8-10.
Source:  The Complete Asian Cookbook.

