Title: Mole De Guajolote
Categories: Tex/mexican, Poultry, Chocolate, Guestchefs
Yield: 16 servings
4 tb Lard
3 tb Sesame seeds
1/3 c  Almonds
1/3 c  Peanuts
1/4 c  Raisins
1    Tortilla
1/4 ts Ground cloves
8 lb Turkey, in serving pieces
1    Onion
1    Stalk celery
Salt
2    Chipotle chiles
6    Mulato chiles
6    Ancho chiles
4    Pasilla chiles
1/4 t ground cinnamon 4 peppercorns 1 t or more seeds reserved from
chiles 1 large onion, roughly chopped 3 cloves garlic, chopped 1 qt
turkey stock 1 oz unsweetened chocolate 3 medium tomatoes, peeled

Here's the one I used, which is adapted from Richard Condon and Wendy
Bennett, The Mexican Stove: What to Put on It and in It, Doubleday
1973. It's rather like Mr. Tabnik's two-chile mole, except that it
doesn't use anise and has more kinds of chiles.

Quote (edited) begins here:

The oldest surviving evolved recipe of cooked food of any system of
cooking of any of the ancient civilizations of the world.

As the Mayas ate it 9000 years ago, as the Emperor Moctezuma served
it to Hern n Cort‚s:

Put the pieces of turkey into a large pot with onion, celery, and
salt. Add water to cover and boil until tender [M's note: simmer] -
about 2 1/2 hr. Meanwhile - clean the chiles, reserving some of the
seeds for desired piquancy. Toast sesame seeds in the oven until
light brown and reserve. Boil the chipotles until tender and puree in
blender with the tomatoes. Tear the other chiles (veined and seeded)
into pieces and fry lightly in 2 T lard. Remove and reserve. In the
used lard fry the almonds, peanuts, raisins, tortilla (torn into
pieces), cloves, cinnamon, peppercorns. Grind in blender: chile
seeds, fried ingredients, onion, garlic. You will have to do this in
batches. To facilitate the grinding, add 1/2 c turkey stock to each
batch. Dissolve this mixture and the chocolate in 1 pt stock. Fry the
tomato-and-chipotle puree in 2 T lard for 10 min, stirring
occasionally. Add 1 c stock and simmer 10 min more. Add this to the
mole, along with any remaining stock, and simmer, stirring
occasionally, 1 hr. Serve over the turkey, which has been skinned and
boned, with rice and beans.

