Title: More About Chocolate
Categories: Chocolate, Information, Breadmaker
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM---------------------INFO ON CHOCOLATE--------------------------
Mmmmm Good!
Chocolate starts as a bean from the tropical  cacao tree. When
roasted and ground, the beans become chocolate liquor (a paste); when
cooled, this becomes baking chocolate. Chocolate liquor is also
processed into cocoa butter and cocoa powder.

Bittersweet Chocolate: A blend of chocolate liquor, cocoa butter and
just enough sugar to soften the bitterness.

Semisweet Chocolate: Same blend as bittersweet - but extra sugar
gives it a slightly sweeter taste.

Milk Chocolate: Made with more sugar than semisweet - plus milk or
cream and vanilla flavoring.

White Chocolate: A blend of cocoa butter, milk, sugar and flavoring -
without any chocolate liquor.

Equivalents: 3 Tablespoons cocoa powder plus 1 tablespoon solid
vegetable shortening = 1 square baking (unsweetened) chocolate.

MELTING
Top Of Stove: Place chocolate squares in heavy saucepan over lowest
heat or in top of double boiler over simmering water. With wooden
spoon or spatula, stir constantly, until chocolate is melted.
Microwave: Place squares in microwave-safe bowl (do Not cover);
microwave on high power for 30 seconds. Remove and stir; if only
partially melted, repeat microwaving.

To Make Chocolate Leaves:
Brush a nontoxic real leaf with coating of melted chocolate.
Refrigerate. After chocolate hardens, remove leaf. Refrigerate until
ready to use.

To Make Chocolate Cups:

Evenly coat inside of foil muffin liner with melted chocolate. (A
small brush works perfectly with this). Refrigerate. After chocolate
hardens, remove liner. Refrigerate until needed.

To Make Chocolate Curls:

Pour melted chocolate into foil lined pan. Refrigerate until hard. Use
cheese slicer to form curls. Refigerate until needed.

To Make Chocolate Squiggles:

Place melted chocolate in a zipper-lock plastic bag; cut tip off one
corner of bag with scissors. Squeeze designs on wax paper, using even
strokes; refrigerate. Let shapes harden before using to decorate
cakes, cookies or candy.

Typed & Posted by Anne Marie Chiappetta December - 1995.
Submitted By ANNE MARIE CHIAPPETTA   On   12-09-95

