Title: NOISETTES OF LAMB WITH TRUFFLE AND LYONNAISE POTATOES
Categories: Meats, Potatoes
Yield: 1 servings
20 g  Onions;finely sliced rings
1 x  Egg yolk
Oil
15 g  Butter; unsalted
1 tb Veal glaze
Salt
Pepper
3    Noisettes; each 3 cm
- (1 3/8 in) thick, taken
- from a filleted saddle
- of lamb
3    Sprigs of parsley
20 g  Truffle; 3/4 oz
100 g  New Potatoes; 3 1/2 oz
Note - This recipe, which takes no time at all to cook, can be
adapted for more than one person by an appropriate increase of all
the ingredients except the egg yolk, which will glaze enough
noisettes for six. Take care, too, to use frying pans that are large
enough to allow plenty of room for tossing and turning the noisettes
and the Lyonnaise potatoes.

You could substitute mushroom for truffle but, as Fredy Girardet
would say, it won't be the same.

Preparation

Chop the parsley very finely; you will need 2 tablespoons full pro
serving.

Chop the truffle finely. Set a quarter of it aside for the sauce and
mix the rest with the parsley.

Using a mandoline, slice the potatoes 2mm (1/16 in) thick. Separate
the onion slices into rings.

Put the egg yolk into a little bowl. It is to be used as if for pastry
glaze, so mix it with 1 teaspoon of water.

Finishing

Season the noisettes. Brush each one with the egg yolk. then roll
them in the parsley-and-truffle mixture, pressing well to make it
stick.

Heat a little oil in a non-stick frying pan. Add the noisettes. Let
them cook for 3 minutes, turning them once or twice, Add the butter
and take the pan off the heat for 2 minutes to let it 'draw', then
put the noisettes on to a heated plate. Set the pan and its juices
aside.

Cook the Lyonnaise potatoes at the same time as you cook the meat.
Cook them in a large frying pan, in very hot oil, for 5 minutes in
all, turning them often. Add the onion rings half-way through cooking.

To make the sauce, add the rest of the truffle and a scant
tablespoonful of the veal glaze to the juices in the pan in which you
cooked the meat. Let the mixture bubble up once. Season with salt and
pepper.

Serving

Arrange the potatoes in the centre of a heated plate. Put the
noisettes on top and pour the sauce all round.

From: Fredy Girardet, Cuisine spontanee, Papermac 1986, ISBN
0-333-40957-4

