Title: PAELLA PARA ELLA
Categories: Main dish, Spanish
Yield: 12 servings
12    Raw oysters
1/2 lb Fillet of red snapper
-- cubed
12 sm Clams in shells
1/2 lb Raw lobster meat; cubed
12    Stone crab claws
4 oz Canned squids (optional)
1 1/2 c  Chicken broth; hot
2 c  Long grain white rice
1/2 c  Dry sherry
Additional dry sherry
-- for sprinkling
9 oz Frozen artichoke hearts
12    Canned asparagus spears
2    Whole pimientos
1/2 c  Cooked small peas
Parsley bouquets for garnish
1/2 c  Olive oil
1    (2-lb) fryer, cut in 8 pcs.
2    Thick pork chops; cubed
2    Thick lamb chops; cubed
1 md Onion; finely chopped
1/2 md Green pepper; finely chopped
2    Garlic cloves; minced
1    Bay leaf
1 lg Ripe tomato; peeled,
-- quartered, seeded,
-- and finely chopped
1 pn Toasted saffron
2 c  Chicken broth; hot
1 tb Salt
1/2 ts Hot sauce
18 md Raw shrimp
-- cleaned and deveined
18    Tender raw bay scallops
Pour oil into a large skillet.  Heat and brown chicken pieces; remove
to casserole, which should measure 14 inches in diameter.  Brown
cubed pork and lamb chops in skillet and remove to casserole.  To the
drippings, add the onion and the green pepper.  Saute until onion is
transparent.  Add the garlic, bay leaf, and finely chopped tomato.
Stir to mix and cook 5 minutes.  Combine the toasted saffron, 2 cups
of hot broth, salt, and hot sauce.  Stir into skillet; bring to a
boil, then pour over meat and chicken in casserole.  Again bring to a
boil, lower heat, cover, and cook until the meat is tender (30
minutes).  Now, add shrimp, scallops, oysters, cubed red snapper,
scrubbed clams, lobster meat, stone crab claws, and squids (remove
part of the ink of the squids and chop squids coarsely). Cook
approximately 15 minutes at moderate heat, or until the shellfish
turn pink. Remove stone crab claws for later use.  Half the shell of
the clams may be removed if desired.  There should be enough liquid
in casserole to measure about 3-1/2 cups; add more broth if
necessary. Stir in the 2 cups of rice and mix well to distribute
evenly in csserole. When it starts to boil, add the 1/2 cup wine.
Cover the casserole and place in preheated 325 degree F oven for 20
minutes. Meanwhile cook artichokes according to direction on package.
Drain and use only 6 to 8 perfect ones. Five minutes before removing
casserole from oven, uncover and place artichokes around edge of
casserole. Place the asparagus spears in between artichokes cartwheel
fashion.  Place the stone crab claws in decorative arrangement around
the casserole.  Cut 1 pimiento in strips and place over the rice.
Fill the remaining pimiento with peas and place in center of
casserole, pressing down to avoid toppling over. Add parsley bouquets
here and there for color.  Sprinkle all with dry sherry and return to
oven uncovered for 5 minutes longer. Remove from oven and let stand
for at least 15 minutes before serving. NOTE: In many parts of Spain,
a lemon wedge to squeeze over the paella is served with each portion.

