Title: PINEAPPLE UPSIDE-DOWN CAKE (LIGHT)
Categories: Desserts, Cake/cookie
Yield: 9 servings
3/4 c  Sugar
1 1/2 ts Baking powder
1/4 c  Thawed frozen egg substitute
- equivalent to 1 egg
1/2 ts Vanilla
1/4 ts Coconut extract
1 tb Butter, softened
1/2 c  Light brown sugar, packed
3 cn Pineapple slices (8oz cans)
- in unsweetened juice
9    Maraschino cherries
1 c  Cake flour
Brush bottom and sides of 9-inch square baking pan with butter.
Sprinkle brown sugar over bottom of pan.
Drain pineapple slices reserving 1/2 cup juice.  Arrange 9
pineapple slices on brown sugar in pan.  Place 1 maraschino cherry in
center of each pineapple slice.  Puree 2 pineapple slices.  Reserve
remaining pineapple slice for another use.
Stir together cake flour, sugar and baking powder in bowl.  In
another container, combine 1/4 cup pureed pineapple, 1/2 cup
pineapple juice, egg substitute, vanilla and coconut extract. Quickly
combine liquid ingredients with dry ingredients, stirring just until
blended.
Pour batter over pineapple in pan, spreading evenly.  Bake at 350
degrees 20 to 25 minutes or until cake tests done in center and is
golden brown.  Cool about 5 minutes.
Loosen cake around edges of pan.  Place inverted serving platter
over cake and turn both upside down.  Shake gently, then remove pan.
Slice into squares and serve warm.  Makes 9 servings.

Each serving contains about: 221 calories; 103 mg sodium; 3 mg
cholesterol; 2 grams fat; 51 grams carbohydrates; 2 grams protein;
0.3 gram fiber.

When preparing the cake, stir the liquid and dry ingredients
together just until blended --- overmixing causes toughness.  Also
watch the baking closely.  Bake only until the center of the cake
tests done -- overbaking causes dryness and toughness.
After baking, let the cake stand a few minutes, then loosen the
edges with a knife.  Invert the cake into a serving platter to reveal
the fruit-and-sugar glaze.  This cake is best when eaten warm.  You
may want to serve it with nonfat frozen yogurt or a dollop of low-fat
whipped topping.

Printed in the June 18, 1992, issue of the Los Angeles Times.

