Title: Red Rice w/Diced Bananas and Curried Cauliflower
Categories: Vegetables, Pasta/rice
Yield: 4 servings
1 md Bay leaf
1 ts Garam masala
2    Ripe red bananas
Or firm yellow bananas
Peeled, chopped in sm pcs
Salt and pepper to taste
2 c  Red rice
Or basmati rice
5 c  Chicken stock
1 tb Vegetable oil
1 lg Yellow onion(s), diced
1    Garlic clove(s), minced
MMMMM--------------------CURRIED CAULIFLOWER-------------------------
1    Head cauliflower
Broken into 1" florets
1 lg Tomato, peeled
Seeded and diced
1/2 c  Chicken stock
1/4 ts Black pepper
Salt to taste
1 tb Vegetable oil
1 lg Yellow onion(s), diced
1    Garlic clove(s), minced
1 md Bay leaf
2    Cardamon pods
Hulled and crushed
1 tb Curry powder
The Rice:

Place the rice in a fine sieve and rinse under cold running water for
5 min. Drain.

Heat the chicken stock to a low boil, cover, and set aside. Heat the
oil over high heat in a large, heavy pot. Add the onion, garlic, and
bay leaf, and saute for 5 min or until the onion is translucent. Add
the rice and saute for 1 min. Add the garam masala, stirring well,
and saute for 1 min. Add the hot chicken stock, lower the heat,
cover, and simmer for 15-20 min or until the rice has absorbed all of
the liquid. Remove the pan from the heat and discard the bay leaf.
Fold in the chopped bananas. Season with salt and pepper and serve.

Curried Cauliflower:

Heat the oil in a large, heavy saucepan over medium-high heat. Add the
onion and bay leaf and saute for 7 min or until the onion becomes
golden brown. Add the garlic, cardamon, and curry powder, stir well,
and saute for 2 min. Lower the heat and add the cauliflower,
sauteeing gently for 4-5 min, until the stems of the cauliflower take
on a glassy appearance. Add the tomato and saute for 2 min. Add the
chicken stock, salt and pepper, and cook for 5 min more. Remove the
pan from the heat, adjust the seasoning and serve.

Grains, Rice, and Beans
by Kevin Graham
ISBN 1-885183-08-9
pg 130-132
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   11-25-95

