Title: SAUT‚ED PRAWNS WITH FRIED LEEKS IN PRAWN-CARROT SAUCE
Categories: Fish/seafoo, Salsa/sauce
Yield: 4 servings
1/4 c  Olive oil
3 c  Peanut oil
1    Leek; washed and finely
- julienned
16 lg Prawns (heads on); peeled,
- deveined (reserve the
- heads and shells for the
- Prawn-Carrot Sauce)
Salt and pepper
MMMMM---------------------PRAWN-CARROT SAUCE--------------------------
1 c  White wine
1 pt Heavy cream
3 tb Butter; cut in small pieces
Salt and pepper (to taste)
3 tb Olive oil
2 c  -shells & heads of prawns
1    Onion; diced
4    Carrots; sliced
1    Leek; washed and diced
Season the prawns with the salt and pepper.  Refrigerate the prawns
for 1 hour.

In a large skillet place the olive oil and heat it on medium high
until it is hot.  Add the chilled prawns and saut‚ them for 2 minutes
on each side, or until they are done.  Set them aside and keep them
warm.

In a large saucepan place the peanut oil and heat it on medium until
it is hot (350øF).  Add the leeks and fry them for 1 minute, or until
they are golden brown.  Remove them with a slotted spoon and place
them on paper towels to drain.  Lightly season them with the salt.

In each of 4 medium-sized plates with high rims place 1/2 cup of the
Prawn-Carrot Sauce.  Place 4 prawns on top of the sauce, in a circular
pattern.  Place the fried leeks on top.

Prawn-Carrot Sauce:  In a medium saucepan place the oil and heat it on
medium high until it is hot.  Add the shells and the heads of the
prawns, and saut‚ them for 4 minutes.  Remove them and set them aside.

Add the onions, carrots, and leeks.  Saut‚ them for 5 minutes.
Return the prawn shells and heads to the pan.  Saut‚ the ingredients.
Add the white wine.  Cook the ingedients for 4 to 6 minutes, or until
the liquid is reduced to 1/4.  Add the heavy cream.  Cook the
ingredients on low heat for 12 to 15 minutes, or until the liquid is
reduced to 1/2.

Remove the prawn shells and heads with a slotted spoon and discard
them. Place the sauce in a food processor and blend it.  Strain the
sauce and return it to the pan.  While whisking constantly, add the
pieces of butter one at a time.  Season the sauce with the salt and
the pepper.

