Title: Sauteed Duck Breast w/Wheat Berries and Apricots
Categories: Poultry, Main dish
Yield: 4 servings
1 tb Sugar
1 ts Butter
1    Fenugreek seeds
Peeled and minced
6    Apricots, peeled
Seeded, finely chopped *
1/2 c  White wine
1/2 c  Whole, peeled
Wheat berries
1    Egg white
4    Duck breasts (4-6 oz ea)
Skinned and cut
Into 1/4" strips
1 tb Canola oil
* If apricots are unavailable, substitute 3 peaches or Bartlett pears.

Place the wheat berries in a fine sieve and rinse under cold running
water for 1 min. Place in a mixing bowl, cover with water, and soak
for 8 hours or overnight. Drain.

Place the drained wheat berries and 1 3/4 cups water in a heavy,
medium saucepan and bring to a rolling boil. Reduce heat to a simmer,
cover, and cook for about 1 hour or until the grain are tender but
retain their crunch. Remove the pan from the heat and let sit,
covered, for 10 min. Spread out the berries on a baking sheet to cool
quickly, then set aside.

Place the egg white in a mixing bowl and toss the duck strips in it.
Roll each duck strip in the wheat berries, pressing lightly on each
one to ensure that the berries adhere. This process is best done by
rolling each strip between your hands. Repeat until all of the duck
strips are covered. Set aside on the baking sheet.

Heat the oil in a heavy skillet over medium heat. Add the duck strips
and gently saute for 30 seconds on each side. Drain on kitchen towels
and keep warm. Wipe the pan clean.

Add the sugar to the pan and cook over medium-high heat until a
caramel forms and the sugar becomes the color of strong tea, about 10
min. Add the butter and garlic, stirring to make a candy. Add the
chopped apricots and stir. Add the white wine, and stirring
constantly, bring to a boil and reduce by 50%.

Divide the duck strips among 4 plates. If desired, strain the sauce
through a fine sieve. Serve the sauce alongside the duck.

Grains, Rice, and Beans
by Kevin Graham
ISBN 1-885183-08-9
pg 101
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   11-25-95

