Title: SOUR CREAM AND WILD RICE SOUP
Categories: Soup/stew, Low cal/fat
Yield: 8 servings
MMMMM--------------------POACHING INGREDIENTS-------------------------
1    Celery Rib; cut in half
1    Bay Leaf
10    Black Peppercorns; whole
Salt to taste
2    Chicken Breasts; excess fat
-and skin removed
1 qt Water
1    Onion; quartered
1    Carrot; cut in large chunks
MMMMM----------------------SOUP INGREDIENTS---------------------------
Black Pepper; freshly ground
1 c  Evaporated Skim Milk
1 c  Sour Cream Substitute
1 tb Corn Starch
2 c  Wild Rice; Cooked
-according to package dir
-without fat or salt
3 tb Thyme; fresh chopped
1 ts Olive Oil
1 lg Red Onion; thinly sliced
2 md Celery Ribs; thinly sliced
3 lg Carrots; peeled and shredded
4    Garlic Cloves; chopped
2 c  Mushrooms; sliced
1/4 c  Flour
Salt
In a heavy saucepan, combine the chicken and water, bring to a boil,
reduce the heat to low and carefully skim off any scum. Add onion,
carrot, celery, bay leaf, peppercorns, and salt. Cover and simmer the
chicken for 45 minutes to one hour. Remove the chicken from the broth
and set aside to cool. Strain the remaining broth, discarding the
solids, and place in the refrigerator to chill, or use fat separator
to remove all fat from broth. When the chicken is cool enough to
handle, remove the meat from the bone and tear or shred into bite
sized pieces. Cover and refrigerate until needed.
Meanwhile, in a large saucepan, heat the olive oil until sizzling,
add the onions, celery, carrots and garlic and cook over medium high
heat for about 5 minutes. Lower the heat to medium, add the mushrooms
and cook for 5 minutes more. Add the flour, salt and pepper and stir
to combine, cooking for 2 minutes. Add the chicken stock (remove the
fat that has accumulated at the top of the stock) and the evaporated
skim milk. In a small bowl, whisk together the sour cream and the
cornstarch. Add to the soup, stirring until thickened and heated
through. Add the cooked rice, shredded chicken and thyme, stirring
until thick and bubbly. Serve at once.

