Title: Trussed Goose
Categories: Game, Holiday, Poultry
Yield: 1 servings
WILD GEESE
White-Fronted Goose. Though occasionally met with on the Atlantic
Coast and not uncommon in the Mississippi Valley, the white-fronted
goose is essentially a bird of the West, and is particularly abundant
in the Pacific Coast States. This is one of the geese which used to
visit the wheat fields of California in such numbers as to threaten
the crop, and which men were hired to kill and frighten away. The
flocks of former days are now represented by comparatively small
numbers, so the truly toothsome flesh of the bird is not enjoyed by
as many gourmets today as in the past.
The nests of these geese are built on the grassy borders of ponds
where the young can be quickly led into the seemingly protecting
water. They feed on heath berries, hence their delicious flavor.
Geese are strong of wing and of adventurous spirit, and to most of
the tribe a migration of a thousand miles or so is a trifling matter.
Blue Goose. Also called Emperor Goose, this bird has a white head and
neck, is much darker than the White-Front, and has pale bluish wings.
Like its relatives, this species is a strict vegetarian and is
particularly fond of the tender shoots of grass and of grain. It is a
fine morsel and greatly esteemed by the gourmet.
When young and plump, a wild goose may be prepared in the fresh state.
If old it should be allowed to hang for at least four days, when it
may be roasted or still better, cooked a l'estouffade (that is,
cooked like a smothered fowl).
Delicious entrees may be made when the bird is roasted and then
cooled; the fillets are removed and may be prepared with different
sauces, such as orange, anchovy, caper, bigarrade, currant jelly,
etc. Wild, goose seems to be predestined for salmi, as in fact are
most of the game birds, except, of course, wild turkey. Most cooking
methods applied to the domestic goose may also be used for the wild
bird. Shared by: Paul MacGregor, Nov/95.

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   12-12-95

