Title: Chicken Kotletki with Sour Cream Sauce
Categories: Poultry, Russian, Sauces
Yield: 8 servings
Cayenne pepper, nutmeg and
-black pepper
2 tb Butter
1 tb Oil
Sauce
2 tb Butter
1/4 c  Finely chopped green onions
2/3 c  Whipping cream
2 ts White vinegar
2/3 c  Sour cream
1/4 ts Salt
Filling
3/4 lb Fresh mushrooms, finely
-chopped
1/4 ts Salt
Freshly ground pepper
Patties
2 lb Skinless, boneless chicken
-breasts, ground
2 c  Fresh bread crumbs
1/2 c  Light cream
1    Egg, lightly beaten
1 1/2 ts Salt
Filling:  Melt butter in skillet and over med.high heat, saute mushrooms
with salt and a pinch of pepper until mushrooms are browned and liquid has
evaporated.  Remove one tbsp. mushrooms to add to the sauce and reserve the
rest for filling the 'kotletki' Patties: In a large bowl, mix together 1
cup of the breadcrumbs and the cream, combine with the chicken, egg, salt
and a pinch each of the cayenne, nutmeg and pepper. Spread remaining crumbs
in a shallow pan.
Divide chicken mixture into 8 portions.  With wet hands, form each portion
into an oblong patty.  Flatten slightly amd in center, place 1/8 of the
mushroom filling.  Fold over and pat chicken around filling. Roll each
patty gently in bread crumbs and place on waxed paperlined tray. Repeat
with remaining chicken and filling to make 8 patties. Cover and chill the
patties.  Recipe can be prepared ahead up to this point. In 1 large or 2
med skillets, heat together butter and oil. Arrange patties in a single
layer and saute over medium heat for about 5 minutes on each side, adding
more butter if necessary, until patties are golden brown. Sauce: Meanwhile
in a small saucepan, melt butter and cook onions without browning for 2 - 3
minutes.  Add cream, increase heat to high and cook, stirring constantly,
until cream thickens slightly.  Reduce heat to low, add vinegar, sour cream
and salt.  Heat through, but do not boil. Add reseved mushroom filling.
Taste and adjust seasoning. Serve each kotletki napped with a spoonful of
sauce, and garnished with watercress Accompanyed by Kasha..

