Title: Christopsomo Tis Kirias Zinis
Categories: Greek, Breads
Yield: 3 servings
2 ts Freshly ground cloves
3    Oranges
6    Tangerines
2 1/2 c  Dried currants
1 c  Golden raisins
1 c  Olive oil, mild
Karen Mintzias
4 1/2 c  Semolina flour
2 1/4 c  Sugar
3 tb Freshly ground cinnamon
1 tb Freshly ground anise
1 tb Freshly ground coriander
-------------------------------STARTER DOUGH-------------------------------
- temperature
4 c  All-purpose flour;
-plus extra for kneading
4 pk Active dry yeast
1/2 ts Sugar
1/2 c  -Hot water, just above body
Make the flavoring addition first.  Combine the semolina flour, sugar,
cinnamon, anise, coriander, and cloves in a bowl and add the finely grated
zests of the oranges and tangerines.  Squeeze some of the oranges and
tangerines.  Squeeze some of the oranges and tangerines to obtain 1 1/4
cups juice.  Use half this juice to soak the currants and raisins for a
minimum of 1 hour, preferably overnight.  Put the remaining juice in a pan
with the olive oil.  Heat until almost boiling.  Pour this into a bowl with
the semolina and spice mixture and stir.  Cover and leave overnight until
needed.

Next day, combine the dried yeast with the sugar and hot water in a cup.
Put the flour in a bowl, making a well in the center.  Pour in the yeast
mixture.  Squeeze 2/3 cup more orange and tangerine juice, warm it, nad
add.  Work to a smooth dough, adding more water and warm juice if
necessary.  Put the dough into an oiled bowl, cover with a cloth, and leave
to rise in a warm place until almost doubled in size - about an hour.

Punch down the dough in a bowl.  Combine the drained currants and raisins
with the semolina and spice mixture and, working with your hands, combine
with the dough.  Turn the dough onto a floured surface and knead for 10
minutes, adding more flour if the dough is sticky.

Divide the dough into three equal pieces.  Oil 3 loaf pans, each 1-1/2
quart capacity.  Shape each piece to fit the length of the pan and fit them
in, so the corners are well filled.  Cover with a cloth and leave to rise
in a warm place until almost double in size - another hour.

Bake in an oven preheated to 350 F for 1 hour and 10 minutes or more; the
loaves should be rich brown color and make a hollow sound when the unmolded
bread is thumped on the bottom.  Leave on a rack to cool.  The bread will
keep for at least 3 weeks.

Source: Recipes from a Greek Island - by Susie Jacobs ISBN:0-671-74531-X

Typed for you by Karen Mintzias

