Title: Cuscusu Di Pistachi
Categories: Desserts, Italian
Yield: 10 servings
----------------------------FOR SEALING THE PAN----------------------------
1/2 c  Water
1 c  All-purpose flour
----------------------------------COUSCOUS----------------------------------
3 c  Water
1 c  Couscous, not instant
--------------------------FLAVORING & 2ND STEAMING--------------------------
1 ts Almond extract
1 ts Cinnamon
1/4 c  Almond oil
-=OR=- Mild vegetable oil
1 tb Water
1/2 ts Salt
1 1/2 c  Shelled green pistachios
- unsalted and very green
---------------------------------FINISHING---------------------------------
- finely grated
Candied cherries
-=OR=- Other Candied Fruit
- (to garnish)
1/2 c  Sugar
2 tb Water
1/4 c  Confectioners' sugar
1 oz Semisweet chocolate
Couscous is normally a savory dish found in Morocco. This unusual dessert
version is the specialty of a small convent in Sicily.

FIRST PREPARE THE PAN for steaming the couscous: For the sealing dough, mix
the flour and water together in a bowl and scrape onto a floured work
surface. Knead briefly to form a rough, sticky dough, adding a tablespoon
or 2 of flour if necessary. Roll into a rope as long as the circumference
of the bottom pan and apply the dough to the rim of the pan. Add water to
the pan so that the water is below the bottom of the couscousiere or
colander and press the couscousiere into place. Bring the water to a boil
on high heat, until steam is escaping freely through the perforations, then
lower to a simmer, so that the steam escapes very gently. While the water
is coming to a boil, prepare the couscous to be cooked: Place the grain in
a bowl and add the water. Swish the water through the grain with the
fingers of one hand splayed apart, "raking" through it. Tilt the bowl and
drain away excess water. Set aside for 5 minutes. Line the couscousiere
with a dampened napkin or cheesecloth and add the grain. Cover and steam 15
minutes. While the grain is cooking, prepare the flavoring. Half fill a
saucepan with water and add the pistachios. Bring to a boil; drain in a
strainer. Pour the pistachios onto a towel, fold the towel over them and
rub to loosen skins. Separate pistachios from skins, going over them
carefully. Combine the freshly blanched pistachios, extract and cinnamon in
a food processor bowl and process for 2-3 minutes, until very finely ground
and starting to become pasty. Add the oil, 1 tablespoon at a time, and
continue processing mixture to a smooth paste, stopping the machine and
scraping the inside of the bowl 3-or-4 times. Reserve pistachio paste.
After the couscous has steamed 15 minutes, remove it from the couscousiere
in the cheesecloth and put it in a large, non-reactive roasting pan. Spread
it out with a fork and let cool. Combine the salt and water and work it
into the cooled couscous, raking it through with 1 hand. Add the pistachio
paste in 3-or-4 additions, working it in by rubbing it and the couscous
together with the fingertips. Return the water in the bottom pan to a
simmer, and line the couscousiere again with the dampened cheesecloth. Add
the seasoned couscous to the couscousiere, cover and steam 15 minutes.
Remove the couscous to the roasting pan, spread out with a fork, without
compressing the mixture, and leave uncovered until cool. To finish the
couscous, bring the sugar and water to a boil, stirring to dissolve all
sugar granules, and cool the syrup. Work the cooled couscous between the
palms of the hands again to separate the grains and toss in the syrup in
5-or-6 additions, fluffing the couscous with a fork. Allow the couscous to
dry uncovered, several hours, in a cool place, fluffing it with a fork
occasionally, until all the grains are separate. For advance preparation,
cover tightly with plastic wrap and refrigerate up to several days. To
serve, fluff up with a fork so the grains separate well and mound the
couscous on a platter. Sprinkle the couscous evenly with the grated
chocolate, then the confectioners' sugar. Decorate with no more than 5-or-6
pieces of the candied fruit.

NICK MALGIERI - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK

