Title: Danish Pastry - Dansk Wienerbrod
Categories: Ethnic, Desserts
Yield: 6 servings
1 c  Milk
1    Egg
1 1/2 c  Butter
4 c  Flour
1 ts Salt
1/4 c  Sugar
2 1/4 oz Yeast cakes
Sift flour and mix with sugar and salt. Mix yeast with a little cold milk.
Add this, the rest of the milk and the beaten egg to flour and sugar. Beat
well until smooth with a wooden spoon.

Roll out the dough on baking board to 1 finger thickness. Spread small
pieces of butter on 2/3. of the dough. The butter must have same
consistency as the dough; if it is too soft it melts into the dough. Fold
together into three layers like folding a napkin, first the part without
butter. Roll out and fold again. Repeat three or four times.

Leave in cold place 1/2 hour. This is the dough with which many different
kinds of Danish pastry is made. When pastry is shaped, place on baking
sheet and leave in cold place to rise for 15-20 min., then brush with egg
white and bake in a fast oven until golden brown.

Cocks' Combs (Hanekamme). Roll out dough to finger thickness and spread
with a paste made of equal parts of butter and sugar, then cut into square
pieces 4" x 4". Place filling across middle and fold over. Press the edges
firmly together and make 4-5 deep slashes in this side. Let rise, brush
with egg white and spread with chopped almonds and sugar.

Spandauers. Roll our dough, spread with paste and cut as above. Place
filling in middle. Fold corners to the center and press down. After baking
drop 1 teaspoon of jelly in the center and spread with frosting of
confectioner's sugar and water.

Chocolate Buns (Cremeboller). Roll out dough, spread with paste and cut as
above. Place filling of vanilla creme in middle, fold corners to center,
forming dough as a ball and place upside down on baking sheet. After baking
spread with frosting of con- fectioner's sugar, cocoa and water.

As filling may be used apple sauce, jelly, prunes, vanilla creme or almond
paste:

Vanilla Creme. Mix 1 egg yolk, 1 tablespoon sugar, 1 table- spoon flour and
3/4 cup milk and cook until thick. Take off, add 1/2 teaspoon vanilla
extract and cool stirring occasionally.

Almond Paste. Cream 1/2 cup butter, add 1/4 lb. ground, blanched almonds
and 1/2 cup sugar and well until smooth. Another kind of almond paste
without butter is made of: 1/4 ]b. almonds, 1/2 cup sugar and 3 egg whites.
Work well together until smooth.

From "Danish Cookery" by Suzanne, Andr. Fred. Host & Son, Copenhagen, 1957.

Posted by Stephen Ceideberg

