Title: Imam Bayaldi (Eggplant Stuffed with Aromatics)
Categories: Greek, Vegetarian, Vegetables
Yield: 5 servings
8    Tomatoes, sliced
1/2 c  Chopped fresh parsley
4    Garlic cloves, peeled and
- sliced
Freshly ground pepper
1 pn Granulated sugar
Fresh parsley for garnish
Karen Mintzias
2 1/2 lb Eggplants
Salt
3 md Onions, peeled and sliced
1/2 c  Water
5 tb Olive oil
5    Fresh tomatoes, peeled and
- sliced, or: canned plum
*Note: 8 canned plum tomatoes, sliced, may be substituted for the 5 fresh.

Wash the eggplants, cut off the stem end if using large ones and cut in
half lengthwise.  With the tip of a sharp knife, make at least 3 lengthwise
slashes on the cut sides of the eggplants, being careful not to pierce the
skin on the opposite side.   Sprinkle with salt and let stand for 30
minutes.  Rinse with cold water, dry, and invert to drain.

Meanwhile, put the onions in a small pan with the 1/2 cup water and simmer
a few minutes.  Drain and discard the water or save for soup.

In a medium frying pan, heat 2 tablespoons of the oil and saute the onions
until soft, then put approximately a third of them in the bottom of a
buttered casserole large enough to accomodate all the eggplants. Set 4 to 5
tomato slices over the onions in the casserole and add the rest of the
tomatoes to the onion remaining in the frying pan. Saute onions and
tomatoes for 10 minutes, then stir in all but 2 tablespoons of the parsley
and remove from the heat.  Set the eggplants into the casserole, tuck a
slice of garlic into each eggplant slash, and stuff the slashes with the
filling, allowing some to cover the top of the eggplant.  Season lightly
with salt, pepper, and a pinch of sugar, then dribble the remaining oil and
chopped parsley over the eggplants.  Cover the casserole with a lid or
aluminum foil and bake in a moderate oven (350 F) for 30 to 40 minutes,
until fork-tender, removing the cover during the last 10 minutes, to allow
the sauce to thicken.  Garnish with parsley and serve warm.

Note: This is excellent as a first course of a subsequently light meal
topped with fresh fruit and Turkish coffee.

If you wish, you may leave the eggplants whole, slash one side and remove
some of the pulp with a small spoon.  This pulp is then sauteed with the
filing and stuffed into the eggplant, a very attractive method for the
smaller eggplants.  As you might suspect, both variations may also be
prepared on top of the stove.

From: "The Food of Greece" by Vilma Liacouras Chantiles.  Avenel Books, New
York.

Typed for you by Karen Mintzias

