Title: Rolled Calzones
Categories: Italian, Appetizers
Yield: 4 servings
1/4 lb Provolone cheese, sliced
1/8 lb Coppacola (spicy italian
-ham) thinly sliced
2    Sweet red peppers, roasted,
-peeled and sliced
2 oz Pepperoncinis, drained and
-chopped (6 - 8)
1    Egg
1    Egg white
Cornmeal
1/4 oz Active dry yeast
1 1/4 c  Warm water
1/2 c  Olive oil
4 c  Bread flour
1 ts Salt
Chopped fresh rosemary,
-tarragon and oregano
For the filling
2 oz Pesto
1/4 lb Ham, thinly sliced
Servings: 4 - 6 as a sandwich

QUAN    MEAS    ING **

For the Pizza Dough

*DIRECTIONS*

Soften the yeast in the water. Stir in the oil, then the flour and salt.
Knead dough on a floured board until smooth and elastic (about 20 minutes).
Shape into a round ball, cover with plastic and refrigerate 1 hourl

Preheat oven to 400 degrees.  Shape the pizza dough into a ball and then
roll out into a large oval shape (about 24 inches long). About 2 inches
behind the front edge, spread the pesto in a long stripe, stopping just
short of the ends.

Just behind and overlapping the pesto, place a layer of the ham slices,
then a layer of cheese then the coppacolla, peppers and pepperoncinis. You
should still have about 2 inches of dough showing at the back edge.

Beat the egg and brush on the back edge and ends of the dough.

Roll up Calzone as firmly as possible (so no air gets inside). Tuck the
ends in and finish with the back edge on the bottom, not on the side.

Place on a baking sheet pan sprinkled with corn meal, brush with egg white
and bake in a 400 degree oven for 20 minutes.

Cool to room temperature and slice.  Can be sliced thin for appetizers

NOTE: To roast peppers, preheat broiler.  Slice the peppers in half
lengthwise. Core them and remove the seeds and ribs. Lay the pieces skin
side up on a flat broiling pan and place the pan 3 - 4 inches below the
heat.  Broil the peppers until the skins are charred (they should be
black).  Then place the peppers in a plastic bag, seal it with a twist tie
and set aside.  Let peppers steam in the bag for 15 minutes. Remove the
peppers from the bag and slip off the charred skins.

Source: Chef's Night out Cookbook

Courtesy of: George Poston, Chef - Atwater's

