Title: Scottish Eggs
Categories: Cheese/eggs, Ethnic
Yield: 6 servings
1 ts Cumin
1 ts Water
Flour for coating purposes
Fine, dry breadcrumbs
1/2    Dz Kokanee beer
1 lb Sausage meat
7    Eggs
2 tb Finely chopped or grated
-onion
1 ts Poultry seasoning or sage
First, you shoot a bear and have part of the meat made into sausage.  If
you're one of those unfortunates who doesn't hunt, I suppose you'd use pork
sausage meat instead.

To begin, crack a Kokanee, pour it into a frosted mug and quaff it while
six of the eggs are hard boiling.  When they're done, put them to one side
and mix the meat, onion, and spice mixture together.  Take the resulting
mixture and coat the eggs with it carefully and evenly.  You might even
want to peel the shells off first - although they do add an interesting
texture.

When the eggs are done, roll them in the flour, shake off the excess, and
put the eggs in the fridge for about an hour so the meat sets up. While
you're waiting, you might as well crack another Kokanee and put your feet
up; no sense straining yourself.

A couple of minutes before the hours up, lightly beat the remaining egg
with the tsp. of water.  Again, you might want to remove the shell... Take
the eggs, dip them in the egg mixture, and roll them in the breadcrumbs;
they are now ready for cooking.

Traditionally, Scotch Eggs are deep fried.  You can do that if you wish,
but who needs all the extra grease in their diet and the mess and smell? I
suggest you bake them in the oven at 375 F. for about 20 minutes or until
the sausage covering is firm when picked at with a knife or fork. I usually
stick them on a wire rack with a pan underneath so that they don't sit and
cook in any grease that renders out of the sausage.

Once done take a buddy, yourself, the Scotch Eggs, and the remaining
Kokanee into the living room.  Watch Hockey Night in Canada as the
Vancouver Canucks beat some godless team from the east while drinking
Kokanee and munching the Eggs (you that is, not the Canucks) - no life like
it.

These go well with Lowenserf Hot German mustard or Louisiana Hot Sauce.
Best way to serve them is with a chilled Spinach and Bacon salad and fresh
tomatoes.  Enjoy!

