Title: Spanakopites Apo Ti Samos (Spinach Pies From Samos)
Categories: Appetizers, Greek, Vegetarian
Yield: 20 servings
1/4 c  Finely chopped dill
-OR fennel
2    Eggs; beaten
1/4 ts Ground nutmeg
Salt
Freshly ground pepper
Karen Mintzias
750 g  Fresh spinach; -OR-
500 g  Frozen leaf spinach
1 c  Finely chopped spring onions
1/4 c  Olive oil
2 c  Crumbled feta cheese
----------------------------------TO FINSH----------------------------------
1/2 c  Olive oil
10    Filo pastry sheets
OVEN TEMPERATURE: 190øC (375øF) COOKING TIME: 40 Minutes

Wash spinach well and cut off any coarse stems.  Chop coarsely and put into
a large pan.  Cover and place over heat for 7-8 minutes shaking pan now and
then or turning spinach with a fork.  Heat just long enough to wilt spinach
so that juices can run freely.  Drain well in a colander, pressing
occasionally with a spoon.  (If using frozen spinach, defrost, drain well
and chop).  Place in a mixing bowl.

Heat oil in a frying pan and gently fry spring onion until soft.  Add oil
and onion to spinach with cheese, herbs, eggs and nutmeg.  Mix well to
combine, then add salt and pepper to taste.

Open out fillo pastry sheets and cut in half, giving pieces approximately
20 x 30 cm (8 x 12 inches) in size.  Stack and cover with cloth.

Take a sheet and brush lightly with oil.  Fold in half to make a strip
about 10 cm (4 inches) wide.  Brush again with oil and spread about 2
tablespoons of filling across one long edge, leaving sides clear of
filling.  Fold in sides, then roll up firmly.  Bend roll round into a coil
and place in an oiled baking dish.  Repeat with remaining ingredients,
placing in one layer in the baking dish.

Brush tops lightly with oil and bake in a moderately hot oven for 25
minutes until golden brown.  Serve hot or cold as an appetizer or light
meal.  If serving cold, use butter instead of olive oil unless your oil is
of high quality.

Source: The Complete Middle East Cookbook - by Tess Mallos ISBN: 1 86302
069 1

Typed for you by Karen Mintzias

