Title: Tiramisu "Pick-Me-Up" Cake
Categories: Cakes, Italian
Yield: 8 servings
1    Genoese - (genoese) cake,
-sliced in 3 layers
1/4 c  Sugar
3/4 c  Espresso - or strong coffee
1 oz Rum
2 tb Cocoa powder
2    Egg yolks
1/2 c  Sugar
1 c  Mascarpone cheese
1 pt Whipping cream - chilled
1 ts Vanilla
CAKE:
This is very similar to the recipe in Andrea Appuzzo's book La Cucina di
Andrea's.

Number of Servings:   8

FILLING:

1.  Whisk egg yolks and 1/4 cup sugar together.  Whisk in the mascarpone
cheese.

2.  In a separate bowl, whip the cream, the rest of the sugar, and the
vanilla until almost stiff - NO PEAKS

3.  Fold the mascarpone cheese mixture into the whipped cream and continue
to whip, until stiff.  Set aside.

4.  Make a fully-dissolved syrup with 1/4 cup sugar, 2 Tbsp water, espresso
and rum.

5.  Brush a layer of the sponge cake with espresso mixture.  With a
spatula, smooth about half-inch thick layer of the mascarpone cheese
mixture on top.  Brush the second cake layer with espresso, and place it
espresso side down on the first layer.  Brush the top with espresso. Spread
on another half-inch of the mascarpone mixture. Repeat the procedure with
the third layer of cake.  Cover the top and sides of the cake with a thin
layer of mascarpone filling.

6.  With a sieve and a spoon, sprinkle the top of the cake with cocoa
powder.  Cover the sides of the cake with chocolate shavings. Refrigerate
at least three hours.  This cake does not hold up well when exposed to any
heat, so keep it cool

Serves eight.

From La Cucina di Andrea's - by Chef Andrea Apuzzo  89-63780 Published by
Cucina dell'ART, Inc. Andrea's Restaurant 3100 Nineteenth Street Metairie,
Louisiana 70002

Chef Andrea says, "This is a relatively new Italian dessert that is all the
rage in Italy and New York.  The original version was made with lady
fingers, and was scooped out in the manner of an English trifle. We took a
fresh approach to it by substituting sponge cake for the lady fingers. It
is so light that you don't eat it -- you inhale it."

Having enjoyed this wonderful creation, I can assure you that it also is
calory free.  (F.H.T)

From Fred Towner

