Title: BERRIES & CUSTARD IN COCONUT SHELL
Categories: Cakes, Fruits
Yield: 10 Servings
MMMMM-----------------------COCONUT PASTRY----------------------------
1 c  FLOUR; ALL PURPOSE
3/4 c  Cocount; shredded
6 tb Butter
2 tb Sugar
1    Egg yolk;large
MMMMM-------------------LEMON CUSTARD FILLING------------------------
1    Lemon; large
6 tb Butter
1/3 c  Sugar
1 tb Cornstarch
1 c  Heavy or whipping cream
2 1/2 pt Raspberries*
1 pt Blueberries
Prepare Coconut Pastry: into medium bowl, measure flour, coconut,
butter, sugar and wgg yolk. With fingertips, mix just until blended.
Press dough into bottom and up sides of 10" tart pan with removable
bottom. With fork, prick tart shell in many places to prevent puffing
and shrinking during baking. Preheat oven to 350F. Line tart shell
with foil. Bake 10 minutes. Reove foil, prick dough again. Bake tart
shell 10-15 minutes longet till golden (if pastry puffs up, press it
down gently with spoon.) Cool tart shell in pan on wire rack. While
tart shell is baking, prepare Lemon Custard Filling: from lemon,
grate 1 tsp peel and squeeze 2 Tbsp juice; set aside. In heavy 2 qt
saucepan over medium-low heat, heat butter, sugar and cornstarch,
stirring constantly, until mixture thickens and boils; boil 1 minute.
In small bowl with fork, beat egg yolks; stir in small amount of hot
sugar mixture in pan, stirring rapidly to prevent lumping. Cook,
stirring constantly, until mixture thickens and coats spoon well,
about 1 minute (mixture should be about 170F - 175F). Remove saucepan
from heat. Stir lemon peel and lemon juice into custard, cover
custard and refrigerate till very cold, about 1 hour. In small bowl,
with mixer at medium heat, beat heavy or whipping cream till soft
peaks form. With rubber spatula, or wire whisk, fold whipped cream
into custard. Evenly spoon Lemon Custard filling into cooled tart
shell. Arrange raspberries and blueberries around tart in circular
pattern. Refrigerate 1 hour or till custard sets.

* Use different fruits and berries to match the different seasons.
Bananas and oranges in the winter, pineapple and papaya in the
spring, apricots and cherries in the summer and grapes and pears in
the fall. Dice or slice fruit as needed for best looking presentation
and easy serving.

Source: _The Good Housekeeping's Illustrated Book of Desserts_

