Title: BEST ROAST DUCK
Categories: Main dish, Poultry
Yield: 4 Servings
5 lb Long Island duck, thawed,
-innards removed, wing tips
-removed, neck
Trimmed, and extra fat
-removed
4 1/2 qt Duck stock saved from a
-prior roasting, or Basic
-Chicken Stock, or three
4 cn (6-ounce) chicken broth,
-skimmed, or water
1 ts Kosher salt
3/4 ts Freshly ground black pepper
Remove the duck from the refrigerator. Let sit at room temperature
for the 20 minutes that are needed for the next step.

Pour stock into a tall narrow stockpot. Be sure there is enough room
left in the pot for the duck. By using a narrow pot, less stock is
needed to cover the duck than in a wider pot. Add the wing tips,
neck, giblets, and any blood from the duck. Cover the pot and bring
to a boil over high heat.

Meanwhile, using the tines of a fork, thoroughly prick the duck all
over, paying special attention to the fattiest areas. Insert the
tines at an angle so there is a minimum risk of pricking the meat
beneath. Carefully lower the duck into the boiling stock, neck end
first, allowing the cavity to fill with stock so the duck sinks to
the bottom of the pot. To keep the duck submerged, place a plate or
pot cover over the duck to weight it down. The Japanese
otoshi-buta-wooden lids that are 1 1/2 to 2 inches smaller than the
diameter of the pot-are perfect.

When the stock returns to a boil, reduce the heat and simmer 45
minutes. Even with the plate as weight, the duck will tend to float
to the surface, so check about every
10    to
15    minutes to see that the duck remains submerged. Keep the
stock at a gentle simmer; if it boils, the duck will rise to the
surface.

When the duck has finished simmering, spoon 1 tablespoon of the duck
fat off the top of the stock and spread it in the bottom of a shallow
12 x 8 x 1 1/2-inch roasting pan. Remove the plate and carefully lift
out the duck, holding it over the pot to drain any liquid from the
cavity. Place duck in roasting pan. Do not tuck the neck flap under
the duck. Spread it out in the pan.

Pat the duck thoroughly dry and lightly coat the skin with the salt
and pepper or one of the optional ingredients, gently pressing them
against the skin. The duck is hot and the skin is tender, so work
carefully. The duck may be prepared ahead up to this point and
refrigerated for a day. If made ahead, return duck to room
temperature. If proceeding with roasting right away, for optimum
results, leave the duck sitting out at room temperature for 30
minutes to permit the skin to dry and heat the oven to 500 degrees
with oven rack on the second level from the bottom.

Place duck in oven legs first. Roast 30 minutes. After 10 minutes,
spoon out the fat that accumulates in the roasting pan. Move the duck
around in the pan with a wooden spatula to prevent the skin from
sticking to the bottom of the pan. If it is easier, remove the pan
from the oven being careful of the hot fat and spoon off fat. This
will avoid getting fat on the inside of the oven, which would smoke.
Make sure the oven door is closed, so that the temperature doesn't go
down.

After the full 30 minutes, remove the duck from the pan. Pour or
spoon off the fat, and deglaze pan with stock or water.

When time is available, skim duck stock and place in freezer
containers for the next time, or add carcasses and bones back into
pan and cook as Duck Stock, Double Rich. Posted to MM-Recipes Digest
V3 #4.TXT

