Title: BEST EVER ORANGE SPONGE CAKE
Categories: Cakes
Yield: 12 Servings
6    Egg whites (3/4 cup)
1/4 ts Salt
6 ts Orange juice; fresh
1 3/4 c  All-purpose flour; sifted
1 1/2 c  Granulated sugar
1 ts Orange peel; freshly grated
6    Egg yolks
Confectioners sugar
Note: If desired, spray tube pan or kugelhopf pan with nonstick baking
spray before filling with batter and baking. To cool, DO NOT invert on
bottle. Instead place pan on wire rack to cool 30 minutes. Turn cake
out onto wire rack and cool completely. In large bowl of electric
mixer, let egg whites warm to room temperature, about 1 hour. Measure
flour; sift about 2 cups flour once on a sheet of waxed paper; fill
cups lightly to overflowing; with a spatula, cut off excess to make 1
3/4 level cups. Sift flour with salt; set aside. With electric mixer
at medium speed, beat egg whites until foamy. Gradually, beat in 1/2
cup of the granulated sugar, 2 tbsp at a time, beating well after
each addition. Continue beating until stiff peaks form when beaters
are slowly raised. Preheat oven to 350 degrees. In small bowl of
electric mixer, with the same beaters at high speed, beat egg yolks
until very thick and lemon colored, about 3 minutes. DO NOT UNDER
BEAT. Gradually, beat in remaining 1 cup granulated sugar; continue
beating until mixture is smooth. At low speed, blend flour mixture
and orange juice alternately into egg yolk mixture, beginning and
ending with flour and guiding batter into beaters with scraper. Add
orange peel. With whisk or rubber spatula, using under and over
motion, fold yolk mixture gently into whites. Pour batter into an
ungreased (see note 1) 9 3/4 to 10" x 4 1/2" kugelhopf pan or 10 x 4"
tube pan without removable bottom. Bake 50 to 55 minutes until cake
springs back when pressed with finger. Invert over bottle (see note
1); cool completely. Using an up and down motion, run spatula around
edge of cake and tube. Invert cake and shake to release; place on
serving plate. Sift Confectioners sugar over top of cake. To cut
cake, use knife with serrated edge. Cut gently, going back and forth
with sawing motion.

