Title: BLACK BEAN FLAN
Categories: New, Text, Import
Yield: 6 Servings
Red Onion Salsa:
1/2 sm Red onion, very, finely
-diced
1/2 bn Flatleaf parsley, leaves
-only,, coarsely chopped
2    Plum tomatoes,, coarsely
-chopped
1 ts Salt
1/4 ts Freshly ground black pepper
2 tb Olive oil
2 tb Cider vinegar
1 ts Soy sauce
1 1/2 c  Cooked black beans
2 lg Eggs
1 lg Egg yolk
1 c  Milk
1 ts Salt
1/2 ts Freshly ground black pepper
3 ds Tabasco sauce
3 tb Unsalted butter,, melted
5 oz Log of goat cheese
1/2 bn Watercress, tough stems
-removed,, for garnish
Combine all the ingredients for the salsa in a small glass bowl and
toss together well. Cover and refrigerate for up to 2 hours. Preheat
the oven to 350 degrees. In a food processor, pulse 1 cup of the
black bean until pureed, scraping down the bowl as necessary. In a
medium mixing bowl, combine the pureed beans with the whole eggs,
yolk, milk, salt, pepper, and Tabasco. Mix together well until only
lumps of bean skin are showing. Add the remaining 1/2 cup of whole
cooked beans and mix together gently until evenly blended. Brush 6
1/2cup ramekins with the melted butter. Pour very hot water to a
depth of 1 inch in a roasting pan large enough to hold all the
ramekins. Place the dishes in the roasting pan and fill them with the
flan mixture, making sure to add an equal amount of whole beans to
each cup. Bake for 35 minutes, or until firm in the center. Remove
from the oven and let cool to room temperature.

Using a length of fishing line or heavy sewing thread held tightly
between two hands, slice the goat cheese into 6 equal disks and set
aside at room temperature. When ready to serve, preheat a broiler to
mediumhigh heat. Run a small knife carefully around the top outside
edge of each flan and place the ramekins on a baking sheet which will
fit under the broiler. Turn the ramekins over and tap the bottom
side of each ramekin to release the flans. Shake them out onto the
baking sheet and place a disk of goat cheese on top of each. Place
the baking sheet under the broiler and toast until the goat cheese
begins to bubble. With a flatended metal spatula, transfer a flan to
each dinner plate and top with a spoonful of the salsa. Place a few
sprigs of watercress around the base of each flan and serve
immediately.

Yield: 6 servings Posted to MC-Recipe Digest V1 #

Recipe by: TOO HOT TAMALES SHOW #TH6239

From: Meg Antczak <meginny@frontiernet.net>

Date: Thu, 5 Dec 1996 21:11:52 -0500

