Title: BLACK CHOCOLATE ZINGER
Categories: Cakes, Chocolate
Yield: 10 Servings
MMMMM----------------------------CAKE---------------------------------
3/4 c  Water
1 tb Instant coffee granules
6 oz Unsweetened chocolate,
Coarsely chopped
3 tb Honey
2 c  Sifted unbleached
All-purpose flour
1 ts Baking soda
1/4 ts Salt
2 ts Freshly ground
Black pepper
8 tb (1 stick) unsalted butter,
Softened & cut into 1"pieces
1/4 c  Solid vegetable shortening
2 c  Superfine granulated sugar
4 lg Eggs, at room temperature
2 ts Vanilla extract
1/2 c  Ice water
MMMMM-----------------------GANACHE GLAZE----------------------------
2    3-oz bars Swiss Dark
Chocolate, such as Lindt
6 oz Heavy cream
1 tb Light corn syrup
1 tb Grand Marnier, Cointreau
Or dark rum
3/4 ts Vanilla extract
1 ts Hot water, if needed
MAKE THE CAKE: 1. Position a rack in the lower third of the oven and
preheat to 350 degrees.  Butter a 12 cup fluted tube pan. Dust with
flour and tap out the excess. 2. In a small saucepan, bring the 3/4
cup water to a boil. Immediately remove from the heat and stir in the
coffee until disolved.  Add the chocolate and honey and whisk until
the chocolate is melted and the mixture thickens. Let cool for 10 to
15 minutes, until tepid. 3. In a medium bowl, using a wire whisk,
stir together the flour, baking soda, salt and pepper, until
throughly blended. 4. In a 4 1/2 quart bowl of a heavy-duty electric
mixer using the paddle attachment, beat the butter at medium speed
for 30 to 45 seconds, until creamy and smooth. Add the vegetable
shortening. Increase the speed to medium-high and beat for 30 seconds
longer. 5. Add the sugar, 1 tablespoon at a time, taking 8 to 10
minutes to blend well.  If using a hand mixer, take at least 15
minutes to blend well. Scrape the sides of the bowl occasionally. 6.
Add the eggs, one at a time at 1 minute intervals.  Reduce the speed
to medium. Stir the chocolate/honey mixture once or twice, then add
to the batter along with the vanilla, scraping the side of the bowl
as necessary. Beat 30 seconds longer. 7.  At low speed, one-third at
a time, beat in the flour mixture alternately with the ice water. Mix
briefly just until each addition is barely incorporated into the
batter.  Scrape down the side of the bowl and mix the batter 10 more
seconds. 8. Scrape the batter into the prepared pan and smooth the
surface with the back of a spoon. Center the pan on the rack and bake
for 65 to 75 minutes, until the cake begins to come away from the
side of the pan and a wooden toothpick inserted into the center comes
out clean. 9. Set the cake onto a wire rack to cool for 15 to 20
minutes. Invert the cake onto the rack and remove the pan. Cool
completely. MAKE THE GANACHE GLAZE: 10. Break the chocolate bars into
1-inch pieces and place them in a food processor fitted with the
metal chopping blade. Process for 15 to 25 seconds, until finely
chopped. Empty the chocolate into a medium bowl. 11. In a small
saucepan, heat the cream and corn syrup on low heat until it comes to
a gentle boil. Immediately pour the hot cream over the chocolate.
Let the mixture stand for 30 seconds to melt the chocolate. Gently
whisk until smooth.  Stir in the liqueur or rum and vanilla. If the
surface is oily, stir in 1/2 to 1 teaspoon of hot water. 12. Put the
wire rack with the cake over a baking sheet.  Pour the chocolate
glaze over the top of the cake.  Let the glaze drip down the sides of
the cake without coating it completely. Lift up the rack with the
cake and transfer it to another baking sheet.  Put the baking sheet
with the cake in the refrigerator to chill for 5 to 10 minutes to set
the glaze. 13. Store the cake at room temperature under a glass cover
or in an airtight container for up to 5 days.

