Title: BLACKOUT CAKE - PART TWO
Categories: Cakes, Desserts, Chocolate
Yield: 1 Servings
- Continuation of Part One
Bake for 35 to 40 minutes, or until the layers shrink from the sides
of the pans and the tops spring back when gently pressed with a
fingertip. The cake is dense and moist, so be careful not to overbake
it. Cool the layers on wire racks for 10 minutes, then carefully
invert them onto the racks. Turn right side up and let cool
completely.

Make the pudding.  Combine the sugar, cornstarch, and salt in a small
heavy saucepan.  Gradually add the milk, mixing thoroughly with a
wire whisk. Add the chocolate. Place over moderate heat and cook,
stirring constantly, until the mixture thickens and bubbles for 3
minutes. Remove from the heat and stir in the vanilla. Pour into a
small bowl and put plastic wrap or wax paper directly on the surface
to prevent a skin from forming.

Make the frosting.  Melt the chocolate in the top of a double boiler.
Remove it from the heat and cool slightly. In a medium bowl, beat the
butter, vanilla, and eggs until well mixed. The mixture will not blend
completely - do not worry.  Gradually beat in the sugar, about 2 Tbl
at a time, beating well after each addition. Beat in the melted
chocolate. Chill the frosting while assembling the rest of the cake,
about
15    minutes.

Cut each cake layer in half horizontally, using a serrated knife. You
now have 4 layers, 3 for the cake assembly and 1 for the outside
crumbs. Place one of the layers in the food processor bowl and
pulse-chop to make crumbs; set aside.  (Or break it up with your
hands.)

Sandwich the remaining 3 layers with the chocolate pudding filling,
assembling the cake on a cardboard circle or the bottom of a
springform pan, if possible. Frost the side and top of the cake with
the chocolate frosting. Working over a baking sheet lined with
aluminum foil or wax paper, hold the cake in the palm of your hand.
With the other hand, gently press the cake crumbs all over the top
and sides of the cake, pressing them to adhere.  Pick up any crumbs
that drop and press them back on.

