Title: BLACK BEAN & SMOKED CHICKEN SOUP
Categories: None
Yield: 4 Servings
1/2 c  Dried black beans
2 c  Water
1    Bay leaf
Light vegetable oil cooking
-spray
1/2 c  Peeled and chopped broccoli
-stems
1/2 c  Scraped & cubed carrot
(1 medium carrot)
1 c  Scraped & cubed celery
(2 med stalks)
1 c  Chopped onion (1 medium)
1 tb Dried thyme
1 tb Dried basil
1/2 c  Dry white wine
8 oz Boneless skinless chicken
-breast
4 tb Barbecue sauce (no oil type)
1 c  Chicken stock, fat skimmed
12 oz Evaporated skim milk
2 c  Broccoli florets
1 tb Cornstarch dissolved in 2 tb
-cold water
1 tb Liquid smoke
1 tb Worcestershire sauce
1 ts Tabasco sauce
1/4 c  Chopped fresh cilantro
Pick over and rinse the beans. Put them into a large bowl and cover
completely with cold water.  Let the beans soak overnight (or for at
least 8 hours).

Drain the beans and transfer them to a medium saucepan. Add the 2 cups
water and the bay leaf. Bring to a boil over medium heat and cook for
15 minutes.  Reduce the heat to low and simmer, uncovered, for about
20 minutes, until the beans are tender. Drain the beans and discard
the bay leaf.

Preheat the oven to 400 degrees.

Place a heavy stockpot over medium heat for about 1 minute, then
spray it twice with the vegetable oil. Add the broccoli stems,
carrot, celery, and onion. Cover, reduce the heat to low, and cook
for 5 minutes, stirring once or twice.  Stir in the thyme, basil, and
wine. Simmer, uncovered, for about 15 minutes, until the wine has
been reduced by half.

In the meantime, coat the chicken thoroughly with the barbecue sauce
and bake for 10 minutes on the top shelf of the oven. Remove the
chicken from the oven and allow it to cool just long enough to
handle. Cut the chicken into small cubes.

Add the chicken, chicken stock, and beans to the stockpot. Cook over
low heat for about 3 minutes, until thoroughly heated. Stir in the
evaporated milk and the broccoli florets. Cook for 5 minutes,
stirring if needed to keep the soup from coming to a boil. Add the
dissolved cornstarch and cook for 2 minutes more, stirring
constantly. Stir in the liquid smoke, Worcestershire sauce, and
Tabasco sauce.

Garnish with chopped cilantro.

Fat per serving= 3.6 grams    Calories per serving= 368

IN THE KITCHEN WITH ROSIE  by Rosie Daley Submitted By PAT KEYS
<PATTYK@BCFREENET.SEFLIN.LIB.FL.US>  On   SAT, 20 MAY 1995 001228
~0400 (EDT)

