Title: CORN~ BEAN & PUMPKIN STEW
Categories: Main dish, Low-fat
Yield: 1 Serving
-autumnal stew. Make it
-hotter, if you like, with
-ground ancho chilies or
-chili powder."
1 C pinto beans, soaked overnight and drained 1 lb tomatoes, fresh or
canned, peeled, seeded, and chopped, juice reserved 3 ears corn
(about 1 1/2 C kernels)
1 t  cumin seeds 1 t oregano 1 inch piece of cinnamon
3    cloves 1 large onion, cut into a medium dice 2 cloves
garlic, finely chopped
1 T  paprika 2 C bean broth or stock (If you make the stock
yourself, she suggests one made with carrots, zucchini, onion,
potato, parsley, garlic, cinnamon, cloves, coriander seeds, cumin
seeds, cardamom pods, and salt.) 3 C pumpkin or winter squash, peeled
and cut into 1 inch cubes 2 serrano chilies, seeded and finely
chopped Cilantro or parsley, chopped, for garnish

Cook the beans in water and 1/2 t salt for about 1.5 hours or until
beans are tender. Drain and reserve the cooking liquid. Warm a small
heavy skillet and toast the cumin seeds until their fragrance
emerges; then add the oregano, stir for 5 seconds, and quickly
transfer the spices to a plate or bowl so they don't burn. Combine
them with the cinnamon and the cloves, and grind to a powder in an
electric spice mill.

Heat a wide skillet (with water or some sauteing liquid) and saute the
onion briskly over high heat for 1 minute; then lower the heat to
medium. Add the garlic, the spice, the paprika, and 1 t salt. Stir
well to combine; then add 1/2 C reserved bean broth or stock and
cook, stirring occasionally, until the onion is soft. Next add the
tomatoes and cook 5 minutes. Then add the pumpkin or winter squash
along with another C of bean broth or stock. After 20 to 30 minutes,
or when the pumpkin is about half-cooked -- soft but still too firm
to eat -- add the corn, the beans, and the fresh chilies. Thin with
the reserved tomato juice, adding more broth or stock as necessary.
Cook until the pumpkin is tender. Check the seasoning, and add more
salt if necessary. Serve garnished with the chopped cliantro or
parsley.

Even though there is corn in the stew, corn bread or tortillas make a
good accompaniment.

