Title: COUNTRY FAIR BANANA CREAM PIE
Categories: Desserts, Pies
Yield: 12 Servings
-Nut Crust
2 c  Pecans
1 c  Butter, softened
3 c  Flour
1    Egg,beaten
1/2 c  Sugar
-Chocolate Layer
1 c  Chocolate chips
1    Stick unsalted butter
1 tb Light corn syrup
1 ts Vanilla
-Banana
1 c  Milk
4    Egg yolks
1 c  Sugar
5 tb Flour
3 tb Unsalted butter
1 tb Rum or 1 tsp. vanilla
2    Bananas
-Juice of 1/2 lemon
2 c  Heavy cream
-Chopped pecans,optional
For the crust: Chop pecans very fine,preferably in a food processor
fitted with a metal blade.Place in bowl with other crust ingredients
and mix until well blended.Divide in half and press into the bottom
of 2 pie pans.Chill 30 minutes. Bake the pie crusts for 25 minutes @
350 degrees.Cool completely.

For chocolate layer: Melt chocolate with butter and corn syrup in the
top of a double boiler set over hot,not boiling water.Stir
frequently. Remove from heat and cool,then stir in vanilla.Divide
between cooked pie crusts and spread evenly.

For Filling: Heat milk in a medium size saucepan over medium heat to
scald.Beat the egg yolks and gradually add sugar.Then beat in flour.
Gradually stir in hot milk.Transfer to medium saucepan and
cook,stirring constantly over medium high heat(use a whisk).The
mixture will lump as it begins to thicken.Bring the mixture to a boil
and boil 1 minute,stirring constantly.Remove from the pan from heat
and continue to stir until the mixture is smooth.Then,beat in butter
and optional rum.Cool to room temperature. Peel the bananas,slice
very thin and toss with lemon juice.Whip 1 cup of the cream until it
is firm but not stiff.Mix about 1/4 of the cream into the cooled egg
mixture to lighten it,then fold the remaining cream and bananas into
egg mixture.Fill the pastry shells with banana cream and smooth to
even.Beat remaining cream until stiff. Spoon around edge of the pies
and sprinkle with chopped pecans,if desired.Makes 2 pies.

Posted on FIDO COOKING 2-22-94 by Pat Stockett Converted by MMCONV
vers. 1.50

