Title: COUNTRY PAT# WITH PISTACHIOS
Categories: Appetizers
Yield: 8 Servings
1 tb Butter
1/2 c  Shallots; coarsely chopped
1/2 lb Pork liver; OR veal liver,
-cut into 1" cubes
1/4 ts Thyme, dry
1/2    Bay leaf; crumbled
3/4 lb Veal, lean; cut into
-1" cubes
1 lb Pork, lean; cut into
-1" cubes
1/2 lb Ham; cooked, cut into
-1/2" cubes
1/2 c  Pistachios; shelled, toasted
1/8 ts Allspice
1/8 ts Cloves, ground
1/4 ts Nutmeg
1/8 ts Cumin, ground
1 pn Cinnamon, ground
1 pn Cayenne pepper
1/2 c  Wine, white, dry
Salt; to taste
Pepper; to taste
2 sl Bacon
Preheat the oven to 425F.

Heat the butter in a heavy skillet and add the shallots. Cook briefly,
stirring.  Add the liver and sprinkle with the thyme and bay leaf.
Cook about 2 minutes, stirring occasionally.

Put the veal in a food processor or blender and blend it slightly
finer than store-bought hamburger.  Empty the veal into a mixing bowl.

Put the pork in the food processor or blender and blend it a little
coarser than store-bought hamburger. Add the pork to the veal.

Put the liver mixture in the food processor or blender and blend it as
finely as possible.  Pour and scrape it into the bowl with the pork
and veal.  Add the ham and pistachios. Add the allspice, cloves,
nutmeg, cumin, cinnamon, cayenne, wine, salt and pepper and blend
well with your fingers. To test the mixture for seasoning, shape a
small portion into a patty and cook it, turning once, in a nonstick
sillet until cook through. Taste the patty and add more seasonings as
desired.

Pack the mixture in a 5- or 6-cup loaf pan.  Smooth the top, rounding
it slightly.  Place the bacon slices on top. Cover tightly with foil
and place the pan in a heatproof baking dish. Set the dish on the
stove and pour in boiling water around the loaf pan.  Bring the water
to a boil. Place the pan in the water bath in the oven and bake 45
minutes or to an internal temperature of 150F.  Remove the pan from
the oven and let stand until ready to serve.

The pat# is excellent hot or cold.  Cut it crosswise into slices and
serve.

Recipe from "Cuisine Rapide"
:
by Pierre Franey and Bryan Miller. Submitted By SAM
WARING <SAM.WARING@382-91-12.IMA.INFOMAIL.COM>  On   MON, 06 NOV 1995
105654 GMT

