Title: COUNTRY PAT‚
Categories: Appetizers, Pork, Veal
Yield: 3 Pounds
1 1/2 lb Pork, boneless; ground fine
-twice
1 lb Veal, boneless; ground fine
-twice
3/4 c  Wine, white, dry
2 tb Brandy
2 tb Oil
Salt
Pepper, black
2 lg Onion; sliced thin
2 sm Garlic clove; halved
1 lb Pork fatback, fresh;
-sliced thin
Cornichons; for garnish
In a large bowl, combine the pork and veal. Mix the wine, brandy and
oil with salt and pepper to taste, and pour the mixture over the
meats. Scatter the onions and garlic on top. Cover the bowl tightly
and refrigerate it for at least 24 hours.

Preheat the oven to 375-F. Discard the onions, but put the garlic
through a press and knead it into the meats together with the wine
mixture. Break off a small piece of meat and fry it in a lightly
oiled skillet over moderate heat for 3 or 4 minutes, or until its
juices run clear, without a trace of pink. Taste the piece and, if
you like, add more garlic, salt and pepper. (Pork is unsafe to eat
uncooked; do not taste the meats raw.)

Slightly overlapping the slices, line the bottom and sides of a
2-quart terrine mold or a 7 1/2 x 3 1/2 x 2 1/2 inch loaf pan with
the fatback. Pack the meat mixture into the mold, and arrange the
remaining slices of fatback on top of it. Fit foil over the mold, or
cover the meat mixture with foil and a lid. To let steam escape,
pierce a hole in the foil with a skewer. If you are using a lid,
insert the skewer through its hole to puncture the foil.

Set the mold on a rack in a large pan or dish. Place them all in the
oven, and pour enough almost-boiling water into the pan to cover 2/3
of the mold. Bake for 2 hours or until the paté shrinks slightly from
the sides of the mold and the surrounding fat and juices are a clear
yellowish white with no traces of pink. Or insert a meat thermometer;
it should register 160-F when the paté is done.

Take the paté from the oven, but leave the foil in place. Set the
pate on a rack to cool to room temperature. Then put another pan with
a heavy can or weights inside it, or even a brick, on top of the paté
to compact the meats. Chill the paté thoroughly (overnight is best)
with the weights in place. Before serving, cut the cornichons into a
fan shape, slicing lengthwise through the pickle 4 or 5 times to
within 1/2 inch of one end. Spread the slices into a fan, and garnish
the paté with it.

Source: Best Recipes from Time-Life Books,
ISBN# 0-517-06502-9
Originally from: Great Dinners from Life

