Title: COUNTRY CAPTAIN
Categories: Poultry
Yield: 6 Servings
1    (5 1/2-to-6 lb) stewing hen
-or capon,
- cleaned and dressed
2    Whole bay leaves
2    Stalks celery (include tops)
2 qt Water
2 lg Yellow onions; peeled
- coarsely chopped
2 lg Sweet green peppers; cored,
- seeded & coarsely chopped
2    Garlic cloves
- peeled and crushed
1/4 c  Olive or other cooking oil
1/3 c  Minced parsley
1 c  Dried currants or raisins
1 tb Curry powder
1 ts Cayenne pepper
1/4 ts Freshly ground black pepper
1/2 ts Dried thyme, crumbled
1/4 ts Ground cloves
2 ts Salt
2 cn (1 lb, 12 oz) tomatoes
- with their juice
3 c  Reserved chicken stock
1 c  Toasted slivered almonds
-(topping)
REMOVE ALL BODY FAT from the cavity of the bird, then place the bird
and giblets in a large kettle. Add the bay leaves, celery and water,
cover, and simmer 10-to-15 minutes; remove the liver and reserve.
Re-cover the chicken and simmer 1-to-1 1/2 hours or until tender.
Lift the chicken from the kettle and cool, strain the stock and
reserve. In the same kettle, stir-fry the onions, green peppers and
garlic in the oil 8-to-10 minutes over moderate heat until the onions
are golden. Add all remaining ingredients except the almonds and
simmer, uncovered, 45 minutes, stirring now and then. Meanwhile, skin
the chicken, remove the meat from the bones, and cut in bite-sized
pieces; also dice the giblets and reserved liver. Add the chicken,
giblets and liver to the kettle and simmer, uncovered, for 15
minutes. NOTE: At this point, you can cool the mixture to room
temperature, ladle into 1-quart freezer containers, filling to about
1-inch of the top. Snap on the lids, label and date, then set in a
zero-degree freezer and freeze until firm. The Country Captain can be
made several weeks--even months--ahead of time. When ready to serve,
place the blocks of frozen Country Captain in a large, heavy kettle,
set over low heat, cover and bring slowly to serving temperature,
stirring now and then, taking care not to break up the chunks of
chicken. Remove and discard the bay leaves. Serve the Country Captain
over fluffy boiled rice (you can cook the rice while the Country
Captain reheats) then sprinkle each portion with some of the toasted
slivered almonds. Makes 6 to 8 Servings

