Title: CRAB FRITTERS
Categories: Seafood, Appetizers
Yield: 24 Servings
1 3/4 c  All-purpose flour
1 1/2 c  Warm water
2 tb Vegetable oil
2 ts Baking powder
1/8 ts Salt
1 lb Crabmeat
3/4 c  Fresh white breadcrums
4 lg Egg whites, divided
3 tb Chopped fresh parsley
Salt and pepper, to taste
All-purpose flour, for
Dredging
Vegetable oil,for deep
Frying
MMMMM------------------------CURRY SAUCE-----------------------------
1 1/2 tb Olive oil
1 sm Garlic clove, minced
1 ts Curry powder
1/2 c  Mayonnaise
1/2 c  Sour cream
2 tb Orange Juice
1 tb Sugar
1 tb Fresh lemon juice
1 tb Chutney
Mix the first five ingredients in a medium bowl to blend. Let the
bater stand for 1 hour at room temperature. Mix the crabmeat, bread
crumbs, two of the egg whites and the parsley in a large bowl. Season
with salt and pepper.  Divide the mixture into 24 mounds. press each
mound firmly into a ball.  Roll each crabmeat ball in flour; shake
off excess. Immediately before frying, beat the remaining egg whites
in a small bowl to stiff peaks.  Fold the egg whites into the batter.

Heat the oil in a deep fryer or heavy saucepan to 360F. Dip the
crab balls, one at a time, into the batter, coating completely.
Carefully lower into the oil. Repeat with the remaining crab balls,
cooking until pale and golden brown, about 5 minutes.  Use a slotted
spoonto transfer the fritters to paper towels and drain. Serve with
Curry Sauce.

Makes 24 fritters.

NOTES:
Do not overcrowd the fryer or saucepan when making these crab
fritters.  Make no more than 5 fritters at a time.
Be certain to slide the fritters gently into the hot oil.
Dropping them into the oil can can cause a dangerous splash.
Turn the fritters frequently as they fry, making sure that all
sides are browned.

Heat the oil in a small heavy skillet over medium heat. add the
garlic and saute for 1 minute.  Add the curry powder and stir for 1
minute. Transfer the mixture to a blender. Add all of the remaining
ingredients and blend until smooth.  Pour into a bowl.

[The Baltimore Sun; Dec 11, 1991] Posted by Fred Peters.

