Title: CRAFTS FOR KIDS WITH FOOD
Categories: Kids
Yield: 6 Servings
1 c  Flour
1/2 c  Salt
2 tb Cooking oil
2 tb Cream of tartar
1 c  Water with desired color of
-food coloring
From: Healthy Meals and More

HOMEMADE PLAY DOUGH

Cook the above mixture over medium heat stirring until stiff. Cool and
knead out lumps. Store in airtight container.

FINGER PAINTING

For young children, prepare instant chocolate pudding and let them do
creative finger painting with no danger if some finds its way to their
mouths!

MACARONI PICTURES

Have various shapes of pasta to choose from. Let children glue these
onto colored paper for creative pictures.

PLACE MATS

Let children draw their own pictures on fairly heavy paper. Use clear
contact paper to cover the front and back of the drawing. They now
have their own personal placemat. These make fun presents for Mom and
Dad for special occasions.

CHRISTMAS TREE ORNAMENTS

1 cup cornstarch 2 cups baking soda 1 1/4 cups cold water

Mix and cook over medium heat stirring constantly about 4 minutes or
til mixture thickens into a moist mashed potato-like consistency.
Cover with a cloth while it cools enough to knead it.

Roll out dough and cut into shapes using a straw to put a hole in the
top for a ribbon to hang on the Christmas tree.

Dry 24 hours. Paint with tempera paints.

PAPIER MACHE

Dry laundry starch cold water

Mix the starch and water in equal amounts. Stir completely. Let
stand. This will thicken. Tear newspaper or tissue paper into strips.
Dip these strips into mixture. Shape over a balloon or into a mask
shape, figures, animals, etc. Let dry 3 days or so, depending on
thickness. Paint with acrylic paints.

ARGO DO-IT YOURSELF CLAY THAT'S SAFE FOR KIDS

2 cups baking soda 1 cup Argo Corn Starch 1 1/4 cups water

Mix cornstarch and baking soda, add water, mix. Bring to a boil,
stirring constantly. Thicken to consistency of mashed potatoes. Form
clay into desired shapes, let dry for 36 hours, color with paint or
felt-tip marker, and coat with shellac or clear nail polish.

