Title: CRAWFISH STUFFED MANICOTTI
Categories: Seafood, Pasta, Italian
Yield: 6 Servings
4 tb Butter
2 bn Green onions - finely
-chopped (use about 1 inch
-of
The fresh green part)
4 tb Parsley - minced
3    Clove garlic - finely minced
1/4 c  Brandy
8 tb Butter
6 tb Flour
2 c  Light cream
2 c  Milk
1/2 c  White wine - dry
1/2 c  Tomato ketchup
4 tb Tomato paste
1    Lemon - juiced
1 tb Worcestershire sauce
4 c  Crawfish tails - whole,
-boiled
Salt, pepper and Tabasco to
-taste
1 pk Manicotti
STUFFING:
1    Stick butter
1 1/2 c  Onions - finely chopped
1 bn Green onions - finely
-chopped
1 c  Celery - finely chopped
1 c  Green pepper - finely
-chopped
3    Clove garlic - minced
4 tb Parsley - finely chopped
1    Lemon - juiced
2    Bay leaves
1 ts Thyme leaves
4 c  Crawfish tails - boiled,
-finely chopped
2 c  Bread crumbs - fine
Salt, pepper and Tabasco to
-taste
1    Egg
CRAWFISH STUFFED MANICOTTI: Melt the 4 tablespoons butter. Fry the
green onions, parsley and garlic until onions are wilted. Add the
crawfish tails and let all of this fry until sizzling hot. Heat a
small pot and pour in the brandy. Remove the crawfish from fire,
ignite the brandy and pour into the crawfish mixture. Toss until
flames die down. Set aside.

In another pot, melt 8 tablespoons butter.  Add the flour and let
this cook on a low fire until flour is cooked, about 2 minutes,
stirring often. Add the cream, milk, ketchup and tomato paste,
stirring constantly until sauce comes to a boil and starts to thicken.

Add the wine, lemon juice, Worcestershire sauce, salt, pepper and
Tabasco.

Combine both pans and simmer for a few minutes.  If sauce is too
thick, thin it out with a little more milk.

Cook manicotti according to package directions.

Note:  Do not use crawfish cooked with crab boil.

STUFFING: Melt the stick of butter. Fry onions, green onions, celery,
green pepper, garlic and parsley until wilted. Add crawfish meat,
lemon juice, bay leaves and thyme. Let all of this cook for about 10
or 15 minutes or until vegetables are cooked.  Add bread crumbs,
salt, pepper and Tabasco.

Cook for about 10 minutes, stirring often.  If stuffing is too moist,
add a little more bread crumbs. Add the egg and mix well.

Stuff the manicotti carefully and lay them in a lightly greased
baking dish in a single layer.

Pour most of the sauce over the manicotti and bake covered in a 350 F
preheated oven for about 35 to 40 minutes or until manicotti are fully
cooked.  Spoon reserved sauce over manicotti when served.

Serves 5 to 7.

Note:  Do not use crawfish cooked with crab boil.

Recipe from Marguerite Sigur, Times-Picayune Cooking Contest, 1985.

