Title: GARLIC & CHEESE BETZELS (TRIANGLES)
Categories: Appetizers
Yield: 32 Servings
6    Eggs -- for filling
1 c  Gruyere cheese -- freshly
Grated
10    Garlic cloves -- minced (10
To 12)
24    Sprigs fresh flat-leaf
Parsley -- minced
5    Fresh mint leaves -- minced
12    Green olives, pitted --
Minced
Salt and pepper -- freshly
Ground
2 ts Sweet paprika
2    Egg -- lightly beaten
8    Sheets phyllo dough --
Thawed
Vegetable oil -- for frying
Lemon wedges -- for garnish
Preparation and Cooking: In a medium saucepan, place 6 of the eggs,
add water to cover, and bring to a low boil. Cook the eggs for 12 to
15 minutes. Drain and let cool. Peel, place the eggs a medium bowl,
and mash them coarsely with a fork. Mix in the cheese, garlic,
parsley, mint, olives, salt, pepper, paprika and 1 lightly beaten
egg. Cover a working surface with damp towel. Carefully unwrap the
phyllo and unfold it on the towel. With the long edge of the phyllo
facing you, and using a sharp knife, cut vertically through the
stacked sheets of dough to make 4 equal sections, each about 4-1/2
inches wide. Cover with another damp towel if you are not using the
phyllo immediately. Place l tablespoon of the filling about l inch
from the bottom edge of one strip. Fold over a bottom corner of the
strip to cover the filling. Continue folding as you would a flag, to
obtain a triangular shape. Beat the remaining egg and use it to seal
the top edge. Repeat the process until all the filling has been used.
In a heavy, medium saucepan pour oil to a depth of 2 inches and heat
it over medium-high heat until it reaches 325 degrees, or a piece of
the dough sizzles instantly. Fry the pastries in batches to avoid
crowding them, until golden, about 6 to 8 minutes, and drain them
well on paper towels. Serve at oncew ith lemon wedges. Makes 32
betzels.

One ounce of cheese yields about 1/4 cup when grated or shredded.
[Riverside Press-Enterpise 22 Aug 96; mcRecipe patH]

: North Africa: the Vegetarian Table
Recipe By

