Title: GASCONY LAMB CASSEROLE
Categories: Pork, Lamb, Casseroles
Yield: 6 Servings
2 1/2 lb Lamb cut into 1in chunks
8 oz Pork belly cut into 1in
- chunks
6 oz Dried cannellini beans
1    Olive ciabatta
2    Spanish onions
24    Cloves garlic
Olive oil
2    50g tins anchovy fillets
3/4 pt Red wine
1    284ml fresh chicken stock
Green vegetable
French bread to serve
Salt & pepper
You will need a large frying pan and an earthenware casserole with a
lid.

Preheat the oven to gas mark 2 300øF 150øC.

Start the recipe the day before it is needed by bringing the beans to
the boil in plenty of water (do not add salt) and simmering for 10
minutes. Drain the beans and discard the cooking water. Put the beans
back into at least 4in of fresh, cold water and leave them to soak
overnight.

Reduce the ciabatta loaf to rough breadcrumbs.  Peel the onions and
chop into 1/2in pieces.  Peel all 24 garlic cloves - boring but worth
it in the end! Pour in enough olive oil to cover the bottom of a
large, heavy frying pan and saut‚ the onions (not the garlic) over a
medium heat for about 15 minutes until they have taken on some
colour. Using a slotted spoon, remove the onions from the pan and put
into a large earthenware casserole.

Sprinkle salt lightly and grind black pepper lavishly over the chunks
of lamb.  Add some more olive oil to the frying pan, turn the heat up
high and in 2 or 3 batches sear the lamb cubes quickly on all sides.
Remove each batch to the casserole as soon as it has browned. You
might need to add a little more oil to the frying pan as you go
along, but remember to heat it well before adding the lamb.  Once all
the lamb has been browned, put the frying pan to one side for a
moment while you add the garlic clove and whole anchovy fillets to
the casserole, tucking them well down into the layers of meat.

Return the frying pan to a high heat and 'deglaze' it by adding the
red wine and bringing it to a fast boil for 3 minutes, while
vigorously scraping all the browned sediment into the wine. Now add
the stock and continue cooking for a further 2 minutes after the
liquid returns to the boil.  Now pour everything from the pan into
the casserole. Give it a good stir, put the lid on and place in the
slow preheated oven for about 2 hours, until the meat and beans are
both very soft and tender.

When the casserole is cooked remove it from the oven and turn the
grill on to a high setting.  Dredge the breadcrumbs over the lamb in
a thick layer and trickle a little olive oil over the top. Place
under the grill for a minute or two until you have a golden brown
crust. Serve with a crisp green vegetable and warm french bread.

