Title: BABKA YABLOCHNAYA/ APPLE CHARLOTTE WITH APRIC
Categories: Candies, Desserts
Yield: 8 Servings
1 tb Unsalted butter -- softened
1/2 lb Unsalted butter --
Clarified
3 tb Unsalted butter --
Clarified
16 sl Homemade white bread --
Crusts removed
5 lb Tart red apples, peeled,
Cored -- thinly sliced
1 c  Sugar
1/3 c  Water
1 ts Ground cinnamon
With a pastry brush, lightly coat the bottom and sides of a 1 1/2
quart, 3 to 3 1/2 inch deep charlotte or other straight-sided mold
with the tablespoon of softened butter.

Pour all but 3 tablespoons of the clarified butter into a large bowl.
With a sharp knife, cut three slices of the bread into 6 triangles by
slicing them in half diagonally. Cut another 7 slices of bread in
half. One at a time, briefly dip the bread triangles into the bowl of
clarified butter and lay them side by side in the bottom of the mold.
With a small, sharp knife, trim the triangles so that their points
meet in the middle and no spaces show between the slices.  Now dip
the bread halves in the butter and stand them upright around the
sides of the mold, overlapping them slightly. The bread will rise
slightly above the top of the mold.

Cut another 3 slices of the bread into 1 inch squares. Heat the
reserved 3 tablespoons of clarified butter in a heavy 10- to 12-inch
skillet set over high heat and drop in the bread squares. Turning
them about constantly with a wooden spoon, cook the squares for 2 to
3 minutes, until they are lightly and evenly coloured on all sides.
Remove the browned bread squares from the pan with a slotted spoon
and set aside.

In a 4 quart casserole combine the apples, sugar and water. Bring to
a boil over high heat , then cover tightly, reduce the heat to low,
and simmer 30 minutes, or until the apples are tender and show no
resistance when pierced with the tip of a sharp knife. Uncover and
cook over high heat, stirring frequently, for about 15 minutes, or
until most of the liquid has evaporated and the apples become a
thick, coarse puree. Stir in the cinnamon and refrigerate the puree
until well chilled.

When ready to assemble and bake the dessert, stir the browned bread
squares into the apple puree and pour the mixture into the prepared
mold. Do not be concerned if the filling rises above the rim of the
mold; the apple puree will subside as it bakes.

Preheat the oven to 375F.  Cut 2 of the remaining slices of bread in
half, dip them in butter and place them on top of the filling. Cut
the remaining slice into narrow strips, dip them into the butter and
arrange them around the top to cover the exposed areas.

Bake in the center of the oven for 1 hour or until the bread is golden
brown.  Cool for 30 minutes at room temperature, then invert a flat
serving platter on top and, grasping the plate and mold firmly
together, turn them over.  Let the mold rest in this fashion for
another 30 minutes before gently lifting it off the cake.

Either pour the apricot sauce over the top and sides of the unmolded
apple charlotte, or serve it separately in a bowl.

: Time-Life Foods of the World Russian Cooking
Recipe By

