Title: BAKED SPINACH & SUMAC PASTRIES
Categories: New text im, Cooking rig
For the pastry dough--
Yield: 1 Servings  :
1 ts active dry yeast
1/2 ts sugar
2 TB water
2 1/2 c  all-purpose flour
1/2 ts salt
1 ts baking soda
1/4 c  olive oil
3/4 c  plain low-fat yogurt -- beat
until slightly
For the filling--
:
:
1 lb fresh spinach
Coarse salt
:
1/4 c  parsley -- chopped
1 c  onion -- finely chopped
1/2 ts allspice
1 1/2 ts sumac
Juice of 1 lemon (about 3
tablespoons)
:
:
1/2 c  walnuts -- finely chopped
Freshly ground pepper
:

Oven:  350=B0

For the dough:

In the workbowl of a food processor, combine the yeast, sugar and
water, pulsing once. Spread 2 cups of the flour mixed with the salt
and the baking soda over the yeast and place the workbowl cover on
top. Let stand 15 minutes. With the machine running, slowly add the
oil and then the yogurt. Process until smooth, about 20 seconds. Turn
the dough onto a lightly floured surface and knead until smooth and
springy in texture, about 5 minutes. Cover with a heavy kitchen towel
and put in a warm place until dough rises, about
1    hour.

For the filling:

Wash and stem the spinach. In a large colander, rub the spinach with
1 1/2 tablespoons salt, let stand for at least 30 minutes. Squeeze
the spinach to remove excess moisture; rinse to remove excess salt
and chop finely. Squeeze the spinach until dry. Add the parsley,
onion, allspice, sumac, lemon juice, olive oil, nuts and pepper to
taste. Correct the seasoning.

Preheat the oven to 350=B0. Divide the dough into nine equal parts.
On a lightly floured work surface, roll each part into a smooth round
and allow to rest for 10 minutes, then roll each part into a 5-inch
round. Place an equal amount of filling in the shape of a long
triangle in the center of each round. Fold two sides in toward the
center, and the remaining short side down to form a triangle. Crimp
the seams with fingertips. Bake on a non-stick pan until golden
brown, about 30 minutes. Remove from the oven, set the pan on a rack,
cover with a damp towel and let stand
10    minutes. Serve hot or cold.

Yield: 9 pastries

~ - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

NOTES : Show: 10/16/9

: COOKING RIGHT SHOW #CR9733
Recipe By

From: Bill Spalding <billspa@icanect.Ne

