Title: BAKED CODFISH WITH SPINACH & CHEESE SAUCE
Categories: Fish
Yield: 4 Servings
3 tb Butter
2 tb Flour
1 1/2 c  Milk
1/4 c  Heavy cream
1 c  Gruy#re
1    Egg Yolk
Salt
Pepper, black
1/8 ts Nutmeg
1 pn Cayenne
1 lb Spinach; fresh
2 tb Shallot; finely chopped
4    Cod steaks
1/2 c  Wine, white
2 tb Parmesan; grated
* The cod steaks should be boneless and skinless, about 6 oz each.
Melt 1 tablespoon of the butter in a saucepan. Add the flour and stir
with a wire whisk until blended.

Add the milk and cream all at once. Stir rapidly with the whisk.
Bring to a boil and add the Gruyere cheese. Stir until the cheese has
melted. Add the egg yolk, stirring rapidly with the whisk. Add salt,
pepper, nutmeg and cayenne. Simmer, stirring, for 1 minute. Set
aside, cover and keep warm. Pick over spinach and discard any tough
stems. Wash spinach thoroughly to remove any sand. Put spinach in a
large saucepan, add salt and cook on high heat, stirring, until
wilted, about 2 minutes. Drain well and squeeze out excess moisture.
Set aside and keep warm. Preheat the oven to 450 F. Grease a metal
baking dish with 1 tablespoon of the butter. Scatter the shallots
over the dish. neatly arrange the pieces of cod over the shallots.
Season with salt and pepper. Add the wine, cover with foil and bring
to a boil on top of the stove. Put the dish in the oven and bake for
5 minutes.

Select a baking dish large enough to hold the fish in 1 layer. Spread
the remaining 1 tablespoon of butter over the bottom of the dish.
Spoon the spinach over the bottom and carefully transfer the cooked
codfish over the spinach, reserving the wine liquid in the first dish.

Reduce by 1/2 the wine liquid in the metal baking dish and add it to
the cheese sauce. Bring to a boil stirring with a wire whisk. Spoon
the hot sauce over the fish, smoothing it over to cover the fish.
Sprinkle with Parmesan cheese. Turn on the broiler unit and put the
dish under the broiler with the door open until nicely browned and
bubbling.

