Title: BAKED POLENTA W/ITALIAN SAUSAGE~ MUSHROOMS &
Categories: Main dish, Herbs
Yield: 6 Servings
1 tb Fruity olive oil
1 sm Yellow onion; chopped
2 lg Garlic cloves; minced
1 md Red sweet pepper
-- cored, seeded and chopped
1/2 lb Mild Italian sausage
-- (the kind with fennel
-- seed and garlic)
-- with casing removed
1/2 lb Fresh mushrooms
-- (crimini, button, or
-- other type as available)
-- trimmed and thinly sliced
2 1/2 c  Milk, broth or water
3/4 c  Yellow cornmeal
-- preferably stone-ground
1 tb Chopped fresh sage
1 tb Chopped Italian parsley
1/4 ts Ground cayenne pepper
1 c  Ricotta cheese
1/2 c  Shredded gruyere cheese
-OR- other swiss cheese
Salt
Freshly ground black pepper
4 tb Butter or margarine; melted
4 tb Grated parmesan cheese
Fresh Tomato Sauce
- (see separate recipe)
MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
Fresh Italian Parsley
-- chopped
Herb sprigs
Heat olive oil in a medium skillet; saute onion, garlic, and sweet
pepper until hot through.  Add crumbled sausage and continue cooking
just until meat changes color. Stir in mushrooms and cook until hot
through. Drain excess fat and set mixture aside. Place milk or other
liquid in a large, heavy saucepan over moderately high heat; slowly
add cornmeal, stirring briskly with a wire whisk to prevent lumping.
Bring to a boil and cook 10 minutes, or until mixture is very thick
and smooth; stir constantly to prevent scorching. Remove pan from
heat and stir in herbs, cayenne pepper, and ricotta and gruyere
cheeses. Add sausage and sweet pepper mixture, combine well, then
season to taste with salt and pepper. Pour mixture into two 9-inch
pie plates lined with plastic wrap. Cool on a wire rack, then cover
and refrigerate at least an hour, or as long as three days. When
ready to serve dish, preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Cut polenta in
wedges and place on an oiled shallow baking pan large enough to hold
polenta in one layer without crowding. Drizzle with melted butter and
sprinkle with parmesan cheese.  Bake 15 to 20 minutes, or until
polenta is lightly browned and very hot when tested with a small
knife in center of wedge. Serve with Fresh Tomato Sauce, and garnish
with chopped fresh parsley and sprigs of herbs.

