Title: BAKED STUFFED EGGPLANT MIKE ELIA - PLHOL
Categories: Vegetables
Yield: 1 Servings
1 lg (1-1/4 pounds) eggplant
3 tb Olive oil
1/2 c  Chopped onion
1 c  Fresh bread crumbs
1/4 c  Parmesan cheese
3    Eggs, lightly beaten
2 tb Minced parsley
1/4 ts Salt
1/4 tb Freshly ground black pepper
2 tb Olive oil, plus 2 teaspoons
-for drizzling on top
1 lb Canned plum tomatoes and
-juice
2 1/2 c  Water
6    Ounces (1 medium)
-all-purpose or Idaho potato
1    Clove garlic, minced
1/4 ts Oregano
1/4 ts Salt
Freshly ground black pepper
-to taste
1 1/2 tb Parmesan cheese
1. Do not peel the eggplant.  Slice off the green cap and cut the
eggplant in half lengthwise.  Use a sharp knife to score the meat
into 1/2-inch cubes, leaving 1/2-inch rim around the edge. Scoop out
the flesh with a spoon and coarsely chop it.

2.  Heat the olive oil in a large skillet.  Add the eggplant cubes
and the onion to the skillet and saute over low heat, stirring
frequently, until the eggplant is softened and lightly browned, about
8 to 10 minutes. Remove the pan from the heat and stir in the bread
crubms, Parmesan cheese, eggs, and parsley. Season with the salt and
black pepper.

3.  Preheat the oven to 350 degrees (F).

4.  Sprinkle the eggplant shells lightly with salt and pepper and
divide the stuffing between them. [The recipe may be made ahead up to
this point and wrapped and refrigerated for up to 3 hours.]

5.  To make the Potato-Tomato Sauce, coat the bottom of a 7-by-11 inch
baking dish with the 2 Tablespoons olive oil. Pour the can of
tomatoes into the baking dish and cut them into quarters with a sharp
knife or the side of a spoon.  Add the water to the pan.  Peel the
potato and cut it into thin (no more than 1/4-inch thick) slices.
Stack the slices, cut them into 1/4-inch strips, and cut the strips
into small cubes. Add them to the tomato mixture in the baking dish,
along with the garlic, oregano, salt, and pepper.  Set the stuffed
eggplant shells on top of the tomato mixture. Sprinkle the Parmesan
cheese over the tops of the eggplant and into the sauce, and spoon a
few pieces of tomato from the sauce onto the tops of the eggplant to
help keep it moist. Drizzle a teaspoon or two of olive oil over the
tops of the eggplant. 6. Bake, uncovered, in the preheated oven until
the potatoes are tender and the tops of the eggplant are lightly
browned, about 1 to 1-1/4 hours.  The sauce will reduce quite a bit
as it cooks. Cut each stuffed eggplant in half, and serve one piece
each with some sauce spooned over it.

from Sunday Suppers, by Melanie Barnard & Brooke Dojny
1988    ISBN 0-13-875832-8

