Title: BANANA BREAD PUDDING WITH BANANA RUM SAUCE
Categories: Puddings
Yield: 12 Servings
MMMMM-----------------------BREAD PUDDING----------------------------
6 c  Bite-sized pieces
-of day-old French bread
3 c  Milk
3 lg Eggs
2/3 c  Plus 1 tb sugar
2 lg Very ripe bananas
3/4 tb Vanilla extract
1 tb Ground cinnamon
1/4 ts Ground nutmeg
1/2 c  Seedless raisins
1/2 c  Roasted pecans
3 tb Unsalted butter
3/4 c  Heavy whipping cream
MMMMM----------------------BANANA RUM SAUCE---------------------------
2/3 c  Unsalted butter,
-room temperature
1/2 c  Packed light brown sugar
6 lg Ripe bananas, quartered
1 ts Ground cinnamon
1/4 ts Ground nutmeg
3 tb Dark rum
2 tb Banana liqueur
1/2 ts Pure vanilla extract
Chef Frank Brigtsen of Brigtsen's Restaurant in Uptown New Orleans is
a fantastic cross between the classic bread pudding and Bananas
Foster, the great flaming bananas and ice cream dessert.

Preheat the oven to 300F. Put the French bread pieces into a 9x12x2
inch baking pan. In a blender or food processor, blend the eggs,
milk, 2/3 cup of sugar, bananas, cinnamon, nutmeg and 1/2 teaspoon of
the vanilla until smooth. Pour this mixture over the French bread
pieces. Fold in the raisins and the pecans and let the mixture set
for 20 minutes. Top with small pieces of the butter.

Cover the pudding with aluminum foil and place the pan into a larger
pan. Add warm water to a depth of 1 inch in the larger pan. Bake for
1 hour. Remove the foil and bake uncovered for 15 minutes until set.

In a deep, medium bowl, whisk the cream just until it begins to
thicken. Add the remaining 1 tablespoon of sugar and 1/4 teaspoon
vanilla. Continue whisking unti soft peaks form. Cover and chill.

Banana Rum Sauce Heat a large saute pan or skillet over low heat. Add
the butter, sugar, bananas, cinnamon and nutmeg. Moving the skillet
back and forth, cook until the butter and sugar become creamy and the
bananas begin to soften, about one minute. Remove the skillet from
heat and add the rum and the liqueur. Return the pan to the heat.
Tilt the pan, avert your face and and light the liquid with a long
match. Shake the skillet until the flames subside. Add the vanilla,
remove from heat and keep warm.

To serve, place a large scoop of bread pudding in the middle of each
serving plate or bowl. Place 2 slices of banana on each plate and top
with about 3 tablespoons of sauce. Spoon the whipped cream over the
bread pudding and serve immediately.  Walt MM

