Title: GIFT IDEAS
Categories: Gifts, Information
Yield: 1 Servings
Text below
Package mixes in decorative containers that can be used to prepare or
serve the item, with a pretty tag. BE SURE AND INCLUDE RECIPES FOR
PREPARATION! Some examples:

MAKE-A-MEAL!  Fill a picnic basket or pretty collander with Spaghetti
Seasoning Mix, Hot Roll Mix, Creamy Parmesan Dressing Mix, and Basic
Cookie Mix.

GINGERBREAD JOY - A pretty basket or mixing bowl with Gingerbread Mix,
containers of decorations (yogurt-coated raisins, sugar coated
candies, etc), and a few already-made gingerbread boys if you have
time. Tie gingerbread boy and girl cookie cutters on with the bow.

COCOA TIME - Hot Cocoa Mix in a large mug or set of mugs. Put the mix
in a plastic bag inside the mug(s) and tie the bag(s) shut with
pretty ribbon. One of these makes a nice small gift for co-workers,
teachers, etc.

COOKIES!!!!  Fill a cookie jar with Basic Cookie Mix ~- include as
many recipes as you can come up with and some pretty cookie cutters.

BROWNIES!  Arrange brownies on a cutting board with a container of
brownie mix.  Cover all with plastic wrap and top with a big bow.

CORNBREAD TIME:   A bag of Cornmeal Mix with a crock of honey butter,
perhaps packaged with a corn stick pan. Honey Butter: 1 cup butter,
softened, plus 2 tb Eggbeaters, 1 1/4 cups honey -- beat with an
electric mixer 10 minutes.  Should be refrigerated. Do not use a raw
egg yolk in in this as specified in the original recipe, for the sake
of food safety; Eggbeaters have been pasteurized. Tiny cornsticks
with salsa are one of the latest things to serve as an appetizer; you
could package the mix with a mini-cornstick pan (Williams Sonoma and
elsewhere) and a jar of salsa.

PANCAKE HEAVEN:  Pancake Mix plus jars of fancy fruit-flavored
syrups, on a griddle.

CAMPER'S/HIKER'S SPECIAL:  Homemade granola in a mess kit or other
useful outdoor container.

ITALIAN NIGHT SPECIAL:  A tall jar or wide-mouth bottle filled with
spaghetti, plus Spaghetti Sauce Seasoning Mix, Creamy Parmesan Salad
Dressing Mix, some biscotti and a bottle of Chianti.

TACO FEED:  A package or two of taco shells plus packages of Taco
Seasoning Mix

SEASONINGS GALORE:  A spice rack or basket filled with small bottles
of homemade seasoning mixes.  To make a wall hanging, put seasoning
mixes in foil packets or tiny zip-loc bags (available at bead shops),
and wrap each one in a circle of calico print fabric (cut with
pinking shears). Tie each packet with yarn and attach to a strip of
braided yarn and hang from a wooden ring.

"SALAD DAYS" -- A pretty salad dressing cruet with several packages of
salad dresing mixes.

And so on....it's easy to come up with more ideas if you look through
your mix recipes and think of items with go with them, either when
they're cooked or served or consumed.

Enjoy, and don't forget to make one for me!!

Inspired by _Make-A-Mix Cookery_ by Eliason, Harward and Westover,
1978, adapted by Linda Shogren (TEECH@genie.geis.com)

