Title: GLYNNE'S LEMON MERINGUE PIE
Categories: Pies, Pastries
Yield: 1 Servings
Shortcrust Pastry-----
8 oz Self Raising Flour
4 oz Margarine
Grated Rind Of 1 Orange
1    Egg -- beaten
2 oz Caster Sugar
Enough Water To Form A Ball
Dough
Filling-----
Juice And Grated Rind Of Two
Lemons
4 tb Cornflour -- (approximately)
2    Eggs
2 oz Caster Sugar
Water
* This is enough for two bases I normally make a pear custard tart
with the second base)

Rub the margarine into the flour until it's like bread crumbs add the
orange rind caster sugar and mix well. Add the beaten egg and mix
well . Add enough water ( give it a chance to soak in ) a tablespoon
at a time to make a ball. Cover with clingfilm and refrigerate for at
least 1/2 hour.

Put the juice and rind of the lemons into a measuring jug and make up
to just less than half a pint with some water. Put the cornflour into
a cup and mix with a couple of tablespoons of the lemon mixture until
it is smooth . Pour the cornflour mixture and the rest of the lemon
and water into a saucepan. Heat over a medium heat stirring
continuously until the mixture is thick ( it does turn out very thick
but don't worry ) and the cornflour is cooked out. Allow to cool
stirring occasionally .

Get the pastry from the fridge and roll out and line an 8 in flan
case/ pie dish , I'm not sure what you call it , and prick the base
with a fork. Bake the pastry blind , lined with foil & baking beans,
for 15 mins in a hot oven ( 180-200 C) so that it doesn't rise too
much but is golden.

Remove the base from the oven.

Separate the two eggs , retain the whites , and beat the yolks into
the lemon mixture until smooth . Beat the sugar into the lemon
mixture until smooth . Fill the pastry case with the lemon mixture .
Add a tablespoon of sugar to the egg whites and whisk until it forms
peaks fold in the rest of the caster sugar and pile on top of the
pie. Bake in the oven until the meringue is nicely brown . Serve hot
or cold.

I have also tried this with oranges ( made up to 1/2 pint with orange
juice rather than water) and lemon zest in the pastry.

:
Recipe By

