Title: GODDESS ENCHILADAS
Categories: Mexico, Cheese/eggs
Yield: 16 Servings
1 pk Tortillas, Corn (white best)
1 lb Cheese, cheddar
1    Onion
1    Jalapeno
1 cn Chili (jalapeno if you can)
1 cn Enchilada sauce
(The can of chili and enchilada sauce is for "lazy way" sauce, if you
want the non-lazy way sauce, ask somebody else, I always make lazy
way.)

Chop or grate your onion and jalapeno pretty fine and mix with the
cheese, which you have shredded. I usually use about a pound of
cheese for a lasagne pan full of enchiladas, and about 16-24
tortillas. Do NOT wipe your eyes at this point. Trust me. Wash your
hands if your eyes are itchy.

Now set up an assembly line. From left to right (or right to left if
you're left-handed) put tortillas, your fry pan, paper towels for
draining grease, the cheese/onion/pepper mixture and your casserole
dish. Don't ask me why you have to do it this way, but if you don't,
this is a really major pain.

Put some grease in your fry pan. You're supposed to use lard, but I
just can't do it (although that's why enchiladas taste better when
you get them out, I think), I use Mazolla or something like that. Get
the grease pretty hot but not smoking. For each enchilada do this:

1. Put one tortilla in the hot grease and let it bubble a little bit,
enough to get it really really hot, but not enough to get it crispy.
Do both sides. Pull it out and pitch it on your paper towels.

2. Quickly, before it gets hard, put a handful of the
cheese/onion/pepper mix (which is really mostly cheese) and roll it
up.

3. Put your rolled up enchilada in your casserole dish and start with
the next one.

When you run out of tortillas, cheese, or space in the casserole
dish, turn off the grease. You're done with that part. Now dump the
can of chili and the can of enchilada sauce in a pan (NOT the fry
pan) and heat it through. Dump that on top of all your enchiladas in
your casserole pan. Spread whatever cheese you have left on top.
Cover it with foil. If you don't want to eat real soon, put it in the
refrigerator, these seem to taste better if they sit for a couple of
hours, but you can bake 'em now if you want.

About 30 minutes before you want to eat (about now?) put the dish in
the oven and heat. Don't let the bottom get too hot, or you'll have
tough enchiladas. Say, about 20 minutes at 350? Something like that.

Source:  Janet Margul

