Title: GOOEY HOMEMADE CINNAMON-RAISIN ROLLS
Categories: Breads
Yield: 8 Servings
Stephen Ceideburg
MMMMM---------------------------ROLLS--------------------------------
2 1/4 c  All-purpose flour
1 pk Active dry yeast
1 c  Skim milk
1/4 c  Margarine
1/4 c  Granulated sugar
1/2 ts Salt
1    Egg
3    Egg whites
2 1/4 c  Whole-wheat flour,
-approximately
MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
1/2 c  Firmly packed dark brown
-sugar
1/4 c  Whole-wheat flour
1 tb Ground cinnamon
1/4 c  Margarine
3/4 c  Raisins
Nonstick cooking spray
To make rolls: Combine all-purpose flour and yeast in a large mixing
bowl; set aside. In a small saucepan over low heat, combine milk,
margarine, sugar and salt. Stir just until the margarine starts to
melt (120 to 130 degrees). Add to the flour and yeast mixture, mixing
well.

Add egg and egg whites to the flour mixture and beat with an electric
mixer on low speed for 30 seconds, scraping the sides of the bowl
constantly. Beat on high speed for 3 minutes. Using a spoon, stir in
as much of the whole-wheat flour as you can.

Turn the dough onto a lightly floured surface and knead in enough of
the remaining flour to make a soft dough that is smooth and elastic,
kneading for about 4 minutes. Shape into a ball and place in a bowl
which has been sprayed with a nonstick cooking spray. Turn ball over
once and allow to rise in a warm place until doubled in bulk, about 1
hour.

To make filling: While dough is rising, make the filling. Combine
brown sugar, flour and cinnamon in a medium bowl and mix well. Cut in
the margarine until crumbly, using two knives or a pastry blender;
set aside.

To form: Punch dough down and turn onto a lightly floured surface.
Cover and allow to rest 10 minutes. Roll dough out into a 12-inch
square and spread filling evenly over the dough. Top with raisins and
roll up tightly like a jelly roll, pinching to seal the seam. Cut
roll into eight 1 1/2-inch slices and arrange slices, cut side up, in
a 9-by-13-inch baking dish sprayed with nonstick cooking spray. Cover
the dish loosely with clear plastic wrap and allow to rise again
until almost double in size, about 45 minutes.

To bake: Preheat oven to 375 degrees. Before baking, remove the
plastic wrap and lightly spray the tops of the rolls with a nonstick
cooking spray. Bake for 25 to 30 minutes or until lightly brown. If
the rolls start to get too brown, cover them with foil the last 5 to
10 minutes of baking.

Remove rolls from oven and allow to cool 2 minutes. Invert onto a
wire rack and allow to cool slightly. Invert them again onto a
serving dish. Serve warm or allow to cool to room temperature and
freeze for future use.

Makes 8 rolls.

Per serving: 496 calories, 27 milligrams cholesterol, 13 grams fat,
335 milligrams sodium.

From the Oregonian's FOODday, 1/26/93.

Posted by Stephen Ceideburg

