Title: GOVERNMENT COOKIES
Categories: Cookies, Kooknet
Yield: 3 Dozen
1 c  Packed dark brown sugar
1 c  Granulated sugar
1/2 c  Softened butter
1/2 c  Shortening
2    Eggs
1    And 1/2 teaspoons vanilla
1    And 1/2 cups flour
1 ts Baking soda
12 oz Chocolate chips
1 c  Chopped walnuts or pecans
Tasks and Milestones: After procurement actions for the above required
commodities, and subsequently identified appliances and
instrumentalities, decontainerize materials. Perform succeeding
measurement tasks sequentially.

In a mixing bowl the incumbent will execute materials allocation for
the brown sugar, the granulated sugar, the butter, and the shortening
in an approved mixing container; order is precedential and
unwaiverable. Incumbent will next impact the interfacement of eggs
and vanilla, avoiding an overallocation scenario.

To avoid at all cost being on the critical path, incumbent shall next
perform materials loading of lour and soda into a bowl and aggregate.
Equalize with prior mixture and develop intense and continous liaison
among materials until minimum slack prevails. Assimilate key
chocolate and nut subprojects and execut stirring operations.

In a parallel task, an equally skilled and proficient incumbent will
take actio to prepare the heating environment for throughput by
manually setting the oven baking unit to a temperature of 350 degrees
fahrenheit. When performed in a reasonable proficient manner, this
will prevent a precedence relationship between the predecessor and
successor creating a lag.

Incumbent shall next allocate the aggregated materials in a dangling
fashion from a teaspoon implement onto an ungreased cookie sheet at
intervals sufficient to permit planned and actual separation of
throughputs, thereby creating the maximum positive slack practicable
under prevailing conditions.

Position aforesaid cooking sheet into above conditioned oven
instrument, in a bake or equivalent manufacturer recommended
situation, and monitor for an earliest finish of eight minutes and an
absolute finish of ten minutes baking aspect.  Incumbent is to
initiate sequentially the coordination of baked materials within the
cooling rack function, and subsequently to containerize when ambient
condition is attained.

Projected value:  3 dozen cookie units.

: Submitted by: Stephen Haffly
: FidoNet:  The Cooking Echo
: Posted: 28 Jul 95  12:14:31

Posted by Katherine Smith, Kook-Net: The Shadow Zone IV - Stinson
Beach, CA

