Title: CABRITO EN SANGRE (KID IN BLOOD)
Categories: Mexico, Lamb/mutton
Yield: 10 Servings
1    Baby goat, or kid (lamb can
-be used, but it is not as
-good)
3    Garlic cloves
10    Comino seeds (cumin)
Salt to taste
1/4 ts Marjoram
3    Carrots, sliced thin
1/2 c  Lard
A: Meat Ingredients

When the young goat is killed, have the butcher drain off the blood
and save it in a container. Wash the carcass, cut off the lower legs,
tail, etc., and cut the kid into conveniently sized serving pieces,
roughly about the size of a half chicken. Place the meat in a pot
with garlic and salt. Cover with cold water and boil for one hour.
Stretch a triple thickness of cheesecloth, or a tea towel, over the
top of the pot. Pour in the blood, allowing the cloth to contain the
congealed element. Draw the ends together, tie with a string, drop
into the pot liquid, and boil for 10 minutes. Remove the cloth
containing the congealed blood, and force the blood through a fine
sieve or strainer. Remove the meat from the pot, drain, and brown in
a large skillet in very hot lard. Add the mashed blood, comino seeds,
marjoram and sliced carrots. Add 1/2 cup of the water in which the
goat meat was cooked. Bring to a boil, stirring occasionally, and add
the following ingredients to complete the sauce, as directed.

B: Sauce ingredients:

1/2 cup olive oil 3/4 cup white wine 10 whole peppercorns 2
Tablespoons chili powder Tabasco to taste 1/2 teaspoon salt 10 whole
cloves 4 bay leaves 1/4 teaspoon marjoram 2 garlic cloves 1
Tablespoon sugar 2 Tablespoons vinegar 2 green chili peppers, cut in
small pieces (a small green bell pepper can be substituted) 2 onions,
finely chopped 1/2 cup Mexican (or unsweetened) chocolate, ground and
made into a thick paste with water 2 Tablespoons flour, mixed with
water to make a paste 1/4 cup pimientos, finely chopped

Place olive oil, wine, peppercorns, chili powder, Tabasco, salt,
cloves, bay leaves, marjoram, garlic, sugar, vinegar, chopped
peppers, and chopped onions in a saucepan. Simmer over a low flame
for about 5 minutes, stirring occasionally. Add the chocolate paste,
stirring constantly as the mixture boils for about 3 minutes. Add the
flour paste and chopped pimientos, stirring until the ingredients
thicken.

C: Combination and serving:

Add the sauce ingredients to the meat, blood and other contents of the
skillet (You will have to use 2 or 3 skillets for this quantity) Stir
well until all ingredients are thoroughly blended. This should take 2
or 3 minutes. Serve on individual plates garnished with watercress,
cubes of fresh pineapple, chilled seedless grapes, white radishes and
string beans. Orange sections dipped in powdered sugar make a good
addition. With this dish serve either tortillas or tostados, a green
salad wit a simple oil and vinegar dressing, and beer, preferably a
Mexican beer if you can get it.

Serves 10-12

From The Cookie Lady's Files

