Title: CAESAR SALAD~ "THE ORIGINAL RECIPE"
Categories: Dressings, Salads
Yield: 2 + servings
5    Flat anchovies
1    Head of romaine, cut into
Strips and well chilled
1 ts Dry mustard
1 ts Garlic powder
1/3 c  Olive oil
1/8 c  Approximately, cider vinegar
Worchestershire sauce
Tabasco sauce
2    Eggs, coddled
1    Juice of lemon, or to taste
Parmesan cheese
Croutons
Salt
Fresh ground pepper
-MIKE'S KITCHEN-

Many claims have been made regarding the recipes I've collected over
the years. This one I can't help but believe: The following is the
ORIGINAL Caesar Salad recipe, created on the spot from miscellaneous
ingredients by Chef Caesar, in Tijuanna, in the 1920's! If this
really isn't the original, it should be. It's that good. If the
ingredients are balanced just right, the result is a rich, smooth,
buttery-with-a-hint-of-lemon concoction that I have never yet found
an equal to. The quantities of spices, etc., listed are at best close
approximations. I estimated the measures because the salad needs to
be mixed freehand at the table with as much (understated of course)
fanfare as possible, and the various amounts are about what are used.
A little experimentation should make perfect, and would be well worth
the effort. This recipe is an instance where culinary artistry
definitely comes into play.

THE SALAD BOWL:
Should be wooden with a rough, porous surface to "grab" the
anchovy. Rather than being cut up in the salad, the anchovy is rubbed
into the bowl. Though other kinds of bowls can be used--metal,
ceramic, smooth wood--they neither pulverize the anchovy as well, nor
do they hold the aroma.

THE INGREDIENTS:
Before hand, cut the romaine crosswise into eating-sized strips.
Chill to crisp. When ready to serve the salad, place in the
anchovy-seasoned bowl. In another smaller bowl, mix the garlic powder
and dry mustard, and sprinkle over the romaine. Mix lightly to spread
the seasonings. (As an alternative, flavor olive oil with garlic and
use that in place of the the garlic powder and the regular olive oil
the recipe calls for.) Add 4 - 5 dashes (approx.) of Worchestershire
sauce and the same of Tabasco, depending on taste. Mix lightly again.
Add the oil and vinegar.
In yet another small bowl, thoroughly beat the coddled eggs
with a small wire whip, and add to the romaine. Add lemon, salt, and
fresh ground pepper, to taste. Though a little bit of vinegar is
important to the recipe, lemon is the more primary of the two
ingredients, and should be the one adjusted to taste. Add croutons
and parmesan cheese in the amounts desired, and mix thoroughly.
Serve on chilled dinner plates. Garnish with more croutons and
parmesan to taste. Some of the croutons will be soaked with the
dressing, while the ones used to garnish will add a crunchy texture.
Also, garnish with crossed strips of anchovy, if desired.

