Title: CAFE SBISA BREAD PUDDING WITH BOURBON SAUCE
Categories: Desserts, Creole
Yield: 8 Servings
2 c  Cream, heavy
1 1/4 c  Sugar
2 lg Egg
2 tb Vanilla extract
1 tb Cinnamon, ground
8 oz Cling peaches, sliced
-in heavy syrup
1    Banana; mashed
8 oz French bread, day old;
-cut into 1 inch cubes
1/2 c  Lemon peel; cut in 1"
-by 1/8 inch slices
1/4 c  Orange liqueur
3 tb ;Water
1 tb Lemon juice
MMMMM-----------------------BOURBON SAUCE----------------------------
2 lg Egg
1 c  Butter; melted
3 1/2 c  Sugar, confectioners
1 tb Bourbon
Heat oven to 350 F. Grease a 10 inch springform pan. In large bowl,
combine cream, sugar (reserving 2 tablespoons), the eggs, vanilla,
cinnamon, peaches with their syrup, and the banana. Add bread cubes
and let sit until bread has absorbed most of the liquid- 5 minutes.

Pour bread mixture into springform pan and bake on rimmed baking
sheet 45 to 50 minutes or until center springs back when lightly
pressed with fingertip. Cool in pan on wire rack 15 minutes. Serve
immediately or refrigerate until ready to serve.

In small skillet, heat lemon peel, liqueur, water, lemon juice, and
reserved 2 tablespoons sugar to boiling. Cook until mixture thickens-
about 7 minutes. Strain lemon peel; discard liquid. On small plate,
spread lemon peel in single layer to cool.

Prepare Bourbon Sauce: In top of double boiler, over simmering water,
with wire whisk, beat eggs until they just begin to thicken. Slowly
beat in melted butter until well combined. Remove mixture from heat
and beat in confectioners' sugar and bourbon until smooth.

Serve immediately or refrigerate until ready to serve. If sauce has
been refrigerated, slowly reheat until warm.

To serve, scoop some bread pudding into small serving bowls. Spoon
some warm Bourbon Sauce over bread pudding and top all with some
lemon peel.

One of New Orleans' oldest food establishments, Cafe Sbisa was
founded by the Sbisa family in 1899, in what was then the thriving
port and financial district of the old French city. In 1977, the
business was purchased by two local restauranteurs who completely
restored the historic building and reopened the cafe two years later.
The menu still reflects many of the great traditions of "la cuisine
Creole", but has been expanded to include the finest products from
across the United States.

Source: Country Living magazine, July 1990

