Title: CALAMARI FARCITI POSITANO
Categories: Seafood, Italian
Yield: 4 Servings
2 tb Olive oil
3 sl Pancetta; coarsely
-chopped
1 tb Onions; chopped
1/2 ts Garlic
1/3 c  Bell peppers; chopped
1/4 ts Red pepper; crushed
10 lg Mushrooms; coarsely
-chopped
4    Parsley spring; chopped
2    Celery rib, leaves only
-chopped
16    Calamari (bodies about
-3" long)
1/4 c  White wine, dry
1 c  Rice, cooked
1/2 ts Salt
1 pn White pepper
1/4 c  Bread crumbs
1/4 c  Parmesan; grated
1    Egg
~--------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------------
1/4 c  Olive oil
1/2 ts Garlic, chopped
1 pn Red pepper; crushed
1 c  Italian plum tomatoes;
-chopped (reserve juice)
:
1 c  Juice from tomatoes
1 c  Fish stock
3    Basil, fresh; chopped
3    Parsley sprig, fresh
Salt and pepper to taste
:

Clean and skin the calamari.  In a skillet, heat the olive oil and
pancetta over medium heat. Saut E9 the onions, garlic, red and green
bell peppers, and crushed red pepper until onions are lightly
browned. (Pancetta is Italian bacon, and can be obtained at any good
Italian supermarket). Stir in the mushrooms and cook until mushrooms
become moist. Add parsely, celery leaves and chopped squid tentacles
and cook for a minute while stirring lightly. Add wine and bring to a
boil. Stir in the rice thoroughly. Remove from heat and allow to
cool. When mixture is lukewarm, stir in bread crumbs, cheese, and
egg, plus salt and pepper to taste.

Load the mixture into a pastry bag with a large tip.  Squeeze the
stuffing into the bodies of the calamari. After stuffing all the
calamari, fold the open ends shut and secure with toothpicks.

PREHEAT OVEN TO 400 DEGREES F.  To make the sauce, heat the olive oil
in a skillet over medium heat.  Saute the garlic and crushed red
pepper for 30 seconds, then add tomatoes, juice, and fish stock.
Bring to a boil and reduce by about one-third.  Add basil and salt
and pepper to taste. Put the stuffed calamari into the sauce.  Return
the sauce to a boil, then put the skillet into a 400-degree oven for
10 minutes. Remove the calamari from the sauce and keep warm.

Put the sauce over a medium heat and reduce for 10 minutes, until
appropriately thick.  Add chopped parsley and stuffed calamari.  Heat
through, and serve with lots of sauce.

Suggested wine: Lacrima Christi Rosato

