Title: CALIFORNIA ROLL (HAND-WRAPPED SUSHI)
Categories: Japanese, Fish
Yield: 32 Rolls
2 c  Short grain rice
2 oz Fresh ginger root
1 tb Sugar
4 tb Rice vinegar
1/4 ts Salt
1 tb Powdered Wasabi
(Japanese green Horseradish)
1 ea Lemon or lime
1 ea 3" piece of konbu-dried kelp
2 c  Water
2 tb Sake or dry white wine
3 tb Sugar
5 tb Rice vinegar
1 1/2 ts Salt
3 ea Eggs
2 ts Sugar
1/2 ts Mirin (Sweet rice wine)
1 ds Salt
1 1/2 ts Vegetable oil
8 md Sized shrimp
1 sm Japanese cucumber or English
4 oz Fresh raw tuna
4 oz Fresh raw sea bream filet
4 oz Smoked salmon
2 oz Salmon roe
8 ea Sheets toasted nori
(dried laver or seaweed)
2 tb Kikoman soy sauce
1. Rinse rice until water is almost clear; drain in colander 1 hour.

2.Meanwhile, peel ginger and cut into paper-thin slicesSoak in boiling
water for few seconds, drain. Combine 1 tb sugar, 4 tb vinegar and
1/4 ts salt; add ginger and let stand 30 minutes. Blend wasabi with 1
ts water in a small bowl; turn upside down to enhance flavor. Cut
lemon or lime in wedges; set aside.

3. Wipe konbu with a damp cloth, being careful not to wipe off white
substance; cut crosswise into 4 pieces. Combine rice, 2 cups
water,konbu and sake in rice cooker pot; cook according to
manufacturer's directions. Remove kombu just before water boils. (If
rice cooker is not available, combine above four ingredients in a
large stainless or iron saucepan with tight fitting lid. Cover pan;
bring to boil over high heat. Just before water boils, remove konbu.
Reduce heat to low; simmer 15 minutes. Remove from heat; let stand 10
minutes.) Mix rice with large wooden spoon or spatula using folding
motion to seperate kernels. Insert dry towel under lid to absorb
moisture; let stand 10 minutes. Meanwhile, combine 3 tbsp. sugar, 5
tbsp. vinegar and 1-1/2 tsp salt. Turn rice out into large non-metal
bowl, separating kernels. Pour vinegar mixture evenly over rice;
gently but thoroughly fold in to combine. Cover bowl with damp towel
until ready to use.

4. Mix eggs lightly with 2 tsp. sugar, mirin and dash of salt. Heat
oil in skillet; pour in egg mixture to evenly cover the bottom of
pan. Cool until set. Turn out onto cutting surface; cool; Cut into
strips 3 inches long and 1/2 inch wide.

5. Peel and devein shrimp, leaving tail on. Thread toothpick or
skewer from head to tail of each shrimp to prevent curling. Cook 1 to
2 minutes in small amount of boiling water mixed with a dash of salt
and sake. Drain. When almost cool remove skewers.

6. Cut cucumber, tuna, sea bream, and salmon into strips simular to
egg strips.

7. Cut toasted nori into quarters. (To toast nori, hold rougher side
2 or 3 inches from medium heat over range element until crispy,
glossy and lighter in color.)

8. Arrange seafood, eggs, cucumber, ginger, wasabi and lemon wedges on
large
platter, Turn rice out into serving bowl with 1 or
2    small wooden spoons
or spatulas.  Place Nori in basket. Serve with soy sauce and
explain
below.

Put about 1 tbsp. of sushi rice on sheet of nori, add ingredients and
condiments of choice and wrap in nori. Hold wrapped sushi in hand and
dip into soy sauce and eat.

Recipe by Kikoman Soy Sauce Typos by Val-anne

