Title: CALLOS A LA MADRILENA
Categories: Spanish, Snacks
Yield: 4 Servings
1 lb "honeycomb" tripe
1/2 c  Dry white wine
1 sm Tomato, chopped
1    Pig's foot or veal knuckle,
-split in half
2    Sprigs parsley
10    Peppercorns, lightly crushed
2    Cloves, crushed
1 ds Of nutmeg
2    Bay leaves
1/2 ts Dried thyme, or equivalent
-amount of fresh
Salt
1 sm Onion, coarsely chopped
6    Cloves garlic, peeled
2 tb Olive oil
1 sm Onion, finely chopped
1/4 lb Chorizo (or Italian
-sausage), in 1/4-inch
-slices
1/4 c  Diced cured (unsmoked) ham
1 tb Flour
1 tb Sweet red (Spanish) paprika
1/2    Dried red chili pepper,
-crumbled (remove seeds if
-you wish)
(Tripe, Madrid Style)

Tripe is especially favored in Spain and, in fact, most countries
where there is still a strong Spanish influence. This isn't
surprising, because it makes a number of very different, but
extremely tasty dishes. It requires long cooking times (less here
because it is almost always cleaned and partially precooked when you
buy it), but it keeps very well for days, in the refrigerator, and is
even better when reheated than when first prepared.  Since it's
difficult to buy half a pig's foot or half a veal knuckle, this
recipe makes enough for 4 - 6 servings as a main course. Make a full
recipe a day or two ahead of time, serve as many tapas as needed,
then enjoy the rest as a main course or snacks. This can be reheated
very nicely in the microwave, by the way.

To serve 4 - 6 as a main course, or make 12 - 18 tapas:

Rinse the tripe well, then put it into a rather large kettle and add
cold water to cover.  Bring to a boil, then drain immediately. Cut
the tripe into 1 1/2-inch squares and return it to the empty kettle.
Add 3 cups cold water and the wine, tomato, pig's foot or veal
knuckle, parsley, peppercorns, cloves, nutmeg, bay leaves, thyme,
salt to taste, coarsely chopped onion and the garlic. Cover and
simmer over low heat for 4 to 5 hours, until the tripe is almost
tender.

Heat the oil in a skillet and saute the finely chopped onion until it
is wilted.  Add the chorizo and ham and cook for 5 minutes. Stir in
the flour and paprika and cook 1 minute more. Add 1/2 cup of the
liquid from the tripe kettle, a little at a time, and cook-stir until
the mixture thickens.

Add this and the chile to the tripe.  Cover and cook 1 ~ 2 hours more.
Remove the cover and continue cooking until the tripe is very tender.

Remove the pig's foot or veal knuckle from the tripe. Remove and
discard all skin, bone and fat.  Cut the meat into pieces and stir
into the tripe.

Serve in warmed bowls or shallow individual tapa-size dishes. Serve
with good crusty bread for sopping up the sauce.

