Title: CANNOLI ALLA SICILIANA
Categories: Desserts, Italian, Cheese
Yield: 12 Servings
Shells:
2 c  All-purpose flour
2 tb Shortening
1 ts Sugar
1/4 ts Salt
3/4 c  Wine, Marsala, Burgundy or
-Chablis
Vegetable Oil
Filling:
3 c  Ricotta
1/2 c  Confectioners sugar
1/4 c  Cinnamon
1/2    Square unsweetened
Chocolate grated OR
1/2 tb Cocoa (both optional)
1/2 ts Vanilla
3 tb Citron peel, chopped
3 tb Orange peel, candied,chopped
6    Glace cherries, cut up
To make cannoli shells it is necessary to have 3 or 4 metal tubes,
preferably made from very light tin, about 7-inches long and 1 1/8
inches in diameter.  The edges should not be soldered. (Old aluminum
chairs cut up work great)

SHELLS: Combine flour, shortening, sugar and salt, and wetting
gradually with wine, knead together with fingers until rather hard
dough or paste is formed. Form into ball, cover with cloth and let
stand about 1 hour. Cut dough in half and roll half of dough into a
thin sheet about 1/4 inch thick.  Cut into 4 inch squares. Place a
metal tube diagonally across each square from one point to another,
wrapping dough around tube by overlapping the two points and sealing
overlapping points with a little egg white. Meanwhile heat vegetable
oil in large deep pan for deep frying. Drop one or two tubes at a
time into hot oil. Fry gently until dough is a golden brown color.
Remove from pan, let cool and gently remove shell from metal tube.
Set shells aside to cool.   Repeat procedure until all shells are
made.

FILLING: Mix ricotta thoroughly with sifted dry ingredients. Add
vanilla and fruit peel.  Mix and blend well. (A little grated
pistachio may be added if desired). Chillin refrigerator before
filling shells. Fill cold cannoli shells; smooth filling evenly at
each end of shell. Decorate each end with a piece of glace cherry and
sprinkle shells with confectioners sugar. Refrigerate until ready to
serve.

These are best if they are filled just before you company arrives.

From: Polly-O Cooking with Cheese Recipe Book p.reynolds, GEnie

