Title: CARAMELIZED APPLE GALETTE - MARTHA STEWART
Categories: Dessert, Fruit, Martha stew
1    Recipe Quick Puff Pastry
-(Recipe Follows)
Yield: 4 Servings
:
1    Northern Spy, Or
Other Firm Baking Apple
:
1/4 c  Sugar
2 TB Unsalted Butter
1 TB Calvados -- french apple
brandy
:

On a lightly floured work surface, roll out an eighth of quick puff
pastry dough recipe to about 1/8 inch thickness. Using a sharp
parking knife, cut dough into a circle about 7 1/2 inches in
diameter. Transfer to a parchment lined baking sheet, and place in
refrigerator to chill about 15 minutes. Heat oven to 425F. Place the
chilled pastry dough in a heavy cast iron skillet that measure 6 1/2
inches in diameter at the bottom. Peel, core and slice the apple in
half lengthwise. Using a mandoline or very sharp knife, slice apple
halves, widthwise into twenty five 1/8 inch slices. Arrange the
slices in a neat fanned pattern, overlapping he apples, keeping them
1/2 inch in from the edge of the pastry dough, fill in the center
with smaller or broken apple slices as you create the fanned out
circle. Sprinkle two tablespoons sugar over the apples, and dot with
1 tablespoon butter, cut into very small pieces. Place skillet in the
oven, and bake until the pstry has puffed up along the edges of te
pan and is golden brown, about 30 minutes. Remove the skillet from
the oven. Using a spatula remove the tart from the skillet, and
transfer to a plate, set aside. Add the remaining tablespoon butter
to the skillet, and place over medium heat. Add the remaining 2
tablespoons sugar, and cook until the sugar dissolves and forms a
light caramel, about 5 minutes. Measure Calvados into a glass then
pour into the caramel, cook out the alcohol, about 2 to 3 minutes.
Return the tart to the skillet, apple side down and cook 4 to 5
minutes, until the caramel bubbles up over the tart, and starts to
look a litle thick. Remove the skillet from theheat, and carefully
invert the tart onto a plate large enough to catch the hot caramel as
it drips out of the skillet.

Quick Puff Pastry Makes 2 lbs
1 3/4    cup all purpose flour 2 cups cake flour 1 teaspoon salt 2
cups (4 sticks) unsalted butter, very cold, cut into small pieces 1
cup to 1 1/4 cups ice water 2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice

Sift together the all purpose flour, cake flour and salt into a large
chilled bowl. Cut in the pieces of butter, using a pastry knife until
the butter is in very small lumps, about 1/2 inch in diameter.
Combine the ice water and lemon juice, and stir into the flour
mixture, a little at a time pressing the dough together with your
hands until it comes together. Turn the dough out onto a well floured
work surface and roll it into a 1/2 inch thick rough rectangle,
approximately 12 by 18 inches. The dough will be very crumbly. Fold
bottomof the rectangle toward the center, then the top of the
rectangle toward the center, overlapping the bottom third, like a
letter, and give the dough a quarter turn to the right. Roll the
dough into a large rectangle, 1/2 inch thick and fold into thirds
again. This completes the first double turn. Remove any excess flour
with a wide dry brush.  Repeat rolling, folding, and turning process
two more times to execute another double turn, refrigerating the
dough for a few minutes if the butter becomes too warm. Wrap the
dough in plastic, and put in refrigerator to chill for 1 hour. Remove
chilled dough from the refrigerator.  Repeat rolling, folding, and
turning process again to execture one more double turn. There will be
six turns in all. The dough needsto be rolled out to 1/2 inch thick
rectangle each time.With each turn, the dough will become smoother
and easier to handle. Store the dough, wrapped well in plastic in the
refrigerator for up to 2 days or in the freezer for 3 months.

: Martha Stewart Oct. 1996
Recipe By

Date: 09/26/96

