Title: Boston Cream Pie
Categories: Pies, Desserts
Yield: 14 servings
1/4 c  Butter, softened
3 ea Large eggs
1 ts Vanilla
2 ts Baking powder
2/3 c  Sugar
1/4 ts Salt
4 ea Large egg yolks,lightly beat
3 ea 1 oz. chocolate squares
1/3 c  Confectioners' sugar
1 x  -----------cake l-----------
1 c  Sugar
2/3 c  Milk
1 3/4 c  All-purpose flour
1 x  -------vanilla egg c--------
1/3 c  Cornstarch
2 1/2 c  Milk
1 x  --------chocolate g---------
1 tb Butter
1/4 c  Milk
Prepare cake layers: Heat oven to 350 degrees.Grease and flour two 9" round
cake pans.In large bowl with electric mixer at medium speed, beat 1/4 cup
butter,1 cup sugar,eggs,2/3 cup milk,1 tsp. vanilla and baking powder about
4 minutes until thoroughly blended and smooth. Spoon batter into prepared
pans;bake 30 minutes until wooden pick inserted in center of each layer
comes out clean.Remove layers to wire racks to cool completely. Prepare egg
custard: In 2 qt. saucepan,stir 2/3 cup sugar,cornstarch and salt until
thoroughly mixed;slowly stir in 2 1/2 cups milk until smooth.Bring to boil
over medium heat,stirring constantly;cook 1 minute until mixture boils
rapidly and thickens.Remove from heat; very slowly pour lightly beaten egg
yolks into hot mixture,stirring rapidly and constantly to blend and keep
smooth.Return mixture to low heat;cook 1 minute longer.Do not allow to
boil.Remove from heat;stir in 1 tbsp. vanilla.Cool completely,stirring
frequently. Prepare chocolate glaze: In small heavy saucepan over very low
heat, melt chocolate and 1 tbsp. butter,stirring frequently until blended
and smooth.Remove from heat;stir in confectioners sugar and 1/4 cup milk
until blended and smooth.Keep warm,covered. To assemble: Using sharp
serrated knife,carefully cut cooled layers in half horizontally.Place one
layer,cut side up,on serving platter; spread with 1/3 cooled custard.Repeat
with remaining cake layers and custard,ending with cake layer,cut side
down.Spoon warm glaze over top of cake,letting mixture drip down
sides.Makes 12 to 16 servings.

