Title: A Jellie of Fyshe
Categories: Fish, Seafood, Appetizers, Medieval
Yield: 6 servings
-finely chopped
1/3 ts Sea salt
1/4 ts White pepper
2 c  White wine
2 c  Water
3/4 oz Gelatin
8 oz Hake, cod, haddock, or other
-well-flavoured white fish
3    Scallops
3 oz Prawns (shrimp)
2    Onions, roughly sliced
1 tb White wine vinegar
1 oz Ginger root, peeled and
Elaborate and highly decorative jellies were "the delight of the
artistic medieval cook, often enhanced with edible gold and silver."

DIRECTIONS:

Put the white fish in a pan with the onions, vinegar, ginger root,
spices, wine and water.  Bring it gently to the boil and simmer for
10 minutes. Add the scallops and prawns and cook for a further 3
minutes.  Remove the fish; bone and skin the white fish and set it
all aside.  Strain the cooking juices and set aside to cool for
several hours by which time a lot of the sediment will have settled
in the bottom of the bowl.  Carefully pour off the juices, leaving
the sediment, and then strain several times through a clean teacloth.
You should have approximately 3 cups of liquid left.  Melt 3/4 oz of
gelatin in a little of the liquid, cool it to room temperature, then
mix it into the rest of the juices.

Pour a thin layer (1/2 inch) of the juice into the bottom of a 2 pint
(5 cup) souffle dish or fish mold and put it in the fridge to set.
Flake the white fish into smallish flakes; remove the coral from the
scallops and cut the white flesh into three or four pieces.  Once the
jelly is firm, arrange the most decorataive of the fish in the bottom
of the dish--some scallop coral in the middle, prawns around the
outsides, flakes of white fish in between or however you feel
inspired.  Spoon a little more of the juice and return it to the
fridge to set.  Continue to layer the fish in the mould, setting each
layer with a covering of juice until you have used up all the fish
and juices.  Leave the jelly to set for at least 4 hours in the
fridge.  Unmold and decorate with fresh herbs; serve as a starter.

Posted by Sam Lefkowitz, 4/6/95

Converted to Meal-Master format by Arthur Cloninger.

