Title: About Freezing Fruits and Berries
Categories: Fruit, Information
Yield: 1 text file  From the Joy of Cooking: Choose firm, sound, uniformly sun ripened
fruit. [Pears and bananas do not freeze well]. It is not essential to
use sugar but it is often preferable. To sugar fruit, place it in a
shallow tray. Just before you pack, sift the sugar over it til evenly
coated. Don't let the mixture stand or the sugar will draw the
fruits' juices. When packing, allow some room for expansion on
freezing.

Table 1

No sugar is required for these fruits.

Apples and plums should be immersed briefly in a solution of 3 Tbl
lemon juice or 1/4 tsp Ascorbic acid to 1 qt water and drained to
prevent browning. Blueberries should be steam blanched 30 sec to a
min to keep skins tender.

Blueberries
Gooseberries
Plums Prunes Rhubarb
Apples
Currants
Melons Pineapple
Raspberries

Table II

Use 1 LB sugar for the following:

5 lb blackberries
5 lb apples*
blueberries* 3 lb sour cherries*    3 lb currants
3 lb sliced
3 lb pineapple 3 lb plums*
4 lb raspberries 4 lb strawberries, whole
4 lb dewberries 3 lb gooseberries
peaches*
rhubarb, diced
or crushed

*These fruits require a 1/2 tsp Ascorbic acid crystals per 5 lb sugar
to prevent oxidizing and browning. [Ascorbic acid is Vitamin C].

About Syrup

These sirups may be made in advance and chilled before combining with
the fruit. For light syrup use 1 3/4 c sugar to 1 pint water. You can
use up to 1/3 corn syrup for sugar. Bring to a boil to ensure
complete dissolving and then chill. Allow at least 1/3 c syrup to
each 1 1/2 c fruit making sure that it is covered. Add lemon juice or
Ascorbic acid to the syrup for those fruits that need them as per the
table above.

Freezing Berries

Fragile berries and cherries should be washed in ice water to firm
them. And any commercial or suspect fruit should be washed to clean
them. Drain well on paper towelling. After culling, hulling and
stemming they are ready for freezing with or without sugar. Blanch
blueberries to soften skins. If whole strawberries are packaged
without sugar, prick them with a fork to release the air. Unsweetened
raspberries may be frozen in a single layer on trays and packaged
after freezing to keep them whole and uncrushed. This way they will
weep less if thawed and used whole as garnishes.

Freezing Large Fruits

Sort them carefully, remove pits, cores and stems and pare where nec-
essary. Treat fruits that tend to discolor, such as apple, peaches and
apricots with the following: lemon juice or Ascorbic acid as above or
use a syrup with added ascorbic acid as above. If these fruits are
packed in combination with citrus fruits this step may be skipped.

Pears do not freeze well.

Freezing Purees

Some fruits, such as plums, prunes, avocados, papayas, mangoes,
persimmons and melons keep better as uncooked purees. Bananas should
not be frozen. Either freeze unsweetened or with 1 c sugar per 1 lb
fruit.

Freezing Juices

Apple, raspberry, plum, cherry and grape juice freeze well as do
ciders. For each gallon add 1/2 tsp Ascorbic acid or 2 tsp lemon
juice. Cherries, plums and grapes have better flavor if cooked first
as there is flavor to extract from the skins. Raspberries are best
frozen whole with sugar and the juice extracted after they are
thawed.Fruit fir jelly may be frozen unsugared and the juice
extracted later. Submitted By JIM WELLER   On   04-09-95

