Title: Algerian Eggplant Jam San Fran Chronicle 6/29/94
Categories: Appetizers, Dips/spread, Vegetables, Middle east, African
Yield: 6 servings
Pepper; freshly ground
3    -to
4 tb Lemon juice, fresh
1 tb Parsley; chopped
3    Lemon wedges
- or
3    Tomato wedges
3 md Eggplants (3 lb total)
Salt
7 tb Oil, olive
3    Garlic cloves; minced
2 ts Paprika, sweet
1 1/2 ts Pepper, Cayenne
- or
1/8 ts Harissa
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees. Cut the stems off the eggplants.
Using a vegetable peeler or a sharp knife, peel the skin in 1/2 inch
wide strips vertically down each eggplant so you get a striped
effect. Slice each eggplant horizontally  into 1/2 inch slices. Place
in a colander and salt each slice. Let stand 30 minutes, then rinse
well and pat dry with paper towels.

Brush a baking sheet with 3 tablespoons of the oil. Lightly brush the
eggplant slices with 2 tablespoons oil and place in a single layer on
the baking sheet. Bake for 20 to 30 minutes, turning occasionally,
until the slices are light golden brown on both sides.

Transfer the eggplant to a bowl and, using a fork or potato masher,
mash with the garlic, paprika, cumin, water and cayenne. Season to
taste with salt and pepper.

Heat the remaining 2 tablespoons of oil in a large skillet. Add the
mashed eggplant and fry very slowly, turned occasionally, for about
20 minutes, or until the moisture evaporates. Stir in the lemon juice
and cook 1 minute longer. Taste, and season with salt and pepper, if
needed.

Place the eggplant on a platter and garnish with parsley and lemon or
tomato wedges. Serve warm or at room temperature. This eggplant
spread has a jamlike consistency. It is made all over North Africa,
but this version, with garlic, cumin and lemon juice is one of the
most flavorful. Serve it with warm country-style bread or pita.

195 calories | Protein 2 gram Carbohydrate
Per serving
13 grams | Fat 16 grams Saturated Fat 2 grams | Cholesterol 0
milligrams Fiber 5  gram | Sodium 602 milligrams San Francisco
Chronicle 6/29/94 "Mediterranean Preludes" by Joanne Weir,typed by
Dorothy Hair 7/4/94 Submitted By JOELL ABBOTT   On   03-22-95

