Title: Asian Greens
Categories: Information, Asian, Vegetables
Yield: 1 info  The variety of Asian greens available in the U.S. seems to increase
almost daily. and each kind is liable to appear under numerous
aliases. Here are some of the more common varieties:

Bok Choy: Also known as pak choi or spoon cabbage. In most common
types white-stemmed, green-stemmed, and "soup spoon"  both leaves and
stems are edible. Likewise, the ever-more-common baby bok choy. One
of the most delicately flavored Asian greens, bok choy is good for
stir-frying (in oil with garlic and soy sauce), braising, or
simmering in soups.

Chinese Cabbage: The two Chinese cabbages most commonly available
here: napa (which has nothing to do with the California valley) is
barrel-shaped, and michichili, which is more elongated. Both are mild
and crunchy. Use them, thinly sliced and quickly cooked, as a bed for
whole steamed fish or barbecued duck; simmer them in soup; or mix
with meat as a filling for Chinese dumplings.

Choy Sum: Also known as yu choy; one type is called Chinese oil
vegetable. The slightly bitter stems are more tender than the leaves,
although all parts of the vegetable, even the tiny yellow flowers,
are edible. Thick stems should be trimmed, peeled, then steamed or
poached. Stir-fried chou cum stands up well to the assertive flavors
of garlic, rice wine, and chiles.

Chrysanthemum Greens: Often called garland chrysanthemums or crown
daisies. Botanically different from other chrysanthemums. Leaves are
flat or serrated. Tangy flavor. Becomes bitter if overcooked. Young
leaves are quickly blanched to darken them, then coated with oil and
added to salads. The Japanese use the leaves in tempura. The Chinese
garnish soup with the petals.

Mizuna: Both the Japanese name, mizuna, and the Mandarin Chinese
name, shui cai, mean "water vegetable" (the stalks are very juicy).
Used frequently in Japanese cooking. The dark green, feathery leaves
are peppery. Baby leaves are often used in field green mixtures;
mature ones are excellent tossed with sauted chicken or roasted root
vegetables.

Green Mustard: Also called Chinese mustard greens, this is among the
most pungent of Asian greens. There are numerous sub-varieties, with
leaves taking various shapes. Steamed for five minutes or so and
dressed with a little oil, it makes a perfect side dish. Its flavor
and texture work well with oyster sauce and with the richness of
pork. It is also good pickled.

Red Mustard: More purple than red in color, this is one of the newer
mustard varieties. Its powerful flavor, reminiscent of wasabi, fades
if it's overcooked. Used more in Japanese and Korean cooking than in
the Chinese kitchen. In the U.S., leaves can be served raw as a
decorative, edible accompaniment to sushi, or added to soups just
before serving (to preserve the leaf's character).

Pea Shoots: Correctly referred to as pea pod leaves, these are the
tendrils and top few leaves of the snow pea plant. An important
ingredient in Shanghai and Vietnamese cooking. Pinch leaves from
stems, and use the tenderest tips. The delicate pea flavor comes
through when they're used raw in salads, steamed or stir-fried for a
minute with a little ginger.

Tatsoi: A ground-hugging member of the bok choy family, also known as
rosette bok choy for its conformation. The round, thick, very dark
green leaves grow in tight, concentric circles like rose petals. With
its slightly bitter flavor, tatsoi is excellent raw (when young) in
salads, and adds spark to Asian-style soups when tossed in at the
last minute.

Saveur Magazine
Mar/Apr 1995
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   03-22-95

