Title: Bagel Oasis Very Good Bagel
Categories: Breads
Yield: 12 servings
Toppings
Sesame Seeds -- optional
Poppy Seeds -- optional
Kosher Salt -- optional
Crushed Garlic -- optional
Minced Onions -- optional
1 pk Active Dry Yeast
3 ts Dark Brown Sugar
1 1/2 c  Warm Water (105 To 110 F)
1 tb Salt
4 c  All-Purpose Flour
1/2 c  Cornmeal -- for dusting
1. Proof the yeast by placing it in a large bowl and add 1 1/2 tsp of
the brown sugar and the warm water. Stir well and set aside until the
mixture bubbles and a slight foam forms on top, about 5 mins.

2. Add the remaining 1 1/2 tsp sugar and the salt; stir well.
Gradually add the flour, 1 cup at a time. Using your hands, mix the
dough until the flour is well incorporated. Knead the dough in the
bowl until smooth, about 7 mins. The dough should retain a sheen and
not appear too floury. Cover the bowl and set aside to rest in a warm
place for 40 mins.

3. Lightly dust half of a large cutting board with flour and half with
cornmeal. Turn out the dough onto the floured side of the board. With
a sharp knife, cut a thick 2-inch strip from the dough. On the
cornmeal-dusted side, roll out the strip with palms of your hands
until it looks like a rope as thick as 2 fingers. Grip the right end
of the strip with your right hand and loosely hold the middle of the
coil with your left hand, stretching the dough slightly as you work.
Break off the bagel with your left hand. Use the thumb of your right
hand to pinch the bagel together. If it fails to hold together,
squeeze the seal in your hand for a few secs, then reshape the bagel,
stretching and squeezing it with your hands. Continue making the rest
of the bagels.

4. Lightly dust a baking sheet with cornmeal. Place each bagel on the
prepared baking sheet and set aside in a warm place, uncovered for 30
mins.

5. Preheat oven to 425 F. Heavily dust another baking sheet with
cornmeal.

6. Fill a large, wide pot 2/3 full of water and bring to a boil.
Using a wide, slotted spoon, drop the bagels in batches into the
water; they must not touch. Boil on one side for 2 mins. Turn bagels
and boil on 2nd side for 1 1/2 mins. They should firm and puff up.
Carefully remove from water and drain for 1 min on a rack.

7. Place the bagels on the 2nd prepared baking sheet and sprinkle with
desired topping(s). Immediately place the sheet in the oven and bake
for 12 mins. Turn the bagels and bake until deep golden brown all
over, about 7 mins. Remove from the baking sheets to cool on paper
towels.

MAKES 10 to 12.

: New York Cookbook by Molly O'Neill ISBN 0-89480-698-X
Recipe By

Date: 04-02-95 (159) Fido:
From: Dan Klepach
Cooking

