Title: Baghala Polo (Steamed Rice with Lamb, Dill and Lima Beans
Categories: Middle east, Meats, Rice
Yield: 8 servings
4 c  Dill, fresh; finely cut
1 lb Baby lima beans, shelled; or
;2 ten oz. packages of froz.
;baby lima beans thoroughly
;defrosted
8 tb Butter; melted
1/4 ts Saffron threads; pulverized
;with a mortar and pestle or
;with the back of a spoon,
;and dissolved in 1 tbsp.
;warm water
2 tb Butter
1 md Onion; peeled and cut into
;1/4 inch thick slices
3 lb Boneless lamb shoulder, lean
;trimmed of excess fat and
;cut into 2 inch cubes
3 c  Water
1 tb Salt
2 c  Iranian rice, imported; or
;other uncooked long grain
;white rice, soaked and
;drained
In a heavy 3 to 4 quart casserole, with a tightly fitting lid, melt
the 2 tablespoons of butter over moderate heat.  When the foam begins
to subside, add the onions and, stirring frequently, cook for about
10 minutes, or until the slices are richly browned.  With a slotted
spoon, transfer them to a plate.
A half dozen pieces or so at a time, brown the lamb cubes in the fat
remaining in the casserole, turning them with tongs or a spoon and
regulating the heat so that they color deeply and evenly without
burning. As they brown, transfer the cubes of lamb to the plate with
the onions.
Pour the 3 cups of water into the casserole and bring to a boil
over high heat, meanwhile scraping in the brown particles clinging to
the bottom and sides of the pan.  Return the lamb and onion to the
casserole, add the salt, and reduce the heat to low.  Cover tightly
and simmer for about 1 hour and 15 minutes, or until the lamb is
tender and shows no resistance when pierced with the point of a
small, sharp knife. Transfer the lamb, onions and all the cooking
liquid to a large bowl and set the casserole aside.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees.  Bring 6 cups of water to a boil
in a 5 to 6 quart saucepan.  Pour in the rice in a slow, thin stream
so the water does not stop boiling.  Stir once or twice, boil briskly
for 5 minutes, then remove the pan from the heat, stir in the dill
and lima beans and drain in a fine sieve.
Ladle about half of the rice mixture into the casserole and moisten
it with « cup of the lamb cooking liquid.  Then with a spatula or
spoon spread the rice mixture to the edges of the pan.  With a
slotted spoon return the lamb and onions to the casserole and smooth
them over the rice.
Then spread the remaining rice mixture on top.  Combine 2
tablespoons of the melted butter with 6 tablespoons of the lamb broth
and pour it over the rice.  Bring the casserole to a boil over high
heat. Cover tightly and bake in the middle of the oven for 30 to 40
minutes, or until the beans are tender and the rice has absorbed all
the liquid in the casserole.
To serve, spoon about a cup of the rice mixture into a small bowl,
add the dissolved saffron and stir until the rice is bright yellow.
Spread about half the remaining rice on a heated platter and arrange
the lamb over it.  Cover the lamb with the rest of the plain rice
mixture and garnish it with the saffron rice.  Pour the remaining 6
tablespoons of melted butter over the top.

93 of 116

Source: Time Life Series: Middle Eastern Cooking  "circa  69"

MMed by: earl.cravens@salata.com
Submitted By EARL CRAVENS   On   03-24-95

