Title: Best Vegetable Pate
Categories: Vegetables, Appetizers
Yield: 12 servings
Trimmed
2    Carrots, peeled and cut into
Thin julienne
2 sm Yellow summer squash, cut
Lengthwise into quarters
2    Sweet red peppers
1/2 oz Dried morels
12    UP TO ...
14    Grape leaves (Packed in
Water), rinsed & patted dry
Tomato Vinaigrette (see
Recipe)
1 lb Boneless, skinless chicken
Breasts, cut into chunks
1    Lemon, zest of, finely
Grated
1 pn Cayenne
1 pn Ground nutmeg
Salt and freshly ground
Black pepper to taste
2    Egg whites
2 c  Heavy cream
1/2 c  Chopped fresh basil
8 oz Thin asparagus spears, ends
One day before serving, place the chicken breasts, lemon zest,
cayenne, nutmeg, and salt and pepper to taste in a food processor
fitted with a steel blade; process to a puree.  Add the egg whites
and process 10 seconds.  Remove to a bowl and place in a larger bowl
of crushed ice. Chill, stirring occasionally, for 1 hour.  Remove
from the ice and stir in the cream, 1 T at a time.  Process a third
of the mousseline and all of the basil in the food processor until
blended. Refrigerate both mousselines separately.  Blanch the
asparagus, carrots, and summer squash separately in boiling water
until tender but still crisp. Drain and refresh under cold running
water. Pat dry and refrigerate covered until cold. Preheat the
broiler.  Roast the peppers under the broiler until the skins are
blistered and black all over.  Let stand in a covered bowl for 10
minutes. Remove the blackened skins, the cores, and seeds from the
peppers; cut into thin strips.  Soak the morels in hot water to cover
for 30 minutes. Drain, pat dry, and cut lengthwise in half.  Preheat
oven to 300 degrees. To assemble pate, line the bottom and sides of
an oiled 12 x 4" terrine with a single layer of the grape leaves.
Spread a thin layer of the plain mousseline in the bottom.  Top with
an even layer of the morels. Spread a thin layer of the basil
mousseline over the morels and top with the summersquash. Spread
another layer of the plain mousseline and add the asparagus in an
even layer.  Top with the remaining basil mousseline.  Make the last
vegetable layer with the carrot and red pepper strips.  Spread with
the last of the plain mousseline.  Fold the edges of the grape leaves
over the top and fill in the gaps on top with the remaining grape
leaves. Cover the terrine with buttered aluminum foil and place in a
larger baking pan. Pour hot water into the pan to come halfway up the
side of the terrine. Bake until firm, 1 hour to 1 hour 15 minutes.
Cool to room temperature and refrigerate overnight.  Just before
serving, make the tomato vinaigrette. Cut the pate into thin slices
and serve cold on a pool of vinaigrette. From The Silver Palate Good
Times Cookbook by Julee Russo & Sheila Lukins. Submitted By TERRI
WOLTMON   On   04-22-95

