Title: Biram Ruzz (Molded Baked Rice with Chicken)
Categories: Middle east, Poultry, Rice
Yield: 8 servings
;serving pieces
Salt
Black pepper; freshly ground
1 1/2 c  Milk
1 c  Cream, heavy
4 c  Chicken stock; fresh or can
4 tb Butter; softened
2 tb Butter; cut into 1/4 inch
;pieces
3 c  Rice, uncooked; medium or
;long grain rice
2 1/2 lb Chicken; cut into 6 to 8
NOTE:  In Egypt, as in much of the Middle East, rice is eaten in
enormous quality.  This mold, therefore, is mainly composed of rice
(about 9 cups when cooked), and the chicken is more or less a
flavorful accompaniment for the rice.
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees (F).  Using a pastry brush, heavily
coat the bottom and sides of a round, deep 3 quart casserole or
baking dish with the 4 tablespoons of softened butter.
Spread 1 « cups of the rice evenly in the dish, arrange the pieces
of chicken skin side up on top and sprinkle them liberally with salt
and pepper.  In a small saucepan, bring the milk, cream and 2 cups of
the stock to a boil over high heat and pour over the chicken. Spread
the rest of the rice on top and dot evenly with the 2 tablespoons of
the cut up butter.
Bake uncovered on the lowest shelf of the oven for 15 minutes.
Meanwhile, bring the remaining 2 cups of stock to a simmer in a small
saucepan and keep it barely simmering over low heat.  Pour 1 cup of
the simmering stock into the casserole and bake for 15 minutes
longer. Pour in the remaining stock and transfer the casserole to the
upper third of the oven. Continue baking for another 30 minutes, then
remove the casserole from the oven, cover tightly with a lid or foil
and let it rest at room temperature for about 20 minutes.
To unmold and serve, run a sharp knife around the inside edges of
the casserole to loosen the biram ruzz and let it rest for 10 minutes
longer. Place a heated serving platter upside down over the top, and,
grasping the casserole and platter together firmly, quickly invert
them. The biram ruzz should slide out easily.  Serve at once.

90 of 116

Source: Time Life Series: Middle Eastern Cooking  "circa  69"

MMed by: earl.cravens@salata.com in
Submitted By EARL CRAVENS   On   03-24-95

