Title: Blintzes
Categories: Pastry
Yield: 16 servings
1 c  All-purpose flour
1 pn Salt (optional)
Vegetable oil
4    Eggs, lightly beaten
1 tb Corn oil, divided
1 c  Milk or water
In a mixing bowl, combine the eggs and oil.  Beat eggs/oil mixture
until light and frothy.  Beat in the milk/water and then beat in the
flour. Add the salt, if desired.  Beat until well blended.  Pour the
batter into a pitcher.  Cover. Refrigerate for 10 to 15 minutes,
until the flour absorbs the liquid and thickens.

Place a 8 or 9-inch non-stick frying or omlet pan over medium heat.
Using a piece of paper towel dipped in vegetable oil, lightly grease
the pan. When the pan is very hot, quickly pour some of the batter
into the skillet, swirl very quickly to cover the entire surface, and
rapidly pour the excess back into the pitcher.  When the batter
starts curling away from sides of the pan.  Shake the crepe out onto
a clean dish towel or paper towels. Repeat until all the batter is
used.  Cover the crepes with plastic wrap or a damp dish towel until
you are ready to use them to prevent them from drying out.  Makes 16
to 18 crepes.

TO FREEZE THE BLINTZES:  The crepes freeze perfectly at this point.
Place a piece of waxed paper between each crepe.  Arrange them in a
stack of about 16 crepes.  Wrap the stack in a piece of heavy-duty
aluminum foil or an airtight plastic container.  Seal tightly.  When
you want to make blintzes, remove as many crepes as you will need and
thaw them at room temperature, 20 to 30 minutes.  Let the frozen
crepes thaw completely, then fry them in butter or margarine.

ADVICE FROM MAMA:  Most filled blintzes may be frozen before cooking
as well. The only ones I don't like to freeze are the cheese
blintzes, because freezing changes the texture of the cheese, but not
the taste.

Blintzes can also be frozen after fried.  Defrost the frozen blintzes
completely and reheat in a preheated, 325 degree F oven for 20
minutes.

Blintzes with Potato Filling

russet or Idaho potatoes, peeled and thin sliced
3  large
water salt 3 Tbsps corn oil 1 large onion, diced 1 Tbsp salt, or to
taste 1 tsp black pepper, freshly ground, or to taste 16 to 18
prepared crepes for blintzes (see R-BLINTZES) 2 to 4 Tbsps butter or
margarine, for frying

Bring a pot of salted water to a boil.  Add the sliced potatoes.  Boil
until the potatoes are tender.  Drain.

Meanwhile, in a saute pan or small skillet, heat the corn oil and
saute the onion until dark golden brown.

In a bowl, place the cooked potatoes.  Mash them together with with
the sauteed onions.  Season with salt and pepper to taste.

In the center of a crepe, place about 1 tablespoon of the potato/onion
filling.  Fold the bottom of the crepe up over the filling.  Fold the
opposite sides of the crepe over to meet in the middle of the crepe.
Now folded the crepe over again to completely enclosed the filling.
Arrange the filled crepes, fold-side down, on a platter to wait until
all the blintzes are made.  When the blintzes are filled they can be
frozen or refrigerated until ready to use.

In a frying pan, melt 2 tablespoons butter/margarine.  Fry the
blintzes on both sides until golden brown.  Add more butter/margarine
to the frying as needed.  Makes 16 to 18 blintzes.

