Title: Capon or Chicken Crowned with Eggs
Categories: Medieval, Main dish, Poultry
Yield: 6 servings  Capouns in councy.  Take capouns and rost hem right hoot, that they
be not half ynough, and hewe hem in gobbettes, and cast hem in a pot;
do therto clene broth.  Seeth hem that they be tendre.  Take brede
and the self broth and draw it up yfere; take strong powdour and
safroun and salt and cast therto.  Take ayren and seeth hem harde;
take out the yolkes and hew the whyte, take the pot fro the fyre and
cast the whyte therinne. Messe the dysshes therwith, and lay the
yolkes aboue hool and flour it with clowes.

1 x 2.3-2.7 kg/5-6 lb capon or large roasting chicken Chicken fat or
butter for greasing 850 ml/1 1/2 pints/3 3/4 cups chicken stock 1/4
teaspoon dried saffron strands 125 g/4 oz soft-grain white
breadcrumbs Sea salt to taste 1/4-1/2 teaspoon each black pepper,
cinnamon and ginger 1/8 teaspoon ground cloves 6 eggs, hard-boiled

The Goodman said stoutly that stuffing and tinting chickens was too
difficult for a commoner's cook.  Perhaps he decided this dish was
easier.

Pre-heat the oven to 200C/424F/Gas Mark 7.  Grease the breast of the
bird with fat and roast it for 15-20 minutes or until browned.  Cool
it slightly, then cut the flesh off the bones, removing the skin if
you wish. Cut the meat into bite-sized pieces.  Put them in a pan
with the stock, cover the pan and cook gently for 25 minutes or until
the meat is cooked. While cooking transfer 3 or 4 tablespoons of
stock to a bowl and steep the saffron in it.

Strain the stock from the cooked chicken into a clean pan and add the
saffron-tinted stock.  Keep the meat warm in a covered dish while you
make the sauce.  Mix the breadcrumbs with the salt and ground spices,
then stir the mixture into the stock.  Simmer it for a few minutes,
stirring it occasionally to make a thickened sauce.

Separate the egg yolks and whites without breaking the yolks.  Chop
the whites finely.  Mix the chicken meat into the hot sauce and turn
it on to a warmed serving platter.  Edge the dish with chopped egg
white and crown it with the whole golden yolks.

from The Medieval Cookbook by Maggie Black Chaper 4, "The Goodman of
Paris" posted by Tiffany Hall-Graham From: Tiffany Hall-Graham Date:
05-26-94 Submitted By DALE SHIPP   On   04-20-95

