Title: Chicken With A Coat Hanger Up Its Butt
Categories: Bbq/grill, Poultry
Yield: 1 servings
(your favorite)
6    Ears Fresh corn on the cob
1    Whole Chicken
Salt
Bar-B-Que Sauce
This is one of my favorites along with steamed fresh picked corn on
the cob, sliced garden tomatoes and Honey Dew melons.

To prepare the barbecue; Take two steel coat hangers, using pliers or
a wire cutter, cut the twisted ends off. Straighten the hangers.

Locate the center of each wire and twist the two together at that
point, using not more than two twists. Bend the wires so the twisted
portion forms a top with four legs hanging down.  Determine how much
height is able to fit under the cover of your barbecue grill and
still close the lid. Bend the legs at slightly less than maximum
height, so that each leg overlaps the adjoining clockwise leg.  At
about 1 to 1-1/2 inches out, make one twist with each leg around the
adjoining leg. This should give you a stable inverted V with
spreading arms for support.

Place the tower in the middle of the barbecue grill and trim any
excess arm length that would prevent you from closing the cover.

Adjust the heat to low.

Cooking the chicken;  Set the well washed and salted chicken on the
wire tower, checking to assure the heat will be able to rise through
the body cavity free of obstruction.  Cook covered under a low heat
for at least 1 hour, checking progress frequently. As the chicken
cooks the fat will run down under the skin and form bubbles in the
chickens bottom. ( Assuming you didn't put the chicken on the tower
upside down, which would give the chicken the appearance of a strange
flower with its wings and legs sticking out, and be quite a sight to
any neighbor watching this process, probably.

I prefer to have my chickens assume the apearance of a squatting
Buddha, with their little wings folded in and their cute little knees
pushed up.. but I digress )  Pierce the fat bubbles with a meat fork
and let it run out.  To keep from burning and add flavor, douse flame
ups with a slosh of beer and close the cover, trapping the beer
steam.  When chicken is golden brown and fully cooked, you can apply
your favorite barbecue sauce using the thin layering technique to
establish build up. You will have a moist delicious chicken with most
of the fat removed, and you still get to eat the skin. :-)

Cooking the corn; Remove husk from 6 ears of freshly picked corn.
Scrub lightly with a small potato brush to remove any left on hair.
Place a steamer shelf in a kettle large enough to hold the corn when
covered.

Add 2 to 3 cups of water, and corn. Bring to a boil and steam for 10
minutes while chicken is cooling.

Cooking Echo
Shared by Bob Gearhart

: Bob Gearhart
Recipe By

Date: 04-03-95 (160) Fido:
From: Marjorie Scofield
Recipes

