Title: Commander's Palace
Categories: Information, Masterchefs, New orleans
Yield: 1 servings
1 x  No ingredients
Chef Gerhard Brill stands at the helm of one of New Orleans'
premier dining establishments, Commander's Palace.  Despite its
casual ambience, Commander's is a razor-sharp operation that serves
seven to eight hundred diners a day, seven days a week.

Chef Brill is well prepared to oversee this showplace operation.
His mother was a chef in his native Germany, so Brill started cooking
as a young child.  After his apprenticeship in his homeland, he spent
ten years in some of the great restaurants of Switzerland working as
a saucier and chef.  Following a year in France he came to America,
bringing to this country his talents and knowledge of international
cuisine.

In 1980 Brill became executive chef at Commander's Palace.
There he has trained his staff to excel in high-quality cuisine.  As
a result, both Commander's and Chef Brill have received national
recognition for outstanding Creole food.

Despite his and the restaurant's success, Chef Brill constantly
strives for improvement.  His dishes frequently vary from the
conventional, resulting in adroit adaptations of New Orleans
perennials. These creative interpretations of Creole specialties keep
the demanding patrons of Commander's Palace coming back for more.

Menu:

Artichoke and Oyster Souffle (Tender cooked artichoke filled with
delicate oyster souffle and
served with a tasty Oyster sauce.)

Shrimp Chippewa (Shrimp sauteed in chicken stock with garlic, onion,
and mushrooms
in a butter sauce.)

Shrimp with Fettucine (Sauteed shrimp in a savory wine sauce over
fettucini noodles.)

Tournedos Coliseum (Thick medallions of tender beef sauteed in a spicy
Creole seasoning
and topped with either Bernaise, or Marchand de Vin sauces.)

Bread Pudding Souffle (A tasty dessert of bread pudding made even
richer and more sinful
by being turned into a souffle.)

Source: Great Chefs of New Orleans, Tele-record Productions
:    Box 71112, New Orleans, Louisiana - 1983
:    Chef Gerhard Brill, Commander's Palace Restaurant, New
Orleans

