Title: Crozier's
Categories: Information, Masterchefs, New orleans
Yield: 1 servings
1 x  No Ingredients
Gerard Crozier is both owner and chef of Crozier's, a small
French restaurant that serves some of the best, most inviting food in
New Orleans or any other city.  When Chef Crozier gave up working in
a hotel kitchen to establish his own restaurant, he quickly built a
following of connoisseurs despite an unassuming location in a
shopping center. Chef Crozier was successful enough to build his own
building, and he did an unusual thing: He made his dining room
smaller so he could serve even better food.

This dedication to absolute quality pervades the cooking of
Gerard Crozier.  His dishes are deceptively simple and have few exotic
ingredients.  There is no nonsense -- just honest, straightforward
cooking that is delicious.

Chef Crozier has made the transition from his native Lyon, the
culinary capital of France, to New Orleans with his palate unjaded.
His rendition of French classics is a voyage at table, all the
flavors of France carrying the diner away in reverie.

Because the dishes are elemental, reflecting the integrity of the
ingredients, those ingredients must be the very best and freshest
available.  Stocks must be rich and wines distinctive.  If you use
the same discrimination and follow the steps carefully, you too will
be able to serve a bit of France at your table.

Menu:

French Pate (A rich brandied chicken, veal, and pork pate surrounding
a middle
layer of tender duck.)

French Onion Soup (Classic chicken stock based onion soup with cheese
covered croutons
broiled to toasty perfection.)

Rabbit Chasseur (Baked rabbit in mushrooms and wine sauce.)

Ratatouille (Delicious side dish of vegetables including tomatoes,
bell pepper
zucchini and eggplant.)

Floating Island (A sinfully rich and deceptively "light" concoction
of egg,
milk and vanilla covered with a caramel sauce.)

Source: Great Chefs of New Orleans, Tele-record Productions
:    Box 71112, New Orleans, Louisiana - 1983
:    Chef Gerard Crozier, Crozier's Restaurant, New Orleans

