Title: Decorated Meatballs
Categories: Medieval, Meats, Appetizers
Yield: 18 meatballs  Pumpes.  Take an sethe a gode gobet of Porke, & not to lene, as
tendyr as thou may; than take hem vppe & choppe forth with-alle, &
Also choppe forth with Roysonys of coraunce; than take hem & rolle
hem as round as thou may, lyke to smale pelettys, a ij inches
a-bowte, than ley hem on a dysshe be hem selue; than make a gode
Almounde mylke, & a lye it with floure of Rys, & lat it boyle wyl,
but loke that it be clene rennyng, & at the dressoure, ley v pompys
in a disshe, & pore thin potage ther-on. An if thou wolt, sette on
euery ponpe a flos campy flour, & a-boue straw on Sugre y-now, &
Maces; & serue hem forth.  And sum men make the pellettys of vele or
beeff, but Porke ys beste & fayrest.

900 g/2 lb lean pork without skin or bone 1.1 litres/2 pints/5 cups
beef stock, skimmed of fat 125 g/4 oz ground almonds 1 tablespoon
rice flour or cornflour 1 tablespoon currants 1/4 teaspoon ground
mace 1/8 teaspoon ground cloves Salt and pepper A little oil for
greasing Garnish: White sugar and ground mace for sprinkling Small
real or dried flowers

These meatballs can be used as snacks for two or three people, or as a
garnish for roast poultry or game.  Cook the pork in the stock until
just about tender.  Drain it, reserving the stock,  Use 275 ml/ 10 fl
oz/ 1 1/4 cups of the stock to make almond 'milk' with the ground
almonds and rice flour or cornflour as described in a previous
recipe. Put this and the rest of the stock aside, separately, to cool.

Cut the pork into small slices.  It should still be moist but not
pink. Process the slices in batches in an electric blender, adding
the currants, spices and seasoning while processing.  Form the
mixture into 18 meatballs about 4 cm/1 1/2 inches in diameter.  Roll
these in a lightly greased frying-pan until lightly browned all over,
then leave to cool. Thin down the almond 'milk' if necessary with a
little stock; it should coat the meatballs lightly.  Cover each
meatball with a little 'sauce'. Just before serving, sprinkle the
dish lightly with white sugar and the golden mace, and decorate with
small vivid flowers.

from The Medieval Cookbook by Maggie Black Chapter 6, "The Court of
Richard II" posted by Tiffany Hall-Graham From: Tiffany Hall-Graham
Date: 05-27-94 Submitted By DALE SHIPP   On   04-20-95

