Title: Deda's Puri (Mother's Dough)
Categories: Breads, Russian
Yield: 2 servings
3/4 c  Lukewarm Water
1 ts Salt
2 3/4 c  Unbleached Flour
Oil
1/4 ts Sugar
1 tb Dry Yeast Or 1/2 Oz
Compressed Yeast
1/4 c  Warm Water (100 Degrees)
Dissolve the sugar 1st, then the yeast in a small bowl containing the
warm water. Let stand in a warm place for 10 mins, or until mixture
bubbles and doubles in volume. Pour into a large bowl and stir in the
lukewarm water, salt, and flour. Mix well until dough is formed. Turn
onto a floured board and knead for 10 to 15 mins. The dough should be
smooth and elastic. Warm and lightly oil a large bowl and place the
dough in it. Turn the dough in the bowl to coat the entire surface
with oil. Cover with a dishtowel and let stand in a warm, draftfree
place until doubled in bulk. Preheat the oven to 450 F. Punch down
the dough and shape it in whichever way you prefer. For deda's puri,
divide the dough into 2 equal portions and roll each into a ball.
With floured hands, gently pat the first dough ball until it has been
flattened into a 1/4- to 1/2-inch-thick circle. Place it on a
nonstick or lightly greased baking sheet and with your index finger
make a hole 1/2 inch in diameter thru' the center of the dough. This
is an air vent and prevents the dough from puffing up in the center
while cooking. Repeat with 2nd ball of dough. Place the bread in the
upper third of oven and bake for 10 to 12 mins, or until very pale
gold in color.

For shoti's puri, follow the same procedure as for deda's puri. The
only difference is that shoti's puri is oval with molded handles at
each end. Rather than a hole in the middle, several indentations are
made along the length of the puri. When served formally both puris
are cut in 1 1/2 inch slices. When served informally at home they are
torn into chunks. (Author's Note) A 14-inch topless pizza with a hole
punched in the center is identical to the Georgian deda's puri.

: The Classic Cuisine of Soviet Georgia - ISBN
Recipe By
0-13-138215-2

Date: 03-01-95 (9) Cooking
From: Dan Klepach

