Title: Foil Dinners
Categories: Fatfree, Vegetables, Bbq/grill
Yield: 6 servings
6 sm Red potatoes cubed (large)
1 ea Falafel mix
1 ea Any seasoning you like (I
Like cayenne and black
Pepper)
1    Onion sliced
1    Bell pepper sliced
1    Zuchini sliced
3    Or 4 carrots sliced
6    Mushrooms
Start charcoals. Mix the falafel per instructions.  Cut all
vegetables.

When falafel is ready, get a piece of foil big enough to fit all the
ingredients.  (You'll know how big after you do your first one!)  Put
shiny side in.  (I don't know why, just do it!)

Put some falafel mix in the middle, shape like an oblong pattie.  Put
some of each vegetable on top, watch for carrots that like to roll
off. :-) Sprinkle lots of seasoning.

Now the tricky part, closing the foil.  You make a boat and take the
long sides, put them together and roll a couple of times (as many as
you can). You then take the ends and roll them upwards as far as you
can.  I take another piece of foil and wrap it again the same way in
the same direction. You want to do it in such a way that no juice or
steam can escape.

Do this until you are out of food.  I made six good sized dinners with
falafel and 2 with just vegetables.  I probably used between 1.5 and
2 cups of falafel mix.

Put foil dinners on coals, making sure there are no flames.  After
about 15 minutes, you can flip the dinners.  When you start to smell
the food, it probably is done.  You really need to just make sure the
vegetables are cooked. You can check a dinner at any time and just
close it back up if it's not ready.

This is a really great dinner.  Serve with bread if you have it.  I
like to put picante sauce on mine.

Source: I changed a recipe that a friend made for us before I became a
vegetarian.

Posted by dwahl@aries.uthscsa.edu (Denise Wahl) to the Fatfree Digest
[Volume 16 Issue 17] Mar. 21, 1995.

Individual recipes copyrighted by originator. FATFREE Recipe
collections copyrighted by Michelle Dick 1995. Formatted by Sue Smith,
SueSmith9@aol.com using MMCONV. Archived through kindness of Karen
Mintzias, km@salata.com.

1.80รก

