Title: Frozen Milky Way Mousse w/Bittersweet Choc. Sauce
Categories: Desserts, Candies
Yield: 12 servings
MMMMM----------------------CHOCOLATE SAUCE---------------------------
3 tb Unsalted butter
1 ts Vanilla extract
1/2 ts Instant coffee powder
1 c  Whipping cream
1/2 c  Sugar
1/3 c  Unsweetened cocoa powder
MMMMM---------------------------MOUSSE--------------------------------
-tablespoons)
1/2 c  Sugar
3 tb Water
3 ea Large egg whites
1/4 ts Cream of tartar
1 1/4 c  Whipping cream - chilled
1 ts Vanilla extract
1 1/2 c  1/2-inch pieces Milky Way
-bars (about 8-1/4 oz.)
6 oz Semisweet chocolate -
-chopped
3 oz Unsweetened chocolate -
-chopped
1/2 ea Stick unsalted butter - (4
SAUCE: Combine whipping cream, sugar, unsweetened cocoa powder and
unsalted butter in heavy medium saucepan.  Bring to simmer over
medium-low heat, whisking constantly until butter melts and sugar and
cocoa dissolve. Remove from heat and whisk in vanilla extract and
instant coffee powder. Cool sauce.  (Can be prepared 1 week ahead.
Cover and refrigerate.) MOUSSE: Line 9x5x3-inch loaf pan with
parchment paper. Combine Milky Way pieces, semisweet chocolate,
unsweetened chocolate and unsalted butter in large heatproof bowl set
over pan of simmering water.  Stir condstantly until melted (mixture
will look grainy).  Remove bowl from over water and cool mixture
slightly. Combine sugar and water in heavy small saucepan. Stir over
low heat until sugar dissolves. Increase heat to high and boil syrup
until temperature reaches 230F on candy thermometer. Meanwhile, beat
egg whites and cream of tartar to soft peaks in bowl. Gradually pour
boiling syrup into egg whites, beating until stiff peaks form and
whites are cool, about 5 minutes.  Using rubber spatula, fold whites
into chocolate mixture in 2 additions.  Beat chilled whipping cream
and vanilla extract to soft peaks in medium bowl. Using rubber
spatula, fold cream into chocolate mixture in 2 additions. Spoon
mousse into prepared pan. Cover with plastic wrap and freeze until
firm, at least 6 hours. (Can be prepared 1 week ahead.  Keep frozen.)
Heat sauce to lukewarm over low heat. Remove plastic wrap from top of
mousse. Invert mousse onto plater. Remove pan and peel off parchment
paper. Slice mousse crosswise into 12 slices.  Cut each diagonally
into 2 triangles.  For each serving, arrange 2 mousse triangles on
plate; spoon warm chocolate sauce over and around mousse and serve.
Serves 12.

Photo shows triangles lined up like rectangle with space in between. A
smooth cake decorator tool has been used to put sauce on each piece
with a tad of sauce squeezed on the outside of each triangle.  Top
with chocolate curls.

Source: Bon Appetit - June, 1993

I've made this about a half-dozen times in the two years I've had it.
It's not Mississippi Mud Cake, but is as chocolately and rich, and a
bit more elegant, if you ask me.

per serving:
Approx. Cook Time: Cholesterol per
Calories
grams per serving:
serving: Marks:

Submitted By MICHELLE BASS   On   04-14-95

