Title: General Information about Beans 3
Categories: Information
Cooking the Beans
Yield: 1 info

Stove-Top Cooking

* Beans should always be covered with water or unsalted stock while
cooking. Sometimes aromatic vegetables (such as onions, carrots or
celery) and herbs (such as thyme, parsley and oregano) are added for
additional flavor. * Tilt the lid of the pot ever so slightly to
prevent boiling over and to allow steam to escape. * Beans should
always be simmered gently so that the skins don't burst. * If water
level goes down, add boiling water as needed. * Stir only
occasionally and never bring to a rolling boil or the beans will
burst and become mushy. * Start the beans cooking in tepid water -
not cold - the same rule that applies to soaking and rinsing. * If
the water should foam, you might want to skim it off just once or
twice. Occasionally the foam will coat the beans or make them gritty.
However, after just a few skimmings, don't pay attention to the foam.
It will sink to the bottom and disappear eventually. * Never add salt
or anything acidic while the beans are cooking: tomatoes, vinegar,
wine, molasses or citrus juices. Add salt only after the beans are
almost tender. And if you're cooking with stock, make certain that it
is unsalted. If any of these are added before the beans are tender,
they will eventually get soft but the cooking time will be greatly
increased. * Keep in mind that the older the beans, the longer they
have been stored, the longer the cooking time. * To test for
doneness, bite-taste a few beans, since some may be tender and some
may not. They should be tender but not mushy. If they are not the
proper consistency, continue to cook and taste them often. * When
cooling, keep the beans in their cooking liquid to prevent them from
drying out and so that the skins won't burst or split. * If you're
reheating beans, add a tablespoon or two of water or reserved cooking
liquid. As beans cool, they have a tendency to inhale any leftover
liquid that may still be there.

Baking Beans

* Soak the beans overnight, covering them with tepid water about three
inches over the volume of the beans. * Next day, preheat the oven to
325F. Rinse, drain and place the beans in an ovenproof casserole or
bean pot. * Cover with fresh water to about three inches over the
volume of the beans. * Put the casserole or bean pot on top of the
stove, bring to a boil, then cover and place in the center of the
oven. Bake forty to sixty minutes or more, depending on the size and
age of the beans. Keep them in their liquid until ready to use.

The Versatile Grain
and the
Elegant Bean
by Sheryl and Mel London
ISBN 0-671-76106-4
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   03-19-95

