Title: Goldene Yoich (Golden Chicken Soup)
Categories: Soup/stew, Jewish
Yield: 6 servings
1 1/2 lb Soup Vegetables (750 g)
1 md Parsley Root (petrushka)
-with leaves
1 lg Old Boiling Fowl; washed
-well
X  Cold water to cover
GOLDENE YOICH

It is almost impossible to give a recipe for chicken soup. Flavourings
change from family to family and from season to season. Any
combination of the following vegetables could be used: onion, leek,
carrots, celery leaves, parsnip, courgette and pumpkin. Sometimes
whole red tomatoes were added to improve the the color of the soup.
For the same reason, onions were sometimes left unpeeledto darken the
color of the soup. The most essential falavouring, which seems to
have been used all over Europe, was the parsley root (petrushka). It
is useless to attempt this soup using a roasting chicken; the results
will be insipid. An old, tough bird (boiling chicken) is needed.
Include the cleaned feet as they contain gelatine. Once the soup is
ready the chicken becomes pretty much redundant. However, the thrifty
Jewish cook found numerous ways of utilising it. The chicken could be
basted with fat collected from the top of the soup and browned in the
oven until the skin is crisp and crunchy, which makes the chicken
almost edible. Or it could be made into a cold salad or served with
egg and lemon saauce (lemon juice thickened over steam with egg
yolks). The vegetables, although tasteless and mushy, can be served
separately, as a garnish in the soup, or mashed with breadcrumbs and
eggs and fried, like rissoles.

x  Bouquet Garni - made with petrushka leaves, a few celery leaves, 2
bay leaves and a strip of lemon peel x Peppercorns ( afew)

Wash the chicken well in plenty of cold, running water. If the feet
are used, scorch them well over an open flame and rub to remove the
hard skin. Put the washed chicken in a large stock pot. Cover with
cold water and bring very slowly to the boil. Simmer for 10 minutes
and skim the surface well. Add the vegetables with the parsley,
bouquet garni and peppercorns and simmer, very gently, for 3 hours.
Lift out the chicken and discard the bouquet garni. Skim almost all
the fat from the top. It is important that a littl efat should be
left to achieve the customary yellow globules which add sparkle to
the soup. Serve either the clear or with one of the many "content"
(garnishes), such as rice, baked croutons, (mandlen or soup
`almonds'), noodles (vermicelli), or dumplings (einlauf, nockerals or
kneidlach).

From: In Search Of plenty: A History Of Jewish Food (Kyle Cathie Ltd)
By: Oded Schwartz

