Title: Ground Beef, Rice and Yellow Split Pea Boulettes
Categories: Meats, Rice, Vegetables
Yield: 6 servings
Salt and pepper to taste
1    Egg, beaten
1 tb Olive oil
1 tb Butter
1 c  Chicken stock
2 tb Tomato paste
Juice of 1/2 lemon (1 tbs)
Few grains sugar
2    Sprigs mint plus
-extra mint to garnish
Lemon slices
1 c  Water
1/4 c  Yellow split peas, rinsed
1 c  Short-grain brown rice
1 1/2 lb Lean ground beef
4    To 5 thin scallions, minced
2 tb Onion(s), grated plus
1 lg Onion(s), thinly sliced
2 tb Dill, minced
2 tb Parsley, minced
1/4 ts Turmeric
1 ts Syrian Mixed Spices (pg 75)
-or ground allspice
In a 1 1/2-qt. saucepan, bring water and split peas to a boil. Lower
heat, cover and simmer for 20-30 minutes or until the split peas are
partially cooked. Drain and mix with the cooked rice and set pot
aside to cool slightly.

In a large bowl, mix the beef with the scallion, grated onions, dill,
parsley, turmeric, Syrian spice, salt, pepper and egg. Add the rice
and split pea mixture and combine. Wet your hands and form mixture
into 12 balls or boulettes, about the size of a medium apple. Place
on waxed paper and chill in the refrigerator while preparing the
poaching sauce.

In a 12-inch skillet, heat the olive oil and butter and saut the
sliced onions until golden, stirring often. Add the chicken stock. In
a small cup, mix the tomato paste, lemon juice and sugar, and add to
the skillet. Bring to a boil, add the two mint sprigs, lower heat and
simmer, covered, for 5 minutes. Carefully place the boulettes in one
layer into the skillet, cover and simmer gently for 10 minutes.
Remove the cover, tilt the pan, and baste the boulettes with the
sauce. Cover and simmer again for 20 minutes, basting occasionally.

With a slotted spoon, remove the boulettes to a serving dish. Remove
and discard the mint and bring sauce to a boil, uncovered, for 1
minute to reduce it, stirring constantly. Spoon sauce over boulettes
and garnish with slices of lemon and sprigs of mint.

The Versatile Grain
and the
Elegant Bean
by Sheryl and Mel London
ISBN 0-671-76106-4
pg 411
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   03-29-95

