Title: Haddock in Tasty Sauce
Categories: Seafood, Main dish, Medieval
Yield: 6 servings  Haddoke in Cyuee.  Shal be yopened & ywasshe clene & ysode & yrosted
on a gridel; grind peper & saffron, bred and ale mynce oynons, fri
hem in ale, and do therto, and salt:  boille hit, do thyn haddok in
plateres, and the ciuey aboue, and ghif forth.

900 g/2 lb haddock fillet Salt 75 g/3 oz onions, peeled and finely
chopped Oil or butter for frying 1/4 teaspoon ground white pepper 75
g/ 3 oz fine soft white breadcrumbs 125 ml/4 fl oz/ 1/2 cup brown ale

A *civet* is a piquant stew, usually made with meat of furred game;
hence the brown ale.  In old dishes the cook is usually told to
'drawe' a fish, animal or bird when it is merely to be cleaned, so I
have interpreted *yopened* to mean the the creature was split right
open and boned. It could then easily be cut in pieces as in a *civet*
and eaten with a spoon. Oil could be used by strict (and wealthy)
dieters for frying food in Lent, but poor folks would probably use
butter, and omit the costly saffron as I have done-the ale kills the
colour anyway.

Skin the haddock fillet and cut it into several pieces.  Put enough
salted water into a shallow pan to cover the fish and bring it to the
boil. Put in the fish and simmer for a moment or two, then cover the
pan and draw it off the heat; the fish will continue to cook in the
hot water while you make the sauce.  For this, fry the onions in the
fat until just beginning to brown.  Mix the pepper with the
breadcrumbs and add them to the onions with the ale and 225 ml/8 fl
oz of the water used to cook the fish. Process until smooth in an
electric blender, then simmer for a few minutes to reheat.

While simmering, drain the remaining water from the cooked fish and
put the pieces on the grill rack.  Brush them with a little melted
fat, then place them under a hot grilling flame until they are just
beginning to glaze. Cut them into bite-sized or serving portions and
spoon some sauce over them. Serve the rest separately.  If you do not
like ale or beer use cider instead.

from The Medieval Cookbook by Maggie Black Chapter 3, "Life in the
Cloister" posted by Tiffany Hall-Graham From: Tiffany Hall-Graham
Date: 05-24-94
Submitted By DALE SHIPP   On   04-20-95

