Title: Herbs and Spices 2
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 info  NUTMEG and MACE:
:  From the tough, husked fruit. The outer portion is mace, the
milder of :  the two. The harad, inner kernel is nutmeg which is
stronger. Use mace :  in pickling and preserves- lightly in fish
sauces. Good in baked goods :  and desserts. Use nutmeg in sausage,
cakes, doughnuts, puddings and :  eggnog.

CARAWAY:
:  The leaves can be used sparingly in soups and stews. The seeds are
:  similar in flavor to cumin. Add to rye breads, cheeses, stews,
:  marinades, cabbage, sourkraut, turnips and onions. Good for
pickling. :  Over cooking :  will make it bitter.

BAY LEAVES:
:  Use with discretion, rather pungent. Use in stuffings, stocks,
sauces, :  marinades, vegetables, meats. The leaves release their
flavor best in :  oil. Great in stews, Middle Eastern cooking.

CUMIN SEED:
:  A principle ingredient in curry. Use in cheese, saurkraut,
unleavened :  bread, marinades. Goes with chilies, salsas. Good in
chili, bean soups :  etc. Best known for it's use in Mexican cookery.

PAPRIKA:
:  Dried, ripe red pepper. Use to season shell fish, salads,
dressings. :  Adds color to deviled eggs. Good in stews, esp. Eastern
European :  cooking.

CORIANDER:
:  Often referred to as "Chinese Parsley". An ingredient of curries.
Cook :  with chicken, pea soups, stews, roasts,  and clams. Use in
apple pie and :  fruit preserves.

CILANTRO:
:  Leaf of the coriander plant. Pungent leaves can be used with fish,
:  chicken, Middle Eastern, Thai, Mexican cooking such as salsas.

SESAME OIL and SEED:
:  Small, flat, oily seed of the sesame plant. Use in cookies,
candies, :  rolls, bread. Oil can be used in Eastern cooking for its
nutty pungent :  flavor. Used also in Oriental chicken and pork
dishes.

CURRY:
:  Usually a blend of ginger, coriander, cardamom, cayanne, cumin, and
:  turmeric. Flavor varies from hot to mild. Developes its flavor
well when :  exposed to butter or olive oil. Use in Middle Eastern,
i.e. Indian :  cooking. Used with a variety of meats and vegetables,
especially lamb. :  Note:  Turmeric gives curry its yellow color, is
bitter and is good :  with fish.

CARDAMOM:
:  A lovely, strong scented spice that resembles cloves. It's good in
soups :  and pea soup particularly when used with coriander and
cumin. Used in :  Middle Eastern cooking.

LEMON GRASS:
:  Highly aromatic, fiberous plant stalk. Used in rice, marinades,
usually :  in Eastern and Middle Eastern cooking.

CHERVIL:
:  Similar to parsley, except that it is sweeter and hase a slight
anise :  flavor. Especially good with corn and potatoe soups. Brings
out flavor :  of other herbs when used with them. Great with dishes
topped with baked :  cheese.

FENUGREEK:
:  Mostly used in tea. Oil of fenugreek has a maple flavor and can be
used :  in cookies and cakes for a true maple flavor. It's a
healthfull herb and :  is sometimes added to curries for variation of
flavor.

SAVORY:
:  Savory is to beans as eggs is to ham. Can also be used with meats
and :  poultry stuffing. Great for potato salads.
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   03-23-95

