Title: Herbs and Spices 1
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 info  PRINCIPLES OF COOKING:
:  1. Most herbs and spices should be added toward the end of the
period.
cooking :
:  2. Use steel ball or cheese cloth for easy removal of herbs.
:  3. Roots, berries, seeds and spices should used fresh. Spices and
that are dried can be used up to a year.
herbs :
:  4. Over cooking and boiling herbs will make them bitter or dilute
flavor.
their :

CLOVES:
:  Spicy, red, unopened bud of the clove tree. Flavor is stronger in
the :  head than the stem. Use in curries, stewed fruits, baked goods,
:  marmelades, pickles and ham. Use three to four stems stuck in an
onion :  for stocks, esp. for fish.

GINGER ROOT:
:  Available fresh, dried, ground, or candied. Use fresh with meats
and :  vegetables or ground in baked goods. Used a lot in Asian and
Oriental :  cooking. Good in preserves, pickles and dried fruits.

SAGE:
:  Member of the Mint family. Use with fatty meats, such as duck,
pork, :  goose, rabbit. Also sausage, cheese and chowders. Fresh is
good in :  omelets and fritters.

THYME:
:  Member of the Mint family. Use with poultry, mutton, veal, pork,
creole :  cooking, brown sauces, fish, stuffing and stews. Used with
vegetables :  too.

SWEET BASIL:
:  Best known for it's use with tomatoes and dishes like pizza,
spaghetti. :  Good for tossed salads, dressings, egg and cheese
dishes as well as :  veal and meat dishes. Good also for bread and
rolls.

ROSEMARY:
:  Relative of the Mint family. Extremely pungent, use sparingly in
:  marinades, lamb, duck, veal, on peas, spinnach and pizza.

MARJORAM and OREGANO:
:  Both are pungent and similar in use. Marjoram is of the mint
family. :  Use in sausages, stews, tomato dishes, lamb, pork,
chicken, goose, :  omelets, egg dishes, pizza, cream cheese and
salads.

TARRAGON:
:  Related to the licorice family, used fresh or dried. Use sparingly.
:  It is best known for use in seafood and chicken dishes. Good also
with :  salads made of crab meat, shrimp, lobster or potatoes.

ANISE:
:  Small dried ripe fruit of the herb, has the flavor of licorice and
used :  in cakes, cookies, breads and candied items.

FENNEL:
:  The stalk of the dill plant, is slightly bitter and licorice
flavored. :  Good with fish, fish sauces.

DILL:
:  Pungent and slightly bitter; use in sour cream, pickled beans,
cucumbers,
:  cabbage, potato salad, new potatoes, pickles. Good with fish and
fish :  sauces.

CINNAMON:
:  From the inner bark of the cinnamon tree. Use whole or ground in
baked :  goods, fruit compotes and pickles. Use sparingly in
preparing fish :  dishes.

ALLSPICE:
:  A reddish brown berry whose flavor is a blend of cinnamon, cloves,
:  nutmeg and juniper berries. For candied items and baked goods.
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   03-23-95

