Title: Hot And Spicy Shrimp With Noodles (Bon App)
Categories: Seafood, Pasta
Yield: 2 servings
MMMMM------------------TYPED BY MANNY ROTHSTEIN-----------------------
- fresh ginger, minced
4    Garlic cloves, minced
3    Green onions, minced
3/4 ts Dried red pepper flakes
3/4 lb Large raw shrimp, unpeeled
- legs removed
3 tb Peanut oil
2 sm Carrots, peeled and cut
- into 2x1/2x1/4 inch strips
2    Anaheim chilies, seeded and
- cut into 2x1/2 inch strips
1 lg Red bell pepper, seeded and
- cut into 2x1/2 inch strips    2 1/2 ts Cornstarch dissolved in
- 2tb chicken broth
Orange peel julienne
Green onion fans (optional)
1    8oz. package soba noodles or
- spaghetti
1 tb Oriental sesame oil
6    Quarter-size slices peeled
MMMMM--------------------ORANGE JUICE MIXTURE-------------------------
1/4 c  Soy sauce
2 tb Grated orange peel
2 ts Sugar
1 c  Orange juice, fresh
2/3 c  Chicken stock or canned
- broth
Combine last (orange juice mixture) 5 ingredients in small bowl; stir
dissolve completely.

Heat 1 tb peanut oil in wok or heavy large skillet over high heat. Add
carrots, Anaheim chilies and bell pepper and stir-fry until beginning
soften, 4 minutes. Transfer vegetables to bowl.

Cook noodles in large pot of rapidly boiling water until just tender b
still firm to bite, about 3 minutes. Drain well. Toss with sesame oil.
Return to hot pot. Cover to keep warm.

Heat remaining 2 tb peanut oil in wok over high heat. Mix in ginger,
garlic, minced green onions and pepper flakes. Add shrimp and stir unt
beginning to turn pink, about 1 minute. Add orange juice mixture and c
until shrimp are almost cooked through, stirring occasionally, about 3
minutes. Return vegetables to wok and stir until heated through. Pour
cornstarch mixture into center of wok. Stir until sauce thickens. Tran
noodles to heated platter. Spoon shrimp mixture over. Garnish with
ora peel julienne and green onion fans. Serve immediately, or cool
and ser room temperature.

Source: "The Weekday Cook, Bon Appetit Fast & Easy Favorites". Pub
198 This book is a collection of recipes taken from "The Weekday
Cook" col in "Bon Appetit". The recipes were published in the months
when the featured ingredients were best. This recipe is for January.
Submitted By MANNY ROTHSTEIN   On   04-05-95

