Title: Israeli Couscous Primavera with Morels
Categories: Side dish, Question?
Yield: 4 servings
-or canned low-sodium broth
2 tb Olive oil
1 md Onion(s), finely chopped
2 c  Israeli couscous
-(about 10 oz)
1/2 c  Freshly grated Parmesan
-plus
1 1/2 oz Shaved Parmesan
-for garnish
1/4 c  Flat-leaf parsley
-finely chopped
4    Fresh chives
-coarsely chopped
2 oz Dried morels, rinsed
2 lb Fresh fava beans, shelled
-or
1 c  Green peas, fresh or frozen
1/2 lb Medium asparagus, trimmed
3/4 lb Baby leeks or ramps, trimmed
-or
3/4 lb Thin medium leeks
-white and light green only
4 tb Butter
2 lg Shallots, minced
Salt and pepper to taste
3 3/4 c  Chicken stock
1. In a medium bowl, cover the dried morels with hot water. Let stand
until softened, about 15 minutes. Drain well and rinse morels to
remove any grit.

2. Bring a medium pot of salted water to a boil. Add the fava beans
or peas and blanch over high heat just until tender, about 3 minutes
for fava beans or fresh peas and 1 minute for frozen peas. Using a
slotted spoon, transfer the fava beans to a colander and drain
thoroughly. Peel off and discard the skins and transfer the fava
beans to a bowl.

3. Add the asparagus to the boiling water and blanch just until
tender, about 4 minutes. Transfer to the colander, rinse and drain
well. Cut the asparagus into 1 inch pieces and add to the fava beans.

4. Add the leeks to the boiling water and  blanch just until t ender,
about 3 minutes for baby leeks or ramps and 7 minutes for medium
leeks. Transfer to the colander, rinse and drain. Cut the baby leek
or ramps into 1-inch pieces; cut the medium leeks into -inch slices
and add to the fava beans.

5. Melt 1 tbs of the butter in a large saucepan. Add the shallots and
cook over moderately high heat, stirring, until translucent, about 2
minutes. Add the morels and cook, stirring, until tender, about 5
minutes. SEason with salt and pepper. Add  cup of the stock and boil
until evaporated, about 3 minutes. Add to the vegetables in the bowl.

The recipe can be prepared to this point up to 6 hours ahead; cover
and let stand at room temperature.

6. Heat the olive oil in the large saucepan. Add the onion and a
pinch of salt and cook over moderate heat, stirring, until
translucent, about 4 minutes. Stir in the garlic and cook for 1
minute more. Add the couscous and 2 cups of the stock and cook,
stirring occasionally, until the stock is absorbed, about 12 minutes.
Add the remaining 1 cup of stock and cook, stirring, until absorbed,
about 5 minutes. Stir the couscous vigorously to release the starch
and make the risotto creamier. Season with salt and pepper.

7. Add the blanched vegetables and morels to the couscous and cook
over moderate heat, stirring frequently, until heated through, about
1 minute. Stir in the remaining 3 tbs butter, the grated Parmesan,
and the parsley.

8, Spoon the couscous risotto into warmed shallow bowls or soup
plates. Garnish with the chives and shaved Parmesan. Serve at once.

Food and Wine April 1995
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   04-18-95

