Title: Jowtes with Almond Milk
Categories: Medieval, Soup/stew, Vegetables
Yield: 6 servings  Iowtes of almound mylke.  Take erbes; boile hem, hewe hem, and grynde
hem smale.  Take almaundus iblaunchede; grynde hem and drawe hem vp
with water. Set hem on the fire and seeth the iowtes with the mylke,
and cast thereon sugur & salt, & serue it forth.

900 g/2 lb spinach 125 g/4 oz inner green part of leeks (see method)
2 TBSP chopped fresh herbs (e.g. chives, or Welsh onion, thyme and
hyssop) 1.1 litres/ 2 pints/ 5 cups water 125 g/ 4 oz ground almonds
15 g/ 1/2 oz/ rice flour or cornflour Salt and pepper Pinch of sugar
Pinch of grated nutmeg or grated lemon rind (optional)

This filling soup is a rich dark green when prepared with winter
leaves. It probably made an entire meal for the brothers when on
their Lenten diet.

Prepare the spinach by taking off the stalks and washing the leaves
thoroughly; it should weigh about 700 g/1 1/2 lb when prepared. Strip
the green ends of the leeks to expose the tightly folded green part
at the top of the white stem; slice it across thinly.  Strip the herb
leaves off their stems and chop them.  Put all the greens and herbs
into a large stewpan and add 1.1 litres/ 2 pints/ 5 cups water. Bring
to simmering point, cover and cook gently until the leek slices are
just tender.

Put the ground almonds and flour in a saucepan.  Add enough cold
water to make a smooth cream.

Drain the spinach, reserving the cooking liquid.  Chop and puree most
of the spinach in a food processor, keeping a few whole leaves for
garnishing. Stir in the almond 'milk' and about half the reserved
spinach liquid; add the flavourings.  Return the mixture to the pan
and simmer, stirring, until well heated through and slightly
thickened. Add extra liquid if you wish; serve in a tureen with the
garnishing leaves on top.

from The Medieval Cookbook by Maggie Black Chapter 3, "Life in the
Cloister" posted by Tiffany Hall-Graham From: Tiffany Hall-Graham
Date: 05-24-94
Submitted By DALE SHIPP   On   04-20-95

