Title: Julia's Caesar
Categories: Salads
Yield: 4 servings
9 tb Olive oil
2 c  Unseasoned croutons
2    Eggs
1/4 c  Fresh grated parmesan
2 lg Large crisp heads Romaine
-lettuce
2 lg Cloves garlic
1/2 ts Salt
From : Burton Ford, Sat 19 Nov 94 22:20, Area: COOKING

Earl, here's a recipe, from Wine Spectator, for Caesar salad.  They
say in the article that it was invented by restaurateur Caesar
Cardini, an Italian immigrant, in 1924 at Caesar's Palace, Tijuana.
The original had no anchovies, just the hint of anchovies from the
Wocestershire Sauce. The recipe is by Julia Child, in consultation
with Caesar's daughter Rosa. I haven't tried it, it just seems like
something the echo would like to read about.

~juice of 1 lemon -fresh ground black pepper -Worcestershire sauce

For each person select 6 to 8 whole leaves of Romaine, 3 to 7" long.
Wash, drain, wrap in paper towels, and refrigerate until serving.
Put garlic through a press and mix with 1/4 tsp salt and 3 Tbs oil.
Strain into medium fry pan.  Heat to warm and add croutons, toss
until well coated and remove to a bowl.

Coddle eggs by boiling one minute.  (Burt: A bare minimum tip of the
hat to the recent scare about raw eggs)

To assemble salad, have all ingredients in small bowls surrounding a
large salad bowl.  Put romaine into large bowl and pour 4 Tbs olive
oil over it. Toss.  Add 1/4 tsp salt, 8 grinds of pepper, and 2 more
Tbs oil, and toss again. Add lemon juice, 6 drops of Worcestershire
sauce and the eggs, and toss.  Add cheese and toss.  Add croutons and
toss twice more.

To serve, arrange leaves on plates, stems out, w/sprinkling of
croutons on side.  Eat with fingers or forks and knives.  (Burt: The
original was eaten with the fingers.)

CROUTONS:  Cut baguette of french bread into 3/4" cubes.   Toss in
1/4 cup olive oil, and put on baking sheet.  Bake at 350 f. for 20 to
25 minutes, tossing a few times to brown evenly.  Just before done
(?) turn the oven off and let sit 15 minutes before removing.  Makes
about 4 1/2 cups.

Recipe by Julia Child, with Rosa Cardini (Caesar's daughter). Typed
by Burt Ford From Wine Spectator, July 31, 1994 pg 87

