Title: La Provence
Categories: Information, Masterchefs, New orleans
Yield: 1 servings
1 x  No Ingredients
Chef Chris Kerageorgiou is the proud owner of La Provence, where
he presides in a pleasure dome of a kitchen that he built himself.
It is elaborate and comfortable because, as the Chef says, he lives
there. He can be reached there early in the morning or late at night
seven days a week, even though he is only open for dinner five nights
a week. The rest of the time he is creating new dishes for his menu
or teaching his staff or students the intricacies of fine cooking.

Chef Kerageorgiou was born in southern France of Greek parents,
and the two styles form the core of his cooking.  After he landed in
the United States, he began working towards his goal of opening a
restaurant featuring the food of his youth in a setting evocative of
Provence. When he saw an aging motel in the piney woods across Lake
Pontchartrain from New Orleans, his quest was at an end.  While he is
at home creating in his kitchen, his guests can relax before a
roaring fire or a tree-shaded terrace, depending on the season.  They
are secure in the knowledge that their host will please their palates
with a singular style of cooking.

The best of the freshest ingredients arrive at the La Provence
kitchen and are transformed into flavorful fantasies by the knowing
hands of the Chef.  Never is any potential flavoring agent
overlooked, as you will notice in the use of shells, bones, herbs and
stocks by Chef Kerageorgiou.

Menu:

Fish Pate (Trout pate laced with a crab sauce.)

Noisettes D'Agneau (Medallions of marinated lamb covered with a rich
sauce made of lamb
stock and served covered with sauteed sweet garlic.)

Salade D'Endives (Endive tossed with a Dijon vinaigrette dressing.)

Souffle au Grand Marnier (Traditional souffle dusted with chocolate
and served with Grand
Marnier liqueur.)

Source: Great Chefs of New Orleans, Tele-record Productions
:    Box 71112, New Orleans, Louisiana - 1983
:    Chef Chris Kerageorgiou, La Provence Restaurant, New Orleans

