Title: La Riviera Restaurant
Categories: Information, Masterchefs, New orleans
Yield: 1 servings
1 x  No ingredients
Chef Goffredo Fraccaro is an entertainer.  His stage is his
restaurant, La Riviera.  As he bounces to and fro in his kitchen, his
arms wave in explication of a funny anecdote or a reenactment of an
experience. His timing is perfect, and the punch line always brings
down the house. As the laughter fades, Chef Fraccaro grabs bits of
this and that and transforms them in to Italian specialties of
exquisite design and flavor. His timing remains perfect, and his
creations do for the palate what his wit does for the soul.

Chef Fraccaro is an expert at transforming what is available and
good into a savory feast.  His training on ships taught him well ---
there is nowhere to get missing ingredients once at sea.  This is how
his award-winning ravioli with crabmeat came about.  He had some
crabmeat that was perfect and wanted to showcase it to its fullest
for a contest. Fraccaro remembered his mother's making ravioli out of
whatever was on hand in Genovese home, so the seed was germinated for
his most famous creation.

Chef Fraccaro's other dishes are delightful Italian specialties
made from local ingredients, but always with an interesting twist to
make them tantalizing to the palate.  This, coupled with the Chef's
making everything from pasta to sausage from scratch, makes La
Riviera exceptional in a city full of outstanding restaurants.

Menu:

Crabmeat Ravioli
(Savory crabmeat filled pasta ravioli smothered in bechamel sauce.)

Fried Calamari
(Lightly breaded, fried squid munchies.)

Brociolone
(Stuffed tender veal covered with Italian tomato sauce.)

Broccoli Italian Style
(Blanched broccoli florets sauteed in garlic and olive oil.)

Custard Cups with Strega
(Delicious vanilla custard served with Strega liqueur.)

Source: Great Chefs of New Orleans, Tele-record Productions
:    Box 71112, New Orleans, Louisiana - 1983
:    Chef Goffredo Fraccaro, La Riviera Restaurant, New Orleans

