Title: Lasagne Layered with Cheese
Categories: Medieval, Main dish, Pasta, Cheese/eggs
Yield: 6 servings  Losyns.  Take good broth and do in an erthen pot.  Take flour of
paynedemayn and make therof past with water, and make therof thynne
foyles as paper with a roller; drye it harde and seeth it in broth.
Take chese ruayn grated and lay it in disshes with powdour douce, and
lay theron loseyns isode as hoole as thou myght, and above powdour
and chese; and so twyse or thryse, & serue it forth.

9-10 sheets lasagne (broad noodles) made with white flour 1.7 litres/3
pints/7 1/2 cups meat or chicken stock or water Butter for greasing
Ground mace and cardamom or cinnamon and a little white pepper for
spicing About 175 g/6 oz full-fat hard cheese (such as Cheddar),
grated

This would have been thought (by some) an ideal dish as a last
course, to 'seal in' the alcohol so often imbibed too freely by the
young. You can, if you wish, prepare your own lasagne as the medieval
cooks did. But commercially produced dried pasta makes an equally
simple and comforting dish for meatless meals.

Choose a square or oblong baking dish which will hold the pasta in
three layers.  If you pile it higher in a smaller dish, it may be
difficult to slice and serve six helpings.

Bring the stock or water to the boil in a fairly big pan and boil the
lasagne in three or four batches until all the sheets are cooked.  As
each batch is done, remove the sheets with tongs or a pair of forks
to a warmed, damp tea-towel on a flat work-top and lay them flat side
by side.

Grease the inside of your chosen dish with butter.  Sprinkle the
bottom lightly with spices and a quarter of the cheese.  Cover with a
layer of pasta, trimmed to fit the dish if required.  Repeat the
layers of spice, cheese and pasta twice, and end with a last layer of
spice and cheese. Re-heat until the cheese is melted.

from The Medieval Cookbook by Maggie Black Chapter 5, "Of Manners and
Meals" posted by Tiffany Hall-Graham From: Tiffany Hall-Graham Date:
05-26-94
Submitted By DALE SHIPP   On   04-20-95

