Title: Lavosh
Categories: Breads, Masterchefs, New orleans
Yield: 6 loaves
2 oz Butter, melted (1/2 stick)
1 tb Seeds, sesame, white, OR
Onions, chopped
Seeds, poppy
1 pk Yeast, active, dry 1/4 oz
1 1/2 ts Sugar
1 c  Water, warm 115 F
2 tb Water, warm 115 F
3 c  Flour, all-purpose
Pour the yeast into a clean, small, shallow bowl.  Add 1
teaspoon of the sugar and 1/4 cup of the warm water.  Let the mixture
stand for 2 to 3 minutes, then stir to dissolve the yeast completely.
Place the bowl in a warm, draft-free place for 5 to 10 minutes or
until the mixture looks foamy and has almost doubled in volume.

Measure your flour into a mixing bowl, and make a well in the
center of the flour.  Pour the yeast mixture into this center
depression, and then add the remaining water, sugar, and melted
butter to the yeast.

Mix the ingredients well with a spoon until a soft, spongy dough
is formed.  Cover the bowl loosely with a warm, damp cloth, and
return it to the warm, draft-free spot until the dough again doubles
in volume, about 45 minutes.

Preheat your oven to 350 F.

When the dough has risen, place it on a lightly floured surface
and divide it into six equal parts.  With a lightly floured rolling
pin, roll each part into a flat round about 1/4 inch thick.

Place 2 or 3 rounds on each of two or three cookie sheets.  Rub
the surface of the rounds lightly with cool water, and sprinkle each
with 1/2 teaspoon sesame seeds, or other topping.  The water will
basically help the toppings to adhere to the rounds when baked.

Bake the rounds in the oven on the bottom rack for about 20
minutes or until the breads are a pale golden brown.  (Bake breads in
"shifts" if oven size does not allow entire recipe to be baked at
once.)

With a spatula, transfer the breads to a wire rack to cool.
Breads will keep several days if stored in a dry, air-tight place.

Source: Great Chefs of New Orleans, Tele-record Productions
Box 71112, New Orleans, Louisiana - 1983
Chef Willy Coln, Willy Coln's Restaurant, New Orleans
:
:

