Title: Le Carre d'Agneau Roti a la Fleur de Thym
Categories: Meats, Masterchefs, New york
Yield: 4 servings
-- chopped
2 ts Rosemary, fresh, chopped
-- OR
1/2 ts Rosemary, dried
1 c  Wine, white, dry
2 c  Stock, lamb **  OR
2 c  Stock, veal
Watercress, sprigs
-- (garnish)
2    Lamb, (racks - about 2
-- pounds each), Frenched,
-- (reserve blade bones and
-- trimmings for Stock)
2 tb Thyme, fresh, chopped OR
1 1/2 ts Thyme, dried
1 tb Oil, vegetable
1 md Onion, coarsely chopped
1    Carrot, coarsely chopped
1    Celery, stalk, coarsely
** Recipes for these ingredients can be found elsewhere in this
database.

Preheat the oven to 450 F. Trim the lamb, leaving about 1/4 inch
of fat, and score the fat in a crisscross pattern.  Wrap any exposed
bone ends with aluminum foil.  Season both sides with salt and pepper
and rub in half of the thyme.

Heat the vegetable oil in a large heavy oven-proof skillet over
medium-high heat.  Add lamb, fat side down.  Saute, shaking pan
occasionally to avoid the meat from sticking, until lightly golden
(about 2 minutes.) Turn the lamb and lightly brown the other side.
Turn again, fat side down.

Place the skillet in the oven and lower heat to 400 F. Roast for
10 minutes.  Remove the racks and set aside.  Pour off any excess fat.

Add the onion, carrot, celery and remaining thyme and rosemary
to the skillet and return racks to the pan fat side up.  Roast 12 to
15 minutes longer for medium rare, then transfer racks to a work
surface and place the skillet over medium-high heat.

Add white wine to the skillet and reduce slightly, scraping up
any browned bits in the pan.  Add the stock and cook until very
lightly thickened (about 15 minutes.) Carve lamb into individual
chops and arrange on heated serving plates.  Strain stock mixture;
degrease and season to taste with salt and pepper.  Pour the sauce
over the lamb and garnish with watercress sprigs.  Serve immediately.
Source:  New York's Master Chefs, Bon Appetit Magazine
:  Written by Richard Sax, Photographs by Nancy McFarland
:  The Knapp Press, Los Angeles, 1985

Chef:   Jean-Jacques Rachou, La Cote Basque Restaurant, New York

