Title: Lebanese Couscous Risotto with Carrots and Snow Peas
Categories: Side dish, Question?
Yield: 4 servings
2 tb Olive oil
1/4 c  Red onion(s), minced
1 c  Lebanese couscous
-(about 1/2 lb)
1/4 c  Dry white wine
2 tb Butter
1/4 c  Grated Parmesan cheese
-plus more for serving
2 tb Flat-leaf parsley
-finely chopped
Salt and pepper to taste
1 md Red bell pepper
1/2 c  Baby lima beans
-fresh or frozen
1/2 lb Thin asparagus, trimmed
-cut into 1" lengths
2 md Carrots, thinly sliced
2 oz Haricot verts
-or green beans, trimmed
-cut into 1" lengths
3 oz Snow peas, strings removed
1 qt Chicken stock
-or canned low-sodium broth
1. roast the bell pepper directly over a gas flame or under a
broiler, as close to the heat as possible, turning often, until
charred all over. Transfer the pepper to a paper bag and let steam
for 10 minutes. Scrape off the blackened skin and remove the stem,
seeds and ribs. Cut the pepper into -inch dice.

2. Bring a medium saucepan of salted water to a boil. Add the lima
beans and blanch over moderately high heat until just tender, about 6
minutes for fresh and 3 minutes for frozen. Using a slotted spoon,
transfer to a colander, rinse with cold water, and drain thoroughly;
transfer to a bowl. Repeat the process with the asparagus, carrots,
haricots verts, and snow peas, cooking each until tender, about 3
minutes for the asparagus, carrots and haricot verts and 2 minutes
for the snow peas.

The recipe can be prepared to this point up to 6 hours ahead; cover
the vegetables and let stand at room temperature.

3. Bring the chicken stock just to a boil in a medium saucepan; keep
warm. Heat the olive oil in a large nonreactive saucepan. Add the red
onion and cook over moderate heat, stirring, until translucent, about
4 minutes. Add the couscous and stir to coat. Add the wine and simmer
until evaporated, about 2 minutes. Add  cup ofthe warm stock and
cook, stirring occasionally until absorbed, about 4 minutes. Continue
adding the stock cup at a time, stirring occasionally until it is
absorbed before adding more. The couscous is done when it is tender
but still slightly chewy, about 55 minutes total cooking time.

4. Add the blanched vegetables and roasted pepper to the couscous and
stir over moderate heat until warmed through. Remove from the heat,
stir in the butter,  cup Parmesan, and the parsley; season with salt
and pepper.

5. Spoon the couscous risotto into warmed shallow bowls or soup
plates. Serve at once, passing additional Parmesan at the table.

Food and Wine April 1995
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   04-18-95

