Title: Lemon Lentils with Curried Shrimp
Categories: Seafood, Vegetables
Yield: 6 servings
MMMMM--------------------------LENTILS-------------------------------
-minced (about 2 tsp)
3 1/2 c  Chicken stock
2    Bay leaves
1/2 sm Onion(s), minced
1 md Garlic clove(s), minced
Salt and pepper to taste
Juice of 1 large lemon
-(about 1 tbs)
3 tb Cilantro, coarsely chopped
1/4 c  Plus 1 tbs corn oil
1 md Onion(s), sliced
1 lb Dried green
-or brown lentils
-picked over and washed
2    2" pieces cinnamon stick
1/2 ts Cayenne
3/4 ts Ginger, peeled and minced
Peel of 1 large lemon
MMMMM------------------------SHRIMP CURRY-----------------------------
4 tb Butter
4    Thick scallions
-mince white and green
-parts separately
1 tb Curry powder
1/3 c  Heavy cream
Juice of 1 lime (1 tbs)
Pepper to taste
3 tb Cilantro, coarsely chopped
1 1/2 lb Large shrimp (about 36)
2 c  Water
5    Black peppercorns
1 sm Stalk celery
1 sm Bay leaf
Few drops white vinegar
Salt to taste
1/3    All-purpose flour
1/2 ts Cayenne
Lentils:

In a 5-qt. Dutch oven, heat  cup of the oil and add the sliced onions.
Saut, stirring often, over medium heat until onions are wilted. Stir
in lentils, cinnamon sticks, cayenne, ginger and lemon peel and cook,
stirring often, for about 5 minutes. Add chicken stock and bay leaves
and bring to a boil. Lower heat, cover, and simmer for 15 minutes.

Meanwhile, heat remaining oil in a small skillet. Add minced onions,
garlic, salt and pepper and saut, stirring occasionally, over low heat
until the onions begin to brown slightly. Set aside.

After 15 minutes, when lentils are partly cooked, remove and discard
cinnamon sticks and bay leaves. Stir in onion-garlic mixture and the
lemon juice and continue to simmer for 10-15 minutes more or until
lentils are tender and still maintain their shape. Add additional
stock if lentils seem too dry. Stir in the cilantro. Set lentils
aside while preparing shrimp or prepare lentils 1 day in advance and
add a few tablespoons of water when reheating them before serving.

Shrimp Curry:

Peel shrimp and reserve shells. Place shrimp on a plate lined with a
paper towel. Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate until needed.
This can be done several hours ahead.

In a 2-qt. saucepan, add shrimp shells, water, peppercorns, celery,
bay leaf and vinegar. Add salt to taste and bring to a boil, simmer,
uncovered, for 15-20 minutes. Strain into a measuring cup and set
aside. In a plastic bag, mix the flour and cayenne. Take off 1 tbs
and set aside. Place the shrimp in the bag and shake to coat evenly.
shake the shrimp off to remove excess flour and place on a wire rack
for 10 minutes to set the coating.

In a 12-inch skillet, heat butter until very hot. Add the shrimp in
one layer and cook over high heat for 1 minute. Turn and saut for
another minute. Transfer shrimp to a plate as they are cooked and set
aside. The shrimp should be slightly undercooked.

Reduce heat to medium and in the same skillet add the white part of
the scallions only, reserving the green tops, and saut, stirring, for
1 minute. Add the curry powder and the reserve tablespoon of
cayenne-flour and stir. Add the reserved shrimp stock and bring to a
boil. Lower heat, add the cream and simmer until bubbly. REturn
shrimp to the skillet and cook, stirring, for about 1 minute, or
until heated through. Add the lime and the green scallion tops and
adjust the seasoning.

Spoon shrimp into the center of a large serving platter and surround
them with the rewarmed lentils. Garnish with  cilantro.

The Versatile Grain
and the
Elegant Bean
by Sheryl and Mel London
ISBN 0-671-76106-4
pg 372-373
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   03-27-95

