Title: Louis XVI - Marie Antoinette Hotel
Categories: Information, Masterchefs, New orleans
Yield: 4 servings
1 x  No Ingredients
Chef Daniel Bonnot is an engaging Frenchman who trained in his
native country as well as in England before setting sail for
Caribbean shores. There French haute cuisine, British formality and
Island Creole spices shaped his philosophy, and eventually he chose
the culinary melting pot of New Orleans as the perfect forum for his
work. The elegant Louis XVI restaurant in the Marie Antoinette Hotel
allows his delicious creations to be served with the proper elan, so
that the entire dining experience is one of pampered luxury.

In this delightful ambience Chef Bonnot's cooking is neither
snobbish nor contrived.  He takes as much care and as much pride in
his hearty garlic soup, thickened with day-old bread, as he does in
the intricate and complicated fish in puff pastry with two mousses.
This is the mark of a sensitive and sensible practitioner of the
culinary arts.

Chef Bonnot is a student as well as a teacher.  He imparts his
wisdom to his kitchen brigade, but he also does his homework on
current trends in food and the history of classic works.  He refuses
to stagnate or to accept the status quo.  Bonnot has a solid
foundation in cooking, and he can embellish his works as easily with
imported fresh truffles and foie gras as he can with local redfish
and crawfish. If you approach cooking these recipes as he does, you
will enjoy the work as well as the completed dish.

Menu:

Cream of Garlic Soup
(Creamy chicken broth with garlic.)

Salade Tiede
(A salad of Romaine, Endive, and Watercress in a raspberry
vinaigrette dressing with garlic-French bread croutons.)

Redfish en Croute aux Deux Mousses
(Redfish cooked in puff pastry served with spinach and
salmon mousses, and a white wine sauce.)

Paris Brest
(Basic cream puff pastry and filling.)

Source: Great Chefs of New Orleans, Tele-record Productions
Box 71112, New Orleans, Louisiana - 1983
Chef Daniel Bonnot, Louis XVI Restaurant,
Marie Antoinette Hotel, New Orleans
:
:
:

