Title: Mike's Monster Spaghetti Sauce
Categories: Pasta, Salsa/sauce
Yield: 1 servings
1 sm Can sliced olives
2 sm Cans Mushrooms (pieces and
-stems
2 lb Lean ground hamburger
1 c  Red wine
Garlic powder
1 pk Spaghetti Sauce Mix (any
-kind)
Most of these require:
1 cn (6 oz) Tomato paste -AND_
3 cn (18 oz) water
1 ts Butter
1. Prepare the spaghetti sauce mix per the directions on the packet.
Usually you will mix the contents of the packet with the tomato paste,
water, and butter then simmer for 20 minutes, stirring occasionally.
Use a large (4 qt) saucepan. A 3 quart pan isn't quite  big enough
for the remaining ingredients.

2. While the sauce is simmering, brown the hamburger. Drain the fat
from the hamburger.

3. When the sauce is done and the hamburger is browned, mix the
olives, mushrooms, hamburger, and wine with the sauce. Drain the
water from the olive and mushroom cans before adding them to the
sauce. Cover and simmer for at least 20 minutes. Stir occasionally.
Add garlic to taste.

Comments - The choice of spaghetti sauce mix doesn't matter too much;
it is just a convenient way of getting all the spices you need. I
like the hamburger broken up, so I microwave it 2 or three minutes
then take it out, drain it and break it up; I repeat until the
hamburger is done. Some people may like the hamburger in chunks, but
the sauce doesn't penetrate into the hamburger so I find the chunks
dry and tasteless. Someone suggested using spicy sausage instead of
hamburger, because it already has spices mixed in. I tried it once
and it wasn't very successful, but you may like it. You can use
chopped olives instead of sliced ones. You can also use fresh
mushrooms, or dried mushrooms. You can try cooking fresh mushrooms in
butter and garlic before adding them to the sauce; that sounds very
good but I haven't tried it. The wine is a major component of the
taste. Any hearty red wine should be ok. I have been using a Cabernet
Sauvignon and that has worked out well. I have also tried Burgandy,
but I didn't like that as much as the Cabernet. You can add other
spices. Basil and oregano are good in spaghetti sauce, but don't add
too much. The spaghetti sauce gets better the longer it cooks. I cook
the sauce the day before and refrigerate it overnight. I simmer it
for 20 or 30 more minutes before serving. You can add more wine if
the sauce gets too thick.

:
Recipe By

Date: 04-08-95 (69) Recipes
From: Marjorie Scofield

