Title: Morel Mushroom Sauce
Categories: Salsa/sauce, Question?
Yield: 1 batch
1/4 c  Brandy
3/4 c  Heavy cream
2 tb Glace de viande (opt)
2 tb Lemon juice
Salt and pepper to taste
3/4 lb Fresh morel mushrooms or
3 oz Dried morel mushrooms
-soaked in
3 c  Boiling water
2 tb Butter
3/4 c  Beef stock (opt)
1. Preheat oven to 400F. If using dried morels, put them in a bowl and
cover with the boiling water. Cover and let soak until soft, about 30
minutes. Rub the morels in the soaking water to release any grit, then
transfer them to a plate. Let the soaking liquid settle for a few
minutes, then carefully pour it into a saucepan, leaving the grit
behind. Boil the liquid until reduced to 1 cup, 7-8 minutes.

2. melt 1 tbs of the butter in a large skillet over moderate heat.
Add the fresh morels to the pan and cook until they release their
juices. Pour the juices into a glass measure and add enough beef
stock to equal 1 cup.

3. Add the remaining tbs butter to the pan and cook the fresh morels
over high heat until slightly crisped, about 4 minutes.
Alternatively, saut the reconstituted morels in the full 2 tbs butter.

4. Slowly pour the brandy into the pan and ignite carefully; swirl
the pan until the flames subside. Using a slotted spoon, transfer the
morels to a plate. Return the skillet to the heat and add the
reserved morel liquid, the cream, glace de viande, and 1 tbs of the
lemon juice. Boil until slightly thickened, 2-3 minutes. Season with
salt and pepper and remove from the heat.

The sauce can be prepared to this point up to 1 day ahead. Cover and
refrigerate the sauce and morels separately.

5. Bring the sauce to a simmer over moderate heat. Stir in the
morels*. Season with the remaining 1 tbs lemon juice and salt and
pepper.

Serve over beef tenderloin, steak or other meats.

* Add any accumulated meat juices to the sauce.

Note: Glace de viande is a highly concentrated meat stock. It is
available frozen in many specialty shops and by mail from D'Artagnan
1-800-327-8246.

Food and Wine April 1995
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   04-18-95

