Title: Mushroom Varieties
Categories: Information, Mushroom
Yield: 1 info  There are hundreds of varieties of edible mushrooms and other fungi
in the world. Here is a selection from the coolers of Aux Dlices Bois
with serving suggestions.

1. Black Trumpet Black and horn-shaped. The taste is lively, even
fruity. Dramatic in cream sauce or risotto.

2. Bluefoot Streaked with violet. Tasty stems. Good with fish. Adds
texture to polenta and egg dishes.

3. Blue Oyster Gray-tinged and mildly flavored. Try in salads dressed
with hazelnut oil.

4. Cauliflower Very fragrant. Adds crunch to sauted vegetables or to
fish filets.

5. Cep Also called cpes or porcini, these are fat mushrooms with an
equally fat flavor. Grill with truffle oil, or layer with sliced
potatoes.

6. Chanterelle Almost golden. Delicate and delicious sauted with
hearty chops or roasts.

7. Charbonnier The cap appears dusted with charcoal. Rich flavor.
Stuff a chicken with these, or use them whole as a garnish.

8. Chicken of the Woods Bright yellow-orange. Firm in texture, and
thus good for grilling.

9. Crimini The hearty earth-mother version of hom-hum white buttons.
Great in lasagna, in salad, or stuffed.

10. Enoki Size-wise, the microchip among mushrooms. Has surprising
presence when added to salads and clear broths.

11. Fairy Ring Tiny and delicate, but with good flavor. Saut them and
serve with roast veal.

12. Hedgehog Pumpkin-colored and bristly like its namesake. Almost
fruity taste, with plenty of staying power for stews.

13. Huitlacoche Sweet and buttery, with a hint of cinnamon; weds well
with Mexican dishes, omelets.

14. Lactaire Intriguing shades of rust-orange and copper-green. Deep,
woodsy, slightly bitter flavor. Enriches soups; stands up to roasts.

15. Lobster Firm; lobster-red in color. Marinate with oil and
tarragon, char and slice like steak.

16. Morel Shaped like a half-open parasol, with pocked skin that
drinks in cream sauces. Big aroma, especially the dried ones.

17. Pompon Large and funny-looking, like a pompon. Its mild flavor
makes it ideal with seafood.

18. Portobello Another subastantial relative of the button. King of
the grill  and makes great sandwiches with goat cheese and sundried
tomatoes.

19. Shiitake Brown caps and stems. Versatile, with a woodsy flavor
that seems to go with everything.

20. White Trumpet Related to the oyster mushroom. Delicately
flavored. Toss into salads, use as garnish, or gloss with butter and
tarragon.

21. Yellowfoot Chanterelle Similar to the black trumpet, but
yellow-brown in color. Try in pasta sauce (with black trumpets for
contrast).
Saveur Magazine
Mar/Apr 1995
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   03-22-95

