Title: No Cream, All-Fruit 'ice Creams'
Categories: Healthy, Fruit
Yield: 1 servings
See below
The Secret's In the Banana:

Rich, creamy, flavorful desserts that taste like they're made with
heavy cream and egg yolks are easy to make, using bananas as a base.
One hint: The riper the banana, the stronger its flavor, so use the
ripest bananas with fruits that can stand up to robust flavor
competition, like strawberries.

When using flavor enhancers like vanilla, cinnamon or ginger, for
example, use less-ripe bananas that won't overpower them.

If frozen bananas are called for in a recipe, simply peel the
bananas, cut into two-inch chunks and coat with lemon juice. Fold
them tightly in plastic wrap, then freeze. Freezing brings out this
fruit's amazingly sweet taste and creamy texture.

To make fruit "ice creams", following above directions for freezing
the bananas. Following the same directions, also freeze hulled
strawberries, pitted cherries, peeled and pitted peaches or mangoes,
or almost any other fruit (with the exception of raspberries, which
have too many seeds and are too watery). When firm, puree the frozen
banana and other fresh fruit in two batches. Combine the batches in
one bowl and stir in flavorings if you wish. Place the mixture in a
cake tin and refreeze to harden slightly. Serve freshly made. For
special combinations, try the following recipes.

STRAWBERRY 'ICE CREAM': 1 pint ripe strawberries, hulled and sliced; 2
large or 3 small very ripe bananas, peeled and sliced; juice of 1/2
lemon.

HONEY MANGO 'ICE CREAM': 2 very ripe mangoes, peeled and pitted; 2
large underripe bananas, peeled, sliced; juice of 1/2 lemon; 2-3
tbsp. honey; pinch ginger.

KIWI VANILLA 'ICE CREAM': 6 kiwis, peeled and sliced; juice of 1
lemon; 2 large underripe bananas, peeled and sliced; 2 tsp. vanilla;
1 tbsp. honey.

NOTE: The juicier the fruit, the longer the "ice cream" will take to
harden, but all these concoctions will scoop into ice-cream cones if
you scrape a scooper across their surface as you would when serving a
fruit ice or sherbet.

3/29/95
Typed for you by Marjorie Scofield

: From Prevention Magazine   7/94
Recipe By

Date: 04-05-95 (159) Fido:
From: Marjorie Scofield
Cooking

