Title: Pesto Torta
Categories: Appetizers, Cheese/eggs
Yield: 10 servings
-tightly packed
1/2 c  Fresh parsley
1/3 c  Pine nuts
-lightly toasted and cooled
2    Garlic clove(s)
1/4 ts Salt
1/2 c  Olive oil
3/4 c  Freshly grated Parmesan
2 pk (8oz ea) cream cheese
-at room temp
1 lb (4 sticks) butter plus
2 tb Butter
-at room temp
2 oz Sun-dried tomatoes
-(not packed in oil)
2 c  Fresh basil leaves
With an electric mixer, beat the cream cheese and the 1 pound butter
together until smooth and creamy. Divide it into six equal portions.

Soak the dried tomatoes in warm water for 20 minutes. Drain them in a
sieve and then dry them on paper towels. Cut them into small pieces.

In a food processor, process the basil, parsley, pine nuts, garlic and
salt. Add the olive oil and process for 20 seconds. Scrape down the
sides of the bowl. Add the Parmesan and the remaining 2 tbs. butter
and pulse the machine a few times until blended. Let the mixture
drain in a sieve for at least  hour before using; it should be as dry
as possible.

Cut an 18-inch square of cheesecloth. Moisten it with water, wring it
dry, and smoothly line a 6-inch springform pan with it, draping the
excess over the rim of the pan.

Now take a rubber spatula and spread 1/6th of the cream cheese
mixture in the bottom of the lined pan. "Frost" the cream cheese
mixture with of the drained pesto, making sure the pesto makes it all
the way to the sides of the pan. Top the pesto with another 1/6th of
the cream cheese. On top of that layer, scatter  the dried tomato
bits, once again making sure that they reach the sides of the pan.
(The different layers need to show when the torta is unmolded.) Cover
them with another layer of cream cheese mixture. Repeat this process
until the pan is filled; the last, top layer should be cream cheese.
If your pan or mold is wider than 6 inches, you can make fewer layers.

Tuck the ends of the cheesecloth up around the torta and gently press
them down to compact the mixture slightly. Chill overnight.

An hour before serving, release the torta from the springform pan and
gently unwrap it. (If you've used another pan or mold, invert it onto
a serving dish and gently remove it from the mold. Then unwrap it.)
Put the torta on a serving plate. If you like, decorate the top of
the torta with more snipped dried tomatoes.

You can freeze the torta, still in its pan, in plastic wrap and a
tightly sealed plastic bag. It will keep for 2 months. Thaw it in the
refrigerator overnight.

Serve with assorted crackers.

Makes one 6-inch torta, enough to serve 10 to 12.

Beat This! by Ann Hodgman ISBN 1-881527-21-2 pg 150-152
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   03-20-95

