Title: Potage au Potiron
Categories: Soup/stew, Masterchefs, New york
Yield: 6 servings
6 c  Stock, chicken **
Salt (to taste)
Pepper, white (to taste)
1 ea Bread, French, 10" long,
-- thinly sliced OR
2 ea Bread, rolls, with crust
-- thinly sliced
1/2 c  Cream, whipping
1 ea Pumpkin, ripe, 8 to 10
-- inches in diameter
8 tb Butter, unsalted
1 md Onion, chopped
2/3 c  Wine, white, dry
2 sm Turnips, white, peeled
-- and sliced
1 ea Carrot, peeled, sliced
Cut off and reserve the top of the pumpkin.  Use a large spoon or
melon baller to scoop out and discard all of the seeds and strings.
Scrape out the pumpkin flesh without breaking through the shell.  You
should have about 6 cups of pumpkin pieces.  Set aside the hollow
pumpkin and lid.

In a large casserole, heat 2 tablespoons of butter over medium
heat. Add the onion and saute, stirring often, until softened and
very lightly golden, about 6 minutes.  Add the wine and simmer for 1
minute longer. Add the turnips, carrot, reserved pumpkin flesh, and
enough Chicken Stock to cover solids.  Season lightly with salt and
pepper. Cover and bring to a boil.

Meanwhile, cut the bread slices into thin wedges about 1/2-inch
long. In a large skillet, heat 3 tablespoons of butter over medium
heat. Add half of the bread pieces and toss constantly in butter
until lightly golden, about 5 minutes.  Add these croutons to the
soup. Saute the remaining uncooked croutons in the remaining butter,
set aside for garnish.

Boil soup gently, covered, for 1 hour.  Puree mixture in a
processor or blender until smooth.  Return the pureed soup to a clean
saucepan, stir in the cream, and bring to a simmer.  Thin, if
necessary, with additional stock.  Adjust seasoning with salt and
pepper. Serve soup in pumpkin, passing remaining croutons separately.
Source:  New York's Master Chefs, Bon Appetit Magazine
:  Written by Richard Sax, Photographs by Nancy McFarland
:  The Knapp Press, Los Angeles, 1985

Chef:   Andre Soltner, Lutece Restaurant, New York

