Title: Roberta's Sourdough Rye (Using Manuel's Rye Sour)+
Categories: Breads
Yield: 2 loaves
1/4    Onion, seperated into
-leaves
3/4 c  Manuel's Rye Sour
3/4 c  Warm water
2 c  Rye flour
MMMMM---------------------------BREAD--------------------------------
2 1/2 ts Salt
1/3 c  Warm water
1 tb Caraway seeds
Few drops brown coloring
-such as Kitchen Bouquet
4 ts Dry yeast
2/3 c  Warm water
Starter mixture from above
2 c  Whole-wheat flour
1 1/2 c  White bread flour
Splendid sourdough rye, bright, tangy, with no off-flavor; the bread
is amazingly light.

THE NIGHT BEFORE BAKING DAY: Mix starter, water, and flour and spread
the onion over the top, pushing them down lightly into the dough (the
top of the onion should be poking out slightly for easy removal.)
Cover tightly and leave 12 to 15 hours or more at room temperature.

IN THE MORNING: Dissolve the yeast in the warm water in the bowl of a
tabletop mixer. Remove the onions from the starter mixture. Stir the
flour, salt, and seeds together in one bowl. Add starter mixture to
mixer bowl with the yeast mixture*. Mix a bit then add the flour
mixture. If you have to, add a drizzle more water to the mixing
process. If you need more flour, add white. Add the brown coloring.
Knead the dough for 12 to 15 minutes. Stop the kneading when the
dough is soft or is becoming unpleasantly sticky.

Put dough in clean, greased bowl and turn. Cover and let rise once at
about 80 degrees for 1 1/2 hours. Divide dough into 2 or 3 pieces,
round and let rest for 15 minutes or so, covered with a floured
tea-towel. Shape into hearth style loaves and place on a greased
baking sheet that has been dusted with cornmeal. Let rise again in a
warm place until the dough slowly returns a gently made fingerprint,
about an hour, let rise sufficiently. Slash the loaves in a
tic-tac-toe pattern and place them in a preheated oven (450 degrees
F.) Bake with steam for 10 minutes (see below); reduce heat ot 325
degrees F. and remove skillet. Bake 40 to 50 minutes or until done.

STEAM METHOD: Before placing the bread in the oven you can spray the
bread lightly with water. . Place small heavy skillet in bottom of
oven when turning oven on to preheat. When you open oven to put in
the bread, first pour a cup of boiling water into the frying pan, put
the bread in quickly and close the door.

*Note: Add sourdough-rye mixture after yeast has foamed-start paddle
going at this time till they are well mixed then add the flour
(scant.)

*Another note: I use a baker's stone for this recipe, I recommend it
if you have one. Just remember to preheat the oven for a good half an
hour. I find the steam method unwrkable with this option, however.
Just spray the bread lightly with water before you put it in the oven.

From Laurel's Bread Book typed up, used many times and loved by Mary
Riemerman and her family!
Submitted By MARY RIEMERMAN   On   04-19-95

