Title: Robert Skaer Story We've all got crabs
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 servings
-shore, with houses on each
Side of the road, and one
-vehicle, a pick-up used as
-a fire truck! No raods
To anywhere! I flew in
-(with a partner) to teach
-VBS to the three kids in
Town that week, one of
-whose parents are
-professional crabbers!
-(What DO you
Howdy folks!
As long as we've all got
-crabs (on our minds) I
-thought I'd pass along a
l  Story from last summer, and
-a recipe that has NOTHING
-to do with crabs
To take the curse off the
-whole thing! I was in a
-terrific little town called
Tenekee Springs Alaska. One
-road, paralellinfg the
call crab fisherfolk??) They offered us some free crabs, and took us
out to their boat to select dinner. There were BIG crabs, about
10"-12" across!! We took them back to our digs, and got some muskege
(sp??) water boiled to put them in. Now, I had NEVER cooked crab or
lobster, so we were going by several people's versions of what to do.
Clean first? Cook first? Who knew? Not we! Well, the only thing we
had that would boil water was an old electric skillet about 14"
across. So we boiled the water, I then grabbed the victim from our
sink and threw them in the pan and tried to close the lid. Which was
something of a challenge due to the crab trying to exit said pan!!
After much scrambling and creative use of language, the lid would
close and 25 minutes later, BING! Perfect cooked crab. Now. How to
eat this! We had heard about halving the little critters and cleaning
out the gunk inside, so I tried (with hot-mitts) to do so, and got a
generous portion of boiling-hot "crab butter" all down my front!!
(Crab butter is the fat of the crab, which melts during cooking and
is used by some in place of clarified butter) We finally discovered
that after cooking, all crabs are flip-top models, and ate away!
Since our digs (high atop the slendid one-room St Francis Chapel) had
no running water, I had to walk a quarter mile to get a new pan of
muskege water, past scores of salmonberry bushes that were visited by
bears!! I could just see a hungry ol' bear wandering down for a meal,
and here I come in crab flavored shorts!! But we finally had the best
three-crab meal I have EVER had!! I wish I had a scanner so I could
post the pic of our first cooked crab!

Submitted By JOANN PIERCE   On   03-30-95

