Title: Rosy Seafood Sausage
Categories: Seafood, Appetizers
Yield: 6 sausages
2 tb Pernod
2 tb Fresh lemon juice
1 c  Heavy cream
1 ts Dried tarragon
1 pn Ground nutmeg
1 pn Cayenne
Salt & freshly ground black
Pepper to taste
8 oz Fresh bay scallops, halved
2 lb Salmon fillets
2 c  Water
2 c  Dry white wine
4 tb Unsalted butter
2    Carrots, peeled and minced
2    Ripe tomatoes, seeded &
Chopped
1/2 c  Chopped fresh dill
1/2 c  Fresh bread crumbs
2    Egg whites
Poach the salmon fillets in the wine and water in a large skillet just
until cooked through.  Cool and flake the salmon meat, removing all
the bones.  Refrigerate covered until cold.  Melt the butter in the
skillet over medium-high heat.  Add the carrots and leeks and saute
for 7 minutes. Add the tomatoes and cook for 2 minutes more.  Remove
from heat and stir in the dill and bread crumbs.  Process the salmon
in a food processor fitted with a steel blade until smooth.  Add the
egg whites and process until blended.  Add the Pernod, lemon juice,
and cream and process until very smooth.  Season with the tarragon,
nutmeg, cayenne and salt and pepper to taste.  Remove to a large
mixing bowl. Add the vegetable mixture and the halved bay scallops to
the salmon mixture and stir to combine. Lay out a large sheet of
strong plastic wrap. Shape a sixth of the seafood mixture into a log,
6" long and 1 1/2" wide, in the center of the plastic wrap. Wrap up
very securely and twist each end of the plastic very tightly to make
a mock sausage casing.  Secure the ends with kitchen string if
necessary.  Repeat with the remaining seafood mixture to make 6
sausages. Refrigerate the sausages until firm, about 3 hours.  When
ready to cook, fill a large Dutch oven or stock pot with water and
heat to boiling. Add the sausages, still wrapped in plastic wrap, and
simmer for 15 minutes, turning once halfway through the cooking time.
Remove the sausages from the water.  Unwrap and cut into thin slices.
Serve hot, napped with Tomato Beurre Blanc (see recipe). From The
Silver Palate Good Times Cookbook by Julee Russo & Sheila Lukins.
Submitted By TERRI WOLTMON   On   04-22-95

