Title: Sauerkraut (6 quarts)
Categories: Can/preserv, Vegetables
Yield: 2 servings
No Ingredients Found
If your grandmother made sauerkraut, it is likely that she used this
recipe or one very close to it.  Huge stoneware crocks of sauerkraut
were a common sight in spring houses and cellars on farms in the
past, and farm children were assigned the task of skimming bad kraut
and scum off the tops of these crocks.

Select 15 pounds of firm, green cabbage.  (This will yield about
thirty quarts of shredded cabbage.) Let stand at room temperature for
one day. Wash, quarter, remove cores.  Cabbages should be dry before
grating for sauerkraut.  Shred or cut about the thickness of a dime.
Thoroughly mix 3 Tbsp. plus 2 tsp. salt (use pickling/canning salt)
with each 10 quarts of shredded cabbage.  As each batch is salted,
get ready 4 to 6 quart crocks. Pack the cabbage firmly, but not
tightly, into the crocks, pressing down with a wooden spoon or
paddle. Lay a clean cloth over the cabbage with a plate on top that
fits just inside the crock. It is important that the cabbage is
covered by the tight fitting plate; it may spoil otherwise. Weight
with a stone or a gallon jar filled with water. The weight should be
heavy enough so that the liquid just reaches the bottom of the cover.
To vary the weight, use heavier or lighter stones or fill or empty
the jar as needed as fermentation increases. Allow cabbage to ferment
at room temperature (68 to 72) for 9 to 14 days. (The lower the
temperature, the slower the fermentation.) Change and wash the cloth,
adjust the weight, and skim off the scum daily. Fermentation has
ended when bubbles stop rising to the surface.  Taste at the end of a
week and can when taste suits you. To can your kraut, use hot,
scalded quart jars.  Bring kraut to boil with 3 quarts water.  Pack
lightly into jars, filling spaces with liquid. Process in
boiling-water bath for 15 minutes. Posted by Pat Stockett. Sauerkraut
Chop cabbage until very fine.  Pack in quart jars.  Allow 2 teaspoons
salt to each quart cabbage.  Pour hot water over cabbage, filling
jars to shoulders.  Seal.  Sauerkraut will be ready for use after two
weeks. Mrs. Ethel Hixon, Topeka, KS. Posted by Fred Peters.

Submitted By PAT STOCKETT   On   03-16-95

