Title: Shireen Polo (Steamed Rice with Chicken, Nuts (see dirs))
Categories: Middle east, Poultry, Rice
Yield: 6 servings
1/4 c  Pistachios, unsalted; finely
;chopped
2 tb Pistachios; as above
2 c  Iranian rice; or other white
;uncooked rice, soaked and
;drained
1/4 c  Olive oil
3 lb Chicken; cut into 8 serving
;pieces
1 ts Salt
5 c  Water
1 lg Onion; quartered
4 tb Butter; melted and combined
;with 1 tablespoon of water
Orange peel; of 2 oranges,
;cut into strips 1 inch long
;and 1/8 inch wide.
8 tb Butter; (1/4 pound stick)
3 md Carrot; cut into strips
;about 1 inch long and 1/8
;inch wide
1 c  Blanched almonds, slivered
2 c  Sugar
1 ts Ground saffron; or saffron
;threads pulverized with a
;mortar and pestle or with
;the back of a spoon,
;dissolved in a tbsp. of
;warm water
Name; Steamed Rice with Chicken, Nuts, Orange Peel and Carrots

Blanch the orange peel by dropping it into a small pan of cold
water, bringing it to a boil, then draining it immediately and
running cold water over it.
In a heavy 10 to 12 inch skillet, melt the butter over moderate
heat. When the foam subsides, add the carrots and, stirring
frequently, cook for 10 minutes, or until they are soft but not
brown. Add the orange peel, almonds, sugar and saffron, and reduce
the heat to low. Stir constantly until the sugar dissolves, then
cover tightly and simmer for 30 minutes. Stir in the 1/4 cup of
pistachios and cook for 2 or 3 minutes longer. Set aside.
Meanwhile, bring 6 cups of water to a boil in a heavy 3 to 4 quart
casserole with a tightly fitting lid.  Pour in the rice in a slow ,
thin stream.  Stir once or twice, boil briskly for 5 minutes, then
drain in a sieve.
In a heavy 12 inch skillet, heat the olive oil until a light haze
forms above it.  Pat the chicken dry with paper towels and brown it
in the oil, a few pieces at a time, turning it with tongs and
regulating the heat so that they color richly and evenly without
burning. As they brown, transfer the pieces to a plate.  Pour off and
discard the fat remaining in the skillet and replace the chicken in
the pan. Sprinkle the pieces with the salt and scatter the onion
quarters on top. Pour in the 5 cups of water, bring to a boil over
high heat, cover and simmer over low heat for 30 minutes, or until
the chicken is tender.
While the chicken is simmering, pour the melted butter and water
mixture into the casserole and spread half of the rice evenly over
it. Add 2 cups of the carrot mixture, smooth it to the edges, cover
with the remaining rice and spread the rest of the carrot mixture on
top. Cover tightly and steam for 20 minutes, or until the rice is
tender.
To serve, remove the bones from the chicken breasts and thighs.
Spread half the rice on a heated platter and arrange the chicken over
it. Mound the rest of the rice on top and sprinkle it with the
remaining pistachios.

95 of 116

Source: Time Life Series: Middle Eastern Cooking "circa '69"

MMed by: earl.cravens@salata.com
Submitted By EARL CRAVENS   On   03-24-95

