Title: Smoked Red Bell Pepper Soup
Categories: Soup/stew, Vegetables
Yield: 4 servings
2 ea Stalks celery - diced
1 ea Medium onion - diced
4 ea Sprigs fresh thyme
1 ea Bay leaf
2 c  Whipping cream
Salt and freshly ground
-black pepper
8 ea Medium red bell peppers
-(about 3 lbs.)
6 c  Chicken stock OR canned
-broth (6 cups or more)
1 1/2 lb Whole chicken breasts with
-ribs
1/4 ea Stick butter (2
-tablespoons)
Prepare smoker with hickory chips.  GREASE GRILL RACK and arrange
peppers. Smoke 1-1/2 hours at 150F.  Peel, core and dice red peppers.
Bring 6 cups stock to boil in medium saucepan.  Reduce heat so liquid
is barely shaking. Add chicken and simmer until firm to touch, about
12 minutes. Drain, reserving stock.  Skin and bone chicken, then
dice. Wrap in foil and refrigerate. Melt butter in heavy large
saucepan over medium-low heat. Add celery and onion and cook until
tender, stirring occasionally, about 10 minutes. Add peppers and stir
3 minutes. Add reserved stock, thyme and bay leaf and simmer,
stirring occasionally, until reduced to 4 cups, about 1 hour. Add
cream to soup and simmer until reduced to 4-1/2 cups, about 40
minutes.  Remove thyme and bay leaf.  Puree soup in blender.  [I
always puree before adding whipping cream.]  Strain through sieve
into medium saucepan.  Season with salt and pepper.  Rewarm over low
heat, adding more stock if thinner consistency is desired.  Add diced
chicken and heat through. Serve immediately.

Supposed to serve 4, but the way I make it, it makes about 8
servings. When reducing the stock/pepper mixture, I just cook it for
one hour, even if it's not reduced to 4 cups (it's usually not).  At
that point, I puree it in the blender, and *then* add the cream and
cook for 40 minutes. I find no need to strain the soup, as I peel my
peppers scrupulously and puree the mixture well in the blender. You
can also make this eliminating the chicken entirely, using just a
rich chicken stock or vegetable stock. If you use salted stock, use
unsalted butter. Source: Bon Appetit

per serving:
Approx. Cook Time: Cholesterol per
Calories
grams per serving:
serving: Marks:

Submitted By MICHELLE BASS   On   04-14-95

