Title: Sole a la Catalane
Categories: Seafood, Masterchefs, New york
Yield: 4 servings
-- ounces each), split
-- lengthwise
2 tb Shallot, finely chopped
1/2 c  Wine, white, dry
1 tb Parsley, chopped
1 tb Chives, fresh, chopped
4 md Tomatoes, rips
14 tb Butter, unsalted, cut into
-- pieces, plus more as
-- needed
4 sm Onion, white, thinly
-- sliced
2 ea Sole, fillets, (about 6
Preheat the oven to 300 F. Carefully cut the out core of each
tomato, removing a small, narrow plug and leaving the tomato intact.
Blanch the tomatoes in boiling water for a few seconds; drain under
cold water and slip off their skins.  Cut a lid from the smooth
bottom of each tomato (opposite the core) and set aside.  With a
melon scoop or spoon, carefully hollow out the pulp and seeds from
the tomatoes, leaving a neat shell. Place the tomatoes and their lids
in a small buttered baking dish, sprinkle with salt and pepper, set
aside.

In a small skillet, heat 2 tablespoons of butter and saute the
sliced onions over medium heat until softened but not browned, 5 to 7
minutes. Spoon cooked onions into the hollowed tomatoes, dividing
evenly.

On a work surface, gently flatten the sole fillets, tapping them
with the side of a wide knife blade.  Carefully roll up each fillet,
beginning with the small (tail) end and with the smooth, shiny
skinned surface on the inside.  Lightly butter a heat-proof shallow
baking dish in which the fillets will fit compactly.  Scatter shallot
into the dish, then arrange rolled fish fillets over shallot.  Salt
and pepper the fish lightly and pour wine over all.  Cover the dish
with buttered parchment or waxed paper, buttered side down.  Place
the pan over medium heat and bring almost to a boil.  Place the pan
of fish and the pan of tomatoes in the oven. Bake until fillets are
just cooked through, 6 to 8 minutes.

DO NOT OVERCOOK.

Remove the pans from the oven.  With a slotted spatula, lift each
fillet, draining all of the liquid back into the pan, and place each
fillet upright in a tomato.  Place the pan of fish-cooking liquid
over high heat and boil the liquid until it's reduced to a few
tablespoons of syrupy liquid.  Reduce the heat to very low.  Whisk in
the remaining 12 tablespoons of butter, 1 or 2 pieces at a time,
adding more only when the previous addition has become creamy and
smooth. Strain this sauce into a small bowl, stir in the parsley and
chives and season to taste with salt and pepper.

Place each stuffed tomato on a warm serving plate.  Spoon some
of the sauce over each fillet and around each tomato.  Gently replace
the lids and serve immediately.
Source:  New York's Master Chefs, Bon Appetit Magazine
:  Written by Richard Sax, Photographs by Nancy McFarland
:  The Knapp Press, Los Angeles, 1985

Chef:   Andre Soltner, Lutece Restaurant, New York

