Title: Sprouting Grains and Legumes
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 info  Equipment: All you need is a large jar, preferable one that is not
round, so it will not roll off the kitchen counter. Large-size square
mason jars are perfect. For a cover, you'll need a piece of
cheesecloth and a strong rubber band with which to fasten the
cheesecloth to the mouth of the jar.

1. Spread the grains or legumes out on a large baking sheet or in a
large pie pan. pick over the grains or legumes and remove any foreign
matter.

2. Put between one and four tablespoons of the seeds into the jar and
fill three-quarters full with lukewarm water. Cover the jar with the
cheesecloth and place the rubber band around the mouth to hold it in
place. Shake the jar a few times and then drain the water. Fill the
jar partially again with fresh lukewarm water and soak overnight with
the jar in an upright position. The seeds will begin to swell.

3. The next day, drain the water and rinse well, swishing the seeds
around in fresh lukewarm water. Repeat two or three times, then drain
the water completely.

4. Place the jar on its side and keep it in a warm, dark place.
(Temperature should be about 70F.) Repeat the rinsing process two or
three times each day. Keep the jars near the sink for easy access and
cover them with a towel, making sure to keep the cheesecloth end open
for ventilation.

5. Repeat the process for about three to five days, until the sprouts
are developed and about one and a half to tow inches long. With most
seeds, you will begin to see the results at about the third day.
Other seeds may take even less time.

6. When the sprouts are the proper length, place the jar in direct
light for the last few hours in order to develop the chlorophyll.

7. Remove the sprouts from the growing jar, place them in a plastic
container (uncovered) and refrigerate. They store well for several
days, but it is suggested that every day they be rinsed under cold
water and then returned to the refrigerator.

Some Handy Tips About Sprouting

* When you choose seeds or berries for sprouting, make sure they are
"food store" quality. Seeds that are used for planting may contain
chemicals.

* Don't worry about the hulls of the seeds. They provide fiber for
your diet.

* Sprouts are kept in darkness until the last few hours because they
tend to turn bitter when grown in direct light. Put them in direct
light only for the last few hours.

* To keep the crop from failing, make sure the water is thoroughly
drained each time you rinse the sprouts. Keep the jars at a
forty-five degree angle pointing down in order to drain excess water.

* If at any time, you see mold or fuzz on the seeds, remove and
discard the affected ones.

* After you have measured the  amount that you want to sprout, you
will probably have some seeds left over. These will keep well in a
sealed container in a cool, dry place.

* Don't try to accelerate the sprouting process by using hot water or
by trying to grow sprouts in a hot place; 60-70F. is quite perfect.

* If your kitchen is sunny and there is no dark place, you can cover
the jar with several layers of a folded towel to keep the sprouts in
the dark, but make sure that you leave the cheesecloth-covered end
open.

The Versatile Grain
and the
Elegant Bean
by Sheryl and Mel London
ISBN 0-671-76106-4
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   03-19-95

