Title: Sweet & Sour Stuffed Cabbage
Categories: Low cal/fat
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM----------------EAT MORE, WEIGH LESS;ORNISH---------------------
1/2 ts Grated nutmeg
2 c  Vegetable stock (I used the
-cabbage water)
1 lb Mushrooms, chopped coarsely
-(about 6 cups)
3 c  Canned pureed tomatoes
1/2 c  Lemon juice
1 c  Brown sugar (I used 2/3
-cup)
1/2 c  Dried porcini mushroom (I
-used porcini, oyster &
-shiitake)
2 c  Rice
2 md Green cabbages
1 lg Onion
1    Onion, chopped
2    Egg whites
-salt and pepper  (I
-omitted)
Saok the porcini in 1 cup of hot water for 30 minutes.  Drain and
strain the porcini water through a cheesecloth-lined strainer.
Reserve the liquid. Chop the porcini.

Soak the rice in cold water for 15 minutes.  Core the cabbage with a
sharp knife.  Bring a large kettle of salted water to a boil.  Drop
in the whole cabbage and cook for 5 to 10 minutes.  Reove the cabbage
with 2 large spoons and place it in a strainer. When cool enough to
handle, remove the largest leaves.  You will need about 16 to 18
large leaves.

Drain the rice.  Quarter the large onion and place it with the egg
whites into the container of a food processor and puree.  (I left the
onion out of the stuffing, using only one onion, so I left out this
step). Combine this onion puree with the rice, spices and soaked and
chopped dried mushrooms.

Bring 1 cup of stock and the strained reserved porcini liquids to a
boil in a large saute pan.  Add the chopped fresh mushrooms and cook,
stirring over high heat until all the liquid is absorbed.  Add the
mushrooms to the rice mixture.

Place 2 heaping tablespoons of filling on each cabbage leaf and roll
up, tucking in the sides.  Fasten with toothpicks.  In a deep kettle,
bring the tomatoes, lemon juice, brown sugar, chopped onion and 1 cup
of stock up to a simmer.  Add the cabbage rolls.   Cover and simmer
for 1 1/2 to 2 hours until the rice is cooked (doesn't take anywhere
near this long). Baste the cabbage occasionally.  Adjust the sweet
and sour ratio and season with salt and pepper.

Serving size = 1 1/2 cups 240 calories 0.9 grams fat 0 milligrams
cholesterol 498 milligrams sodium without added salt

Posted on Usenet by Stephanie da Silva

Source: INET9403.TXT, GEnie Food & Wine RoundTable

MM by MMCONV and Sylvia Steiger, GEnie THE.STEIGERS, CI$ 71511,2253,
Internet sylvia.steiger@lunatic.com, moderator of GT Cookbook and
FringeNet Lowfat & Luscious echoes
Submitted By SYLVIA STEIGER   On   03-24-95

