Title: Trey Yuen
Categories: Information, Masterchefs, New orleans
Yield: 1 servings
1 x  No Ingredients
Trey Yuen is the province of the Wong brother: John, James, Joe,
Tommy and Frank.  When all are presiding over their woks in their
custom kitchen, it is a formidable lineup of Chinese cooking talent.
Smoke and flames rise all about them as the reach into their exotic
condiment tray to create savory dishes from all areas of China.  When
the smoke clears, intricately arranged plates, beautiful to look at,
are ready to be transported into the dining room.  When sampled, they
are as kind to the palate as they are to the eye.

Although many who love to eat Chinese food are reluctant to try
to cook it, the Wongs assure us that the techniques are manageable
and the ingredients not too difficult to find --- and certainly worth
the trouble. Following the recipes with attention to detail will
assure proper results, even without the special ovens and
high-temperature woks available to the Wongs.

Unlike the other menus in the book there is no dessert presented
by the Wong brothers.  Traditionally the Chinese do not end the meal
with a prepared sweet, as sugar is frequently used in the cooking of
the procession of savory dishes that make up the menu.

A quick trip to a Chinese market or the gourmet section of the
supermarket will be necessary to get the basics.  From there, just
get into the kitchen and enjoy cooking, as well as eating, Chinese.

Menu:

Hot and Sour Soup (Zesty, spicy mixture of mushrooms, beef, scallions
and other savory
ingredients that thrill the palate with a bouquet of flavors.)

Spring Rolls (Pork, mushrooms, garlic and ginger filled deep fried
rolls.)

Szechuan Spicy Beef (Wine enhanced sliced beef with bountiful
vegetables in a unique
and flavorful sauce.)

Kung Ming Shrimp (Shrimp and mushrooms sauteed in garlic and ginger
served with
fried rice noodles.)

Whole Trout in Sweet and Sour Sauce (Tender sauteed trout in a
traditional Chinese sweet and sour
sauce.)

Source: Great Chefs of New Orleans, Tele-record Productions
:    Box 71112, New Orleans, Louisiana - 1983
:    Chefs The Wong Brothers, Trey Yuen Restaurant, New Orleans

