Title: Versailles
Categories: Information, Masterchefs, New orleans
Yield: 1 servings
1 x  No ingredients
Gunter Preuss is the chef/owner of Versailles, the restaurant
where he fashions superlative food for his loyal clientele.  Hotel
training and the experience of running large kitchens has made him
one of the most versatile chefs in New Orleans, and he enjoys
improvising to suit the discriminating diner.

His career having taken him to many countries and more cities,
Chef Preuss chose New Orleans as his permanent home because of the
charm of the city and the culinary awareness of its citizens.
Regular patrons know that if they don't choose any dish on his
extensive menu, they can request something special and he will create
it on the spot.

Chef Preuss proceeds with a dish in a series of small but
important steps, and neglect of one can alter the finished dish --
but this is not to say that the recipes are difficult.  They simply
require a certain amount of care and time, and the best ingredients
are, of course, a must. In short, to achieve Chef Preuss's results,
you must apply the Chef's stringent standards of hard work and select
provender.

Sophisticated food that combines the European roots of the Chef
and the bounteous provender of the area are the components of
Versailles' cuisine, but the combination transcends the individual
parts, as you will find when you prepare these recipes.

Menu:

Oysters Lafitte
(Tender juicy oysters broiled in a luscious combination of
creamy onion garlic sauce and a wine and tarragon sauce.)

Stuffed Cornish Game Hens
(Deboned game hens stuffed with a creamy wine and garlic based
bread crumb stuffing and topped with a shallots and wine sauce.)

Potato Balls
(Mini balls of boiled potato tossed with butter and herbs.)

Strawberry Crepes
(The flavors of lemon and orange add a zesty touch to delicious
strawberry filled crepes.)

Source: Great Chefs of New Orleans, Tele-record Productions
:    Box 71112, New Orleans, Louisiana - 1983
:    Chef Gunter Preuss, Versailles Restaurant, New Orleans

