Title: Vienna Memories-Gugelhupf+
Categories: Cake/cookie, Aust/german
Yield: 1 cake
2 1/2 ts Orange zest
1/2 ts Vanilla
1/4 ts Salt
2 c  Sifted flour
4    Egg whites
1/8 c  Blanched whole almonds
Confectioner's sugar
1/2 c  Seedless raisins
1/4 c  Dark rum
2 pk Dry yeast
pn Sugar
1/4 c  Lukewarm water
1/2 lb Unsalted butter, softened
1/2 c  Sugar
Soak the raisins in the rum for 1/2 hour. Then drain and squeeze dry.
Sprinkle the yeast and a pinch of sugar into the water. Let the
mixture stand for 2 to 3 minutes; stir to dissolve the yeast. set in
a warm, draft free place such as an unlightened oven for 2 or 3
minutes or until the yeast has proofed (becomes foamy and has almost
doubled.)

Cream the soft butter and 1/4 cup of the sugar together by beating
them against the side of the bowl with a wooden spoon or with an
electric mixer at medium speed until light and fluffy, then stir in
the yeast solution and beat in the egg yolks, one at a time. Add the
orange peel, vanilla, salt and raisins. Beat in the flour, 1/2 cup at
a time.

In another mixing bowl, preferably of unlined copper, beat the egg
whites with a whisk or rotary or electric beater until they begin to
foam, then beat in the rest of the sugar. Continue to beat till stiff
unwavering peaks form when the beater is lifted out of the bowl.

With a rubber spatula, mix about 1/4 of the egg white mixture into the
batter, then reverse the process and fold the batter into the rest of
the egg whites, using an under and over folding motion. Continue to
fold till no trace of the whites remain but do not overfold.

With a pastry brush or a paper towel, lightly butter a ring mold (a
deep fluted Gugelhupf form is usually used, but any ring mold about 5
inches deep and 10 inches across will do.) Then sprinkle some flour
over it and tip the pan from side to side to coat the surface evenly.
Knock out the excess flour by inverting the mold and striking it
against the table. Arrange the almonds in a circle in the bottom of
the mold, then pour in the batter. Cover with a kitchen towel and set
in a warm, draft-free place (the unlightened oven is ideal) for 1 1/2
hours, or until the batter has risen to the top of the mold. preheat
the oven to 350 degrees F. Bake the Gugelhupf in the middle of the
oven for about 40 minutes, or until it is a light golden brown. Then
turn it out on a cake rack to cool. Dust lightly with confectioner's
sugar before serving.

Mary Riemerman
Submitted By MARY RIEMERMAN   On   04-16-95

