Title: Vitello Contadina
Categories: Italian, Masterchefs, New york
Yield: 6 servings
1 oz Mushrooms, Porcini, dried
-- soaked in hot water for
-- 30 minutes, reserve the
-- soaking liquid
6 tb Butter, unsalted
3 md Garlic, cloves, peeled
Salt
1/2 c  Wine, white, dry
1/2 c  Vermouth
1/3 c  Almonds, coarsely ground
3 1/2 lb Veal, top round, trimmed
-- ( in one piece )
2 sm Rosemary, sprigs OR
3/4 ts Rosemary, dried
8 oz Pancetta (Italian bacon)
-- (unsmoked) OR
8 oz Bacon
2 tb Parsley, chopped
2 ea Bay leaves
Nutmeg, grated
Pepper, coarsely ground
Make a deep incision down the center of the veal, being careful
not to cut all the way through; gently open it out flat as you would
a book. Trim off and reserve any irregular pieces of meat along the
edges, leaving a neat, compact shape.

Place rosemary along the center of the meat.  Top the meat with
half of the pancetta, overlapping the slices.  Sprinkle with parsley
and top with remaining pancetta, bay leaves, nutmeg and pepper.

Drain the porcini mushrooms, reserving and straining the liquid.
Rinse the porcini in cool water, drain again, chop coarsely and place
on the top of the meat.

Top with any reserved meat trimmings.  Close up meat compactly
and tie with kitchen twine, going once around lengthwise and several
times around crosswise.  Pat dry.

Melt the butter in a deep casserole over medium heat.  Add
garlic and cook until golden, about 6 minutes, then discard the
garlic.  Add the stuffed roast, season with salt, and cook until
lightly golden on all sides, 15 to 20 minutes.

Add wine and vermouth, basting the meat.  Cover the casserole,
lower heat to medium low and cook, turning and basting occasionally,
for 15 minutes.

Stir in the almonds and 1/2 cup of reserved mushroom-soaking
liquid. Cook, turning and basting occasionally, until tender, about
15 to 20 minutes longer.

Transfer the meat to carving board and let it stand for 10
minutes or longer.

Boil the sauce until lightly reduced.  Cut the roast into
1/2-inch-thick slices; if necessary, reheat the slices in the
casserole. Spoon sauce over and serve.
Source:  New York's Master Chefs, Bon Appetit Magazine
:  Written by Richard Sax, Photographs by Nancy McFarland
:  The Knapp Press, Los Angeles, 1985

Chef:   Alfredo Viazzi, Cafe Domel Restaurant, New York

