Title: EASY REFRIGERATOR ROLLS
Categories: Breads
Yield: 2 Dozen
6 1/4 c  Flour, all-purpose
1/2 c  Sugar
2 ts Salt
2 tb Yeast, dry (each
-pk is about 1 T)
1/2 c  Milk
1 1/2 c  Water
1/4 c  Butter
1    Egg
Vegetable shortening
-or more butter
Combine 2 cups of flour, sugar, salt and undissolved yeast.

Heat milk, water and butter until liquids are very warm (120-130
degrees F.). Add to dry ingredients. Beat 2 minutes at medium speed
(I've never used an electric mixer, by the way. Just stir until
things are evenly combined and not terribly lumpy.) Add egg and about
1 cup flour. Beat at high speed 2 minutes. Add enough additional
flour to make a soft dough. This is where the arm muscles get their
exercise!

Grease top of dough (with butter or vegetable shortening). Cover the
bowl and refrigerate it overnight.

Divide the dough into 24 equal pieces.  Shape them into balls and
place each in a greased muffin cup. Cover; let rise in a warm place
(75-100 degrees F.) until doubled. This will take between 1 and 1 1/2
hours. Towards the end of the rising period, preheat the oven to 400
degrees F. Bake at 400 degrees F. for 12 to 15 minutes. Store the
rolls tightly covered, that is, if there are any left.

NOTES:

*  An utterly reliable recipe for yeast rolls -- I believe this recipe
started its life on the back of a Fleischman's Yeast package, but it
has been memorized and modified for about ten years now. It is the
most reliable yeast recipe I've ever seen: it's never failed on me,
and it always does an amazing amount of rising (my family calls them
mushroom rolls).

*  This is the first really good yeast bread recipe I discovered when
I started making bread in the sixth grade. Done carefully, it can
approach a delicate, cake-like texture. It doesn't have to be shaped
into rolls, of course -- try it in a regular bread pan, or in fancy
shapes.

*  I use Fleischman's dry yeast.  I suppose cake yeast can be used,
but it always seemed like a nuisance to me.

: Difficulty:  easy.
: Time:  1 hour of work spread over 2 days.
: Precision:  measure the ingredients.

: Jean Marie Diaz (aka AMBAR)
: Massachusetts Institute of Technology
: Cambridge, MA

:  I choose this place to call my own;
:  The only grace I've ever known.
:  I never tire of legends grown;
:  We dream too much, and time has flown....

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

