Title: EATING WELL'S CHOCOLATE CHEESECAKE (2 OF 2)
Categories: Desserts, Cakes, Cheesecakes
Yield: 16 Servings
-Dorothy Cross TMPJ72B
-CRUST:
4 oz Chocolate wafers
1 c  Grape-Nuts cereal
2 tb Unsweetened cocoa powder
2 tb Sugar
3 tb Vegetable oil,
-preferably canola oil
To make crust: Preheat oven to 325 degrees. Coat a 9-inch springform
pan with nonstick cooking spray. Place chocolate wafers, Grape-Nuts,
cocoa and sugar in a food processor; using an on/off motion, process
until you have fine crumbs. Add oil and 3 Tbsp. water; process till
the crumbs are moistened. Press the crumb mixture into the bottom and
about 1-1/2 inches up the sides of the prepared pan. Set aside. To
make filling: Melt chocoalte in top of a double boiler over hot, not
boiling, water or in a microwave oven at medium (50%) power. Let cool
slightly. Dissolve instant coffee in 1 Tbsp. boiling water and set
aside. Place cottage cheese in a strainer lined with a double
thickness of cheesecloth. Gather up the cheesecloth and squeeze out
moisture from cottage cheese. Put pressed cottage-cheese solids in a
food processor and blend until smooth. Add cream cheese, sugar, egg,
egg whites, sour cream, cocoa, cornstarch, salt, vanilla the melted
chocolate and the dissolved coffee; process until smooth. Pour into
the crust-lined pan. Bake for about 1 hour, or until firm around the
edge but still shiny and slightly soft in the center. Run a knife
around the pan to loosen edges. Let cool in the pan on a rack. Cover
and refrigerate until well chilled, at least 8 hours or for up to 2
days. Remove sides. To facilitate cutting, dip a sharp knife in hot
water and wipe dry before cutting each slice. Serves 16.

COMMENTS: This cheesecake recipe is a new version of a

chocoholic's dream. It contains less than a third of the fat of the
original recipe. The careful balance of flavorings achieves a very
rich tasting cake.

266 calories per serving: 9 grams fat, 231 mg sodium, 25 mg
cholesterol. Source: Eating Well Magazine - May/June, 1993

Reformatted for Meal Master by: CYGNUS, HCPM52C & C.MINEAH

