Title: EGGS NEPTUNE WITH ORANGE HOLLANDAISE
Categories: Eggs, Ceideburg 2
Yield: 4 Servings
1 qt Water
1 tb Vinegar
1 ts Salt
8    Fresh eggs
4 tb (1/2 stick) unsalted
-butter, softened
1 1/2 c  Cooked crab meat,  fresh or
-canned
4    English muffins
Paprika (optional)
4    Thin slices orange, cut In
-half (optional)
MMMMM------------------ORANGE HOLLANDAISE SAUCE-----------------------
1/2 lb (2 sticks) unsalted butter,
-cut into pieces
4    Egg yolks
1 tb Orange juice
1 ts Grated orange zest
1/2 ts Grated lemon zest
1/2 ts Salt
1/4 ts Dry mustard
1/8 ts Cayenne pepper
Prepare the Hollandaise sauce, and keep it warm.  Mix the water with
the vinegar (which will help the egg whites set quickly) and put it
with the salt in a wide, shallow saucepan. Bring water to boil, then
reduce heat to gentle simmer.  One at a time, break each egg into a
separate small dish or bowl; then, holding the bowl very near the
surface of the water, gently slip in the egg.  Add more eggs to the
pan, taking care not to crowd them.

Continue simmering until whites are firmly set and yolks are covered
with slightly opaque film, about 3 minutes. Then use a slotted spoon
carefully to remove each egg to a folded kitchen towel to drain. With
small kitchen knife, carefully trim any ragged edges from whites.

While the eggs are poaching, melt half the butter in large skillet
over moderate to low heat, and saute the crab meat until heated
through.

Split and toast the English muffins and spread their cut sides with
remaining butter.  Place two muffin halves on each serving plate. Top
each half with some crab meat and then a poached egg. Spoon or pour
enough Hollandaise over each egg to cover it and spread down the side
of the muffin onto the plate.  If you wish, garnish with a dusting of
paprika and half an orange slice.

Makes 4 servings.

ORANGE HOLLANDAISE SAUCE:

In a small saucepan, melt butter over low heat until it's all liquid.
place remaining ingredients in a food processor or blender and
process until smoothly blended. With the machine running, pour in the
melted butter in a slow, steady stream until it is completely mixed
in and the sauce is thick. transfer sauce to small metal or glass
bowl, and set it inside a larger bowl or 1)an of hot water to keep it
warm.

Makes about 1 1/4 cups.

"Breakfast & Brunch Book" (HPBooks, $19.95), from the Hayward Daily
Review, 11/9/92.

Posted by Stephen Ceideberg; November 1 1992.

