Title: BEEF & BEAN CHILI
Categories: Beans, Chili, Ground beef, Diabetic
Yield: 6 Servings
1/2 lb Pinto Beans
1    Onion, chopped
1    Green Pepper, chopped
1 lb Ground Beef, extra lean -or-
-Ground Turkey
2    To 3 Garlic Cloves, minced
1 tb Chili Powder
2 ts Cumin
2 ts Cayenne Pepper (optional)
28 oz Can Tomatoes, drained
6 oz Can Tomato Sauce
''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''' '' Preheat
oven to 400 deg F.
In a mixing bowl, sift together the flours, baking powder, and salt.
In another bowl, combine 1/3 cup of the sugar with the melted butter
until it dissolves. Stir in the milk, then combine the wet with the
dry ingredients and work together to form a soft dough. Turn the
dough out onto a well-floured board and knead for a minute or so.
Divide the dough into 2 equal parts, form into smooth balls, and roll
out to to fit the bottom of a pie pan. Place the rounds of dough in 2
lightly oiled pie pans. Bake for 12-15 minutes, or until dough is
golden brown.
In the meantime, combine the crushed strawberries with the remaining
3 T sugar in a small bowl. Cover until ready to use.
Allow the baked dough to cool until it is just warm to the touch.
Place 1 round on a serving plate, spread it with the berries, and top
with the other round of dough. Cut into wedges to serve; this is best
served fresh and warm. Top each serving with a bit of cold, stiffly
beaten heavy cream if you'd like.
Sprinkle sliced strawberries with sugar; set aside.
Beat milk with lemon juice until thick. Fold in strawberries and
whipped cream. Divide among crepes; fold. Garnish with additional
whipped cream and a strawberry centered on the cream. Yields 6
servings.
Soak gelatin in milk, in custard cup. Set cup in boiling water; stir
until gelatin is completely dissolved.
Combine yogurt, sugar, and salt. Stir in gelatin mixture. Stir in
berries and lemon juice. Chill until slightly thickened; beat until
foamy. Fold in whipped cream. Pour mixture in metal ice-cube tray.
Cover with foil; freeze.
NOTE: I have also made this with approx 1/2 of 1 pint of fresh
strawberries, well crushed. I then froze it in a Donvier ice cream
maker. Delicious! * hulled, cleaned, and halved

Combine strawberries and sugar. Cover; let stand 15 minutes.
Prepare topping. Beat together yolks, 1/3 cup sugar, vanilla,
nutmeg, and brandy until smooth. Fold in yopurt.
Spoon strawberries into 4 sherbert dishes. Cover with topping;
garnish with almonds and chocolate. Yield 4 servings.

