Title: BEEF VINDALOO
Categories: Beef, Meats, Indian
Yield: 1 Servings
MMMMM--------------------------BARB DAY-------------------------------
2 lb Beef chuck cut into 1" cubes
14 c  Garlic
1/2 c  Red wine vinegar
4 sm Hot Red Chiles
1/4 ts Cumin seeds
3/4 ts Tumeric
1 ts Dry English mustard
1    Lemon
1 1/4 ts - Salt
1/4 ts Ginger
2    Bay leaves
5    Cloves; whole
3 tb Poppy seeds
1 sm Onion
1/2 c  Tomato paste
Clarified butter
- Salt and pepper to taste
1/4 c  Sugar
Place the garlic and vinegar into a blender and mix to a smooth
paste. Remove the tops and bottoms of the chiles and remove the
seeds. (do NOT put your fingers near your eyes, or they will become
inflamed). Add the peppers to the blended paste.  Put cumin seeds,
tumeric, mustard, ginger, salt and sugar into a small bowl and mix
together. Pour this mixture into the blender.  Remove the peel from
the lemon, squeeze the juice, discard the pips and chop the inner
pulp. Add the juice and the pulp to the blender, then blend
thouroughly.
Place the beef into a bowl and pour the blended mixture over it.
Stir in the poppy seeds and marinate for two hours. (Be careful not
to spill this marinade, or you might have to move from your home!
<G>) After meat is marinated, finely slice the onion.
Pour some clarified butter a skillet over med. heat, and add the
onions. Cook until opaque.  Add the bay leaves and cloves. With a
slotted spoon, lift the meat from the marinade and add to the frying
onions, increasing the heat so that the meat is sealed quickly. When
the meat is sealed all over, add the marinade.
Cover tightly, reduce heat to low and simmer for 1 hour. After
the meat has cooked for 1 hour, add the tomato paste, stirring it
thoroughly into the meat mixture, and cook for another 30 min. When
the meat is tender, serve at once - piping hot.
This is very hot!  Nice served with plain boiled or steamed long
grain rice.
For a nice cooling touch you might serve with a lime cordial.
Note: When using the hot chilies, remove the placenta as well as
the seeds (the inside fleshy membrane) as it contains Capucin and can
cause inflamation if you eat too much.

Source: Graham Kerr book , copy-righted 1971, called "The Galloping
Gourmet TV Cookbook" -Vol 6.  I have made this many, many times, and
love it.  I hope you will enjoy it for me, because my old stomach
just can't take it like it once did, and I have to tone down the
recipe to make it . But full-strngth it is fabulous if you like
things HOT and garlicky!
Good luck to those who are breathing in near you, for several days
after you consume this dish ! <grin>

