Title: BEET SOUP WITH SAGE & SHALLOTS
Categories: Vegetarian, Lacto
Yield: 1 Servings
1 bn Small organic beets (about 4
Or 5 beets)
(leave the stems on up to 2
Or 3 inches, but wash well
Around them)
x  Assorted leftover
Cruciferous veggie stems
(optional, I used broccoli
And cauliflower stems,
Peeled)
1/2 c  Rice vinegar (unsweetened)
x  One day, or a few hours
(optional)
4    Sage leaves
1/2 c  White zinfandel or other
White wine
2 lg Shallot cloves
4 sm Cloves garlic
1 tb Canola oil
x  Salt
x  Pepper, fresh crushed
x  Few drops maple syrup
2 tb Creme fraiche (similar to
Sour cream)
Thickly slice the beets and simmer in water ~30 minutes until cooked.
Include the stems of leftover cruciferous veggies in this simmer.
Strain and place in a bowl with 1/2 c rice vinegar and water to
cover. Let sit overnight in the refrigerator, or for as long as you
can. Use the beet leaves for making a green veggie to eat.

The next day, or later: Strain the beets from this liquid, place in a
food processor with sage leaves (stems removed). Process, adding a
little wine or water as needed. (Discard the vinegar, or save it for
the next batch of vinegared beets, in the fridge).

Slice the shallots and garlic.  Saute in a little of the canola oil,
with the shallots first, then later add the garlic (in order to avoid
overtoasting the garlic). After about 4 or 5 minutes, add the wine.
Simmer a minute or two.  Add this mixture to the food processor and
continue processing.  It is nicer if some graininess remains, but a
fine graininess.

Place this mixture back in a pan.  Add about 1 or 2 cups of hot water,
remaining canola oil, and salt (1/4 tsp) and pepper to taste. Stir and
simmer a few minutes, add 3 drops maple syrup. Pour into 2 regular or
1 large wide soupbowl, leave room on top.  Top with 1 or 2 T creme
fraiche, and stir in well.  Serve hot.

From: Lu Bozinovich <U33754@uicvm.uic.edu>. rfvc Digest V94 Issue #172
August 17, 1994. Formatted by Sue Smith, S.Smith34,
TXFT40A@Prodigy.com using MMCONV.

