Title: Acorn Squash with Wehani Rice & Pecan Stuffing
Categories: Vegetable, Low-cal/fat, Side dish, Holiday, Rice
Yield: 6 servings
1 c  Onion, diced
1/4 ts Dried thyme
1/2 ts Fresh ginger, minced
2 tb Pecan pieces
1 tb Orange zest, minced
Sea salt
Freshly ground black pepper
3    Acorn squash
2 c  Wehani rice or rice blend
4 c  Water
1 tb Tamari
1 tb Soy margarine or butter
1 c  Carrot, diced
1 c  Celery, diced
MMMMM---------------------------GLAZE--------------------------------
1/4 ts Cinnamon
1 c  Orange juice
1 tb Honey or barley malt
Halve squash lengthwise.  Seed, then steam for 20 minutes (squash
will not be fully cooked).  Set aside.  (May be prepared on day
ahead. Refrigerate.)

Bring water and tamari to a boil in a 2-quart saucepan over
medium-high heat.  Add rice and return to a boil.  Reduce heat and
simmer, covered, until liquid is absorbed and rice is tender.  (Rice
may be cooked up to 2 days ahead; refrigerate until used.)

For Stuffing: In a large skillet, saute carrots, celery, onion, thyme
and ginger in margarine or butter until onions are golden. Thoroughly
toss in pecans, orange zest and rice.  Season with salt and pepper to
taste. Remove from heat and set aside.  (Stuffing may be prepared 1
day ahead and refrigerated.)

Put glaze ingredients into a small jar and shake vigorously to
combine. Keep refrigerated until ready to use.  (Glaze may be
prepared a day ahead.)

One hour before serving, preheat oven to 375 F.  Mound stuffing
mixture into each squash half to about 2 inches over top of squash.
Place stuffed squash halves in a baking pan filled with 1/2 cup of
water. Drizzle some glaze over stuffing and brush onto squash. Cover
with foil and bake 20 minutes.

Drizzle remaining glaze over squash, and continue baking, uncovered,
for another 20 minutes until glazed and lightly browned.  Serve
immediately.

Calories per serving: 326 Grams of fat: 5 % fat calories: 14
Cholesterol: 0 mg. Grams of fiber: 5.8

Adapted from a recipe in Delicious! magazine (November 1994) Typed
for you by Karen Mintzias
Submitted By KAREN MINTZIAS   On   11-08-94

