Title: American Cookery, Part 3 of 5
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 servings
No Ingredients Found
MASSACHUSETTS:  Paul Revere and the Old North Church, Salem's
pillories, Minute Men of Lexington Green, Bunker Hill, Provincetown
and Plymouth, Pilgrims' first landings - one stands amid history in
the Old Colony, Gloucester ships combing Grand Bank for cod,
Tanglewood's music and Harward Yard, the dunes of Cape Cod, beans
baked in Boston: past is prologue in this place.

MICHIGAN:  Tulip festivals in Holland, ore boats locked in frozen
Whitefish Bay, racing sloops at Mackinac Island, brant and plover
nesting in the wild archipelago of Isle Royale - these tell the
seasons in the Twin Peninsulas, Four Great Lakes wash these shores,
canalboats ply the Soo, but the Wolverine State runs on cars coming
off Detroit's assembly lines. MINNESOTA:  Longfellow's Minnehaha
Falls and Minnetonka Lake, where the loons cry - heritage of the
Sioux, Lake of the Woods, Rainy Lake and 10,000 more, ore fields of
the vast Mesabi, legacy of nature.  Elk herds run at Red Lake and
fishermen mend their nets along Superior's shore. Winter is carnival
time at St. Paul, at Rochester, a clinic offers its healing hand.
MISSISSIPPI:  An antebellum mansion in a copse of Natchez magnolie
trees recalls the Rebel host and a time of unfaded glory.  Jackson,
Vicksburg, Corinth - the names of battle ring out through Dixie Land,
Look away, look away, to fields of cotton in the Yazoo delta and to
stands of pecan trees. Rodeos for mackerel at Gulfport and srimp
boats trawling off Biloxi. MISSOURI:  Huck and Tom, adrift in
enduring boyhood, a Twain to mark the time - ignoring Mississippi,
Lake of the Ozarks, complementing rocky glens, wide "Old Muddy,"
wandering, wandering.  Place for Pony Express to begin, for Pulitzer
to prize, for a man of Independence, for Kansa City and St Loo too.
Watermelons a-ripening, "Land of the big red apple," Show me,
Missouri. MONTANA: When spring's Chinook winds kiss this "Land of
Shining Mountains," Big Horns frolic, bitterroot begins to blush and
wind-sculptured buttes shed mantles of snow.  Copper and sapphires are
treasures, but the Chinook is gold: in its wake pasture lands turn
green, wheat ripens, tourist come.  Only at Glacier Park does Chinook
fail: there, winter is eternal. NEBRASKA: Halfway to anywhere:
midpoint between Altantic and Pacific. Here sound the songs of
Indians, barracks soldiers, homesteaders, and cowboys in a spot where
Angus and Herefords graze and cornfields stretch to the sky.
Nourished by the broad, curving Platte River, this land so needed
shade that one of its pioneers insured trees by creating Arbor Day to
plant them. NEVADA: Brilliantly red in the setting sun are the
tablelands, and gleaming white are the alkali flats, where yucca and
sagebrush fight the starkness. Comstock Lode in the Sierra Nevada -
the "Snow Clad" - frustrated the first fortune-seekers but still they
come: those who seek atomic boom at Yucca Flat, or those who pursue
rolling riches at Reno and Las Vegas. NEW HAMPSHIRE: Rugged,
pulse-stirring, genteel, the Great Stone Face, the crest of Mount
Washinton, the carm of proudly aging Portsmouth. Skiers test its
slopes, hibers clamber high where wild winds lay bare the peaks.
Wispy falls seep from granite crags made gay by white birches and
evergreens. In this place Daniel Webster exclaimed "God Almighty
makes Men!" NEW JERSEY: Palisades and Water Gap, gouged by eons,
crossroads of Revolution, where Washington slept - and fought.
Oak-trimmed mountains level toward the golden Atlantic strand ruled
by Miss America.  Frenetic beside its heartland roads, place of
machines, place to live, serene in its Pine Barrens, whose wild
orchids, and pixie moss defy the passage of both and and men. Origin:
Women's Day Encyclopedia of Cookery, Volume 1. Shared by: Sharon
Stevens, Oct/94.

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   10-31-94

