Title: American Cookery, Part 4 of 5
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 servings
No Ingredients Found
NEW MEXICO:  Sangre de Cristo, Llano Estacado, Alamogaro, Jornada del
Muerto, Santa Fe, old when Plymouth was young, Taos pueblo, ancient
when Santa Fe was born.  Irrigation grees this enchanted square, but
nature hewed the mesas and the canyons and fashioned the Caverns of
Carlsbad. As an old Spanish saying goes: "tomorrow is the flower of
its yesterdays."

NEW YORK:  Lake Tear-of-the-Clouds, where rises the lordly Hudson, an
Island called Manhattan, topped by towers of fashion and finance, of
peace and creation.  Adirondacks and Catskills, timbered and free,
Niagara of thunder, Finger Lakes touched by ivied halls, ad island
long to Montauk. Seat of Empire, where no royalty reigns, for MIss
Liberty welcomes all to the world. NORTH CAROLINA: Hatteras and Fear,
capes of dread on sands of joy. Westward the Great Smokies, crowned
in haze, alive in ballads and fingertip arts.  Rhododendrons and
dogwood glorify the spring, tobacco leaves turn golden in curls of
smoke.  Here Roanoke Island lost a colony, Thomas Wolfe looked
forever homeward, Kitty Hawk set earth-bound men to soaring the in
the clouds. NORTH DAKOTA: It's durum wheat makes macaroni but its
bonanza is spring wheat. Canada and the United States join hands
across the border in International Peace Garden, by the Turtle
Mountains where the 13 striped flickertail squirrel scampers and wild
birds sing. Man made Garrison Lake holds sweet Missouri water,
glacier formed Devils Lake is laden with salt. OHIO: Maker of flass,
creator of pottery, forger of steel, molder of tires, edged by the
meanderings of La Belle Riviere and the vastness of Lake Erie. Place
of mound builders, welcomers of Johnny Appleseed, spawner of
Presidents, home of McGuffeys' "Readers" and Harace Mann. Market
place, factories, fertile fields, Indians had the proper word for
'great'; Ohio. OKLAHOMA: Indian forever, in beginnings, in name, in
spirit, even if homesteaders came 'sooner' than expected. Cattle
browse its ranges, hardwoods top its Ozarks, and pines hide the
Ouachita. Corn, if not "as high as an elephant's eye," is tall. Wide
rivers quench soil's thirst, but humans are sustained in oil.  Indian
names, great open fields, gushing wells, plenty to share. OREGON:
Trails' end for wagon trains, lifes beginning for spawing salmon
struggling past Bonneville, Crater Lake, unbelievably blue in volcano
bed, Klamath and Multnomah, falls of tumbling grace, Willamette,
valley of lushness. Soaking autumn "mist" to raise its forests, Mount
Hood to stand in snow-tiaraed majesty and a sea carved coast to take
the breath away. PENNSYLVANIA: Cradle of Liberty, bed of coal, City
of Brotherly Love, Hearth of the Nation. Midpoint of the 13 colonies,
Keystone of steel and coal. Laurel in the Poconos, hex sign and
shoofly pie in Dutch country, misery at Valley Forge, triumph at
Gettysburg, flaming power at Pittsburgh. Penn's woods of grean,
moutnains name Blue, iron fist firm in a glove of velvet. RHODE
ISLAND: Smalles of all, facing th esea, here Roger Willimas, in
Providence, set men free. Block Island, to foretell trouble from
wind, Point Judith on land, Prudence and Patience, isles at bay.
Newport proud on a cliff, its many mansioned miles a disdainer of
breakers, a sustainer of wealth. Narragansett yachts, catching
offshore gusts for Bermuda. SOUTH CAROLINA: At Charleston, it's said,
"the Ashly and the Cooper meet to form the Atlantic," and stately
gardens augment white pillared home. Upcountry, Caesar's Head can
wear a cap of snow, but ice is a stranger to the Pee Dee and the Wee
Tee Lake. Cotton, wood pulp and bright-leaf mean weath, wild rice,
sweet jasmine and mockingbird mean boon for the soul. Origin: Women's
Day Encyclopedia of Cookery, Volume 1. Shared by: Sharon Stevens,
Oct/94.

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   10-31-94

