Title: Apache Stew
Categories: Native amer, Game, Vegetable, Soup/stew
Yield: 8 servings
2    Carrots, sliced
3 c  Cooked Indian hominy
8 c  Water
2    Red bell peppers
5    Green anaheim chiles
1/4 c  Sunflower oil
1 lb Venison, cut into 1 1/2 inch    1 1/2 ts Salt
1 ts White pepper
1 c  Tumbleweed greens,
-thoroughly cleaned, or
-curly endive
-cubes
1    Onion, diced
3    Garlic cloves, finely
-chopped
Roast the peppers, then peel, seed, and cut into long strips.  Roast
the chiles, then peel, seed, devein and dice.

Heat the oil in a large stew pot over medium-high heat.  When the oil
is almost smoking, add the venison and cook until the meat is lightly
browned, 3 to 5 minutes.  Add the onion and garlic and saute 2
minutes more.

Stir in the carrots, peppers, and chiles and cook 1 minute more.  Add
the hominy, water, salt, and pepper and bring the mixture ot a boil.
Reduce the heat to low and let the stew simmer 1 1/2 hours, stirring
occasionally to prevent burning, until the meat is very tender.  Just
before serving, add the tumbleweed greens, stir 1 minute and spoon
into bowls. *****

The Apache people lived in many regions throughout southeastern
Arizona and New Mexico.  The men hunted the animals that roamed the
mountains, and the women gathered and harvested both wild foods and
the foods that they cultivated on the land.

This recipe is based on a traditional stew that was taught to me by a
San Carlos medicine man during one of my visits to his ranch.  When I
prepare the stew now, I can vividly remember the tapping of his
traditional water drum and the songs he chanted in his native Apache
tongue. Through his songs, he asked for all people to walk in harmony
with Mother Earth and be guided by the spirit of the mountains and
the spirit of his drum. I still remember the sincerity and yearning
of his songs.

Depending on what type of produce was available, the ingredients
added to the venison varied each time the stew was prepared.  This
recipe includes the basics of the stew, but you can substitute other
vegetables.

From "Native American Cooking," by Lois Ellen Frank
Submitted By HILDE MOTT   On   10-29-94

