Title: Arrowheads of Blue Corn Gnocchi with Guajillo Chile Sauce
Categories: Native amer, Main dish, Vegetable, Pasta
Yield: 6 servings
MMMMM---------------------BLUE CORN GNOCCHI--------------------------
4    Eggs
1 1/2 c  All purpose flour
2 md Russet potatoes
8 qt Water
5 oz Soft white goat cheese (appx    1 1/2 c  Blue cornmeal
2 tb Salt
1/2 cup)
MMMMM--------------------GUAJILLO CHILE SAUCE-------------------------
1/2 ts Salt
1/2 ts White pepper
5 1/2 c  Water
3 oz Dried red guajillo chiles
(about 15 chiles, or 2 1/4
-cuups)
1/2 c  Dried pumpkin seeds
To make the gnocchi, peel and boil the potatoes in 2 quarts water
until soft and cooked through.

In a food processor, combine the potatoes and goat cheese and process
until lump free, about 2 minutes.  Add the eggs and process another
minute. The mixture should resemble putty.

Stir the flour and blue cornmeal toghether.  Pour the potato mixture
into a bowl and add 2 cups of the flour-cornmeal mixture.  Mix
together thoroughly to form the dough.

Dust a wooden cuttingboard with half the remaining flour-cornmeal
mixture and place the dough on top.  Flatten it and sprinkle it with
the remaining flour and cornmeal.  Knead the flour and cornmeal into
the dough until it becomes stiff.  The dough is ready when it no
longer clings to the board. If the mixture is still soft, damp and
sticky, add a little more flour.

With your hands, shape the dough on a board into a long rooll 2
inches in diameter.  With a knife cut the dough into slices 1 inch
thick. Flour another board and roll each 1 inch piece into a thin
strip about 1/2 inch wide and 16 inches long.  Flatten the stips,
with your hands to about 1 inch wide, and cut the dough with a knife
into arrowheads, or any other shape you desire.  Set aside.

To make the Guajillo Chile Sauce, put the chiles, pumpkin seeds, salt
and pepper in a food processor and process for 1 minute.  Add the
water, in small amounts, until completely blended, about 4 minutes.
Press the mixture through a fine sieve and discard the pulp.

In a saucepan, heat the chile mixture over medium-high heat 4 minutes,
until it begins to boil.  Reduce the heat and simmer 15 minutes, until
thickened.

While the sauce is simmering, cook the gnocchi.  In a large pot,
bring the 6 quarts water to a boil with the salt.  Add the gnocchi
and cook 2 to 3 minutes, gently stirring frequently so they don't
stick. At first the gnocchi will sink to the bottom; as they cook,
they will begin to hold their shape and float to the surface.

Once the gnocchi have risen to the top, remove them from the boiling
water with a slotted spoon.

Spoon 1/2 cup sauce on each plate, top with the gnocchi and serve
immediately. **************

In this dish, I have used blue cornmeal, a basic ingredient in Native
American southwest cooking, to make gnocchi, a classic Italian potato
dumpling.  The cornmeal makes the dough thicker and more pliable,
which makes cutting the dumplings into interesting shapes for
presentation very easy.

*** NOTE *** At higher altitudes, gnocchi can take longer to cook.
Test before serving.

From "Native American Cooking," by Lois Ellen Frank
Submitted By HILDE MOTT   On   10-31-94

