Title: Baguette of Mushrooms
Categories: Mushroom, Low-cal/fat, Main dish
Yield: 4 servings
Filter works good - about
10 hours)
2 oz Canadian bacon, sliced thin
1 lb Chanterelle mushrooms
(if not in season use
Button mushrooms)
2 oz Smoked turkey breast,
Cut in small strips
1/8 t  Cayenne pepper
1 T  Fresh chopped parsley
4    Sprigs fresh thyme
1    (12-inch) French baguette
4 t  Extra light olive oil with a
Dash of sesame oil
3    Shallots, finely chopped
2 T  Fresh thyme leaves
1/4 t  Fresh grated nutmeg
1/8 t  Fresh ground black pepper
1/2 c  De-alcoholized chardonnay
2 T  De-alcoholized chardonnay
Wine with 2 T cornstarch
1/2 c  Evaporated skim milk
1 1/4 c  Chicken stock
1/2 c  Strained yogurt (a coffee
MMMMM------------------------THE FILLING-----------------------------
ß In a small saucepan, heat 1 teaspoon of the olive oil.  Add the
shallots, 1 tablespoon of the thyme, nutmeg and freshly ground
pepper. Cook until the shallots are translucent.

ß Pour in the de-alcoholized wine and boil until reduced by half. Add
the cornstarch paste, bring to a boil and stir until thickened.
Remove from the heat and add the evaporated milk and 1/4 cup of the
chicken stock.

ß Put the pan into a bowl of ice water in order to cool it quickly,
or just stand there and wait for it!  When cooled, add the yogurt and
stir in the remaining tablespoon of the thyme.  Strained yogurt can
break up into little flecks if it is added to hot liquids.  For this
reason, do please cool the sauce so that the whitening effect can
take place and the sauce will look smooth and glossy.

ß Heat the remaining olive oil in a low sided stewpot.  Add the
Canadian bacon, mixing it lightly with the oil.

ß Seperate the mushroom caps from the stems and slice the stems. Drop
the stems into the stewpot and saute for five minutes. Now add the
caps and stir gently.

ß Add a little of the remaining chicken stock to kick up some steam,
then add the rest, stirring lightly.  Cover and simmer for 5 minutes.
Remove from the heat.

ß Pour the cooking liquid from the stewpot through a fine mesh
strainer into the yogurt sauce.  Mix thoroughly.  Pour the yogurt
sauce back into the mushrooms and stir together.  Add the turkey and
cayennne. Mix in the parsley.

ß To Serve: Cut the baguette into 1 inch slices and remove most of
the soft center, leaving only a thin layer of dough on the bottom,
forming a shallow bread "cup".  Put the bread slices on an ovenproof
plate and toast in the oven until golden brown.  Pour 1/2 cup of the
chanterelle cream over the bread and garnish with a sprig of thyme.

ß I cut it diagonally for a main course and straight across for a
starter. The main course needs a beautiful fresh salad with lots of
herbs and edible flowers. Nutritional Profile

CLASSIC
66%
752 Fiber 3 4
PER SERVING
36 8 Calories From Fat
14 Sodium 1103

ß Clasic Compared - Chanterelles and Smoked Ham in Cream ß 60 minute
prep time ß Low cost

FROM: Graham Kerr's Smart Cooking, Doubleday, page 10,11
Submitted By BRENT WILLIAMS   On   11-05-94

