Title: Beef 'n Bean Roll-Up
Categories: Beans, Vegetable, Main dish, Ground beef
Yield: 3 servings
2 tb Butter Or Margarine
1/4 c  Milk
2 tb Molasses
1 c  Unbleached Flour
1 ts Baking Powder
1/4 ts Salt
MMMMM------------------------MEAT MIXTURE-----------------------------
1/4 c  Onion; Finely Chopped, To
-Taste Whichever Is Used
1/4 c  Mollasses
2 tb Catsup
1 lb Ground Beef
1 lb Pork And Beans; Not The
-Tomato Kind, 1 Cn, 1 3/4
-Cup
1 tb Instant Minced Onion; OR
Prepare the meat mixture and set aside.  In a medium mixing bowl,
combine the flour with the baking powder and salt. Cut in the
margarine until crumbly.  Add the milk and mollasses, mixing well,
and stir until the dough clings together.  On a lightly floured
surface, knead the dough 5 or 6 times.  Roll out to a 6 X 3-inch
rectangle. Spread about 1/2 cup of the meat mixture over the dough.
Starting with the six inch side, roll up and seal.  Cut the roll into
six 1-inch slices. Pour the remaining hot meat mixture into a 8 or 9
inch square or round (shallow 1 1/2 quart) baking dish.  Place the
biscuit slices on the not meat mixture in the baking dish. (To assure
doneness, place biscuits on very hot meat mixture.) Bake at 400
degrees F. for 20 to 25 minutes or until the biscuits are browned and
the bean mixture is bubbling. Serve Hot.

MEAT MIXTURE:

In a fry pan, brown the ground beef, drain and add the beans, onion,
molasses and catsup, mixing well.  Bring the mixture to aboil, remove
from the heat and cover to keep warm.

Variations:

Beef 'N Bean Bake.

Top Beef and Bean mixture with molasses drop biscuits. Combine 1 cup
of Pancake or Waffle mix, 3 Tb milk, 2 tb mollasses, and 1 lg egg,
blending well.  Drop the mixture on top of the meat mixture, and bake
for 12 to 15 minutes in a 400 degree F. oven, until the biscuits are
done and meat mixture is bubbling.  Seve hot.

Beef 'N Bean Biscuit Bake.

Top the hot meat mixture with refrigerated biscuits. Bake at 400
Degrees F. 12 to 15 minutes or until the biscuits are brown and the
meat mixture is bubbly.

Speedy Meat 'N Bean Bake.

Use 1 1/2 to 2 cups of luncheon meat (or cooked beef, pork, or ham)
for the ground beef.  Omit the browning. Top with the biscuits as
directed (refrigerated or mollasses drop biscuits work the best) and
bake as directed above.

Beef 'N Bean Roll Up For A Party

Double all of the ingredients, pouring the bean mixture into a 12 X 8
or 13 X 9-inch baking dish.  (2 or 3 quarts) Bake as directed.
FROM: Money Saving Meals By The Pillsbury Company Copyright 1970

Posted by: Rich Harper
Submitted By RICH HARPER   On   10-21-94

