Title: Black Bean Chili Part 2
Categories: Vegetable, Main dish, Tex/mexican, Chili
Yield: 8 servings
-part 2
-DEBORAH MADISON
Continuation of Directions from Part One Add cumin seeds, and when
they begin to color, add the oregano leaves, shaking the pan
frequently so the herbs don't scorch. As soon as the fragrance is
strong and robust, remove the pan from the heat and add the paprika
and cayenne. Give everything a quick stir; then remove from the pan,
the paprika and cayenne only need a few seconds to toast. Grind in a
mortar or spice mill to make a coarse powder. Preheat the oven to
375F. To make the chili powder, put the dried chile in the oven for
3-to-5 minutes to dry it out. Cool briefly; then remove the stem,
seeds and veins. Tear pod into small pieces and grind into a powder
in a blender or a spice mill. Heat oil in a large skillet and saute
the onions over med.heat until they soften. Add garlic, salt, ground
herbs and chili powder and cook another 5 minutes. Add tomatoes and
their juice. Simmer everything together for 15 minutes then add this
mixture to the beans, and, if necessary, enough water so the beans
are covered by at least 1". Continue cooking beans slowly until they
are soft, an hour or longer, or pressure cook them for 30 minutes at
15 pounds pressure. Keep an eye on the water level and add more, if
needed, to keep beans amply covered. When beans are cooked, taste
them and season to taste with the vinegar, additional salt if needed,
and the chopped cilantro. Prepare garnishes. If you are using fresh
green chiles, roast over a flame until evenly charred. Let steam 10
minutes in a bowl covered with a dish; then scrape off the skins,
discard the seeds, and dice. Serve chili ladled over a large spoonful
of grated cheese and garnish with creme fraiche or sour cream, green
chilies and a sprig of fresh cilantro. Though served in a bowl and
eaten with a spoon, this chili is a great deal thicker than most
soups... thick enough in fact to be served on a plate right alongside
fritters or cornbread. It also, however, can be thinned considerably
with stock, water or tomato juice to make a thinner but still very
flavorful black bean soup. When thinned to make a soup, it can be
served as part of a meal rather than a meal in itself. This is one of
the best known recipes from the San Francisco restaurant Greens.

DEBORAH MADISON - PRODIGY GUEST  CHEFS

