Title: Black Bean Soup - Graham Kerr's Smart Cooking
Categories: Beans, Low-cal/fat, Soup/stew
Yield: 6 servings
4 t  Ground cummin seed
4    Sprigs of oregano
3    Bay leaves
1 md Red bell pepper,
Seeded and diced
3 T  Fresh chopped parsley
1 T  Brown sugar
1 T  Freshly squeezed lemon juice
2 t  Orange zest
1 c  Strained yogurt mixed with
1 t  Chopped cilantro
1 lb Black turtle beans
2 lg Ham hocks, stripped of all
Visible fat
4 t  Extra light olive oil with a
Dash of sesame oil
2 lg Yellow onions, peeled and
Diced
4    Cloves garlic
3 qt Water (or good beef stock)
1/2 t  Freshly ground black pepper
1 pn Cayenne pepper
ß The night before making this splendid soup, place the black beans
in a bowl of water and let them soak overnight.

ß Blanch the ham hocks by putting them in a medium saucepan with
enough cold water to cover and bring to the boil.  Pour off the water
and rinse out the pan. ß In a 10 inch diameter Dutch oven, or
high-sided casserole pot, heat 1 tablespoon of the olive oil and
saute the onions and garlic.

ß Rinse and drain the black beans thoroughly.  Pour them into the pot
and place the ham hocks in the center.  This allows the bean flavor
to be evenly  "en-hocked!"

ß Cover with the water or stock, add the freshly ground black pepper
and stir in the cayenne, 1 tablespoon of the cumin seed, the oregano
and bay leaves.  Bring to a boil and simmer for 1 1/2 hours.  Now
remove the ham hocks and bay leaves, setting the ham haocks aside in
a medium sized bowl and discarding the bay leaves.

ß Remove 1« cups of beans from the soup, along with 1« cups of the
cooking liquid adn puree these in a food processor.  Pour this
mixture through a sieve, into a large bowl.  With a wooden spoon,
push the beans through the sieve.  Pour the puree back into the pot
and discard the residue in the sieve.

ß Chop approximately 1« cups of the lean ham lock meat into very small
chunks and toss them back into the soup.

ß In a hot, small saucepan stir the remaining olive oil with the red
pepper, parsley, the remaining cumin seed and the brown sugar. Mix in
the lemon juice and orange zest and stir into the hot soup. What a
fabulous aroma!

ß Take the soup to the table with the yogurt-cilantro mixture on the
side.

Nutritional Profile

CLASSIC
44%
63 Fiber 19 16
PER SERVING
29 15 Calories From Fat
36 Sodium 708

ß Clasic Compared - Black Bean Soup ß 60 minute hands on ß Cost
Estimate: Low to Medium

FROM: Graham Kerr's Smart Cooking, Doubleday, page 16,17
Submitted By BRENT WILLIAMS   On   11-05-94

