Title: Brandied Fruit Cakes (Sharon)
Categories: Cake/cookie, Fruit, Cheese/eggs, Holiday
Yield: 1 servings
1/2 c  Honey
4 1/2 c  Unsifted all purpose flour
2 t  Baking powder
1 t  Baking soda
1 t  Salt
1 t  Nutmeg
1/2 t  Cloves (ground)
1 c  Pitted dates, cut up
2 1/4 c  Candied cherries
1 c  Blanched almonds, halved
4 1/2 c  Raisins
2 1/4 c  Currants
1/2 lb Soft butter or margarine
1/2 lb Soft shortening
2 c  Sugar
1 T  Vanilla extract
1 T  Almond extract
12 ea Eggs
1 c  Orange juice concentrate
-(not thawed)
**NOTE**  I take the whole amount of fruit (10 cups) and make a nice
looking mixture.  I don't necessarily use the amounts shown.  If the
candied fruit is on sale, I just use more of it than the raisins.  I
still end up with the 10 cups, but it is usually more of the fruit
mix and candied pineapple.  The almonds I use are the slivered ones.
Easier to work with...  The original recipe called for brandy or
grape juice, but I found that if you substitute the orange juice
concentrate, it has a nicer flavour. Use 2 tube pans 10x4 each, or 5
loaf pans. Line pans with 2-3 thicknesses of brown paper or 1
thickness of heavy foil; grease well with unsalted shortening. (I use
lard to grease and don't need to line with paper) Wash raisins and
currants and dry thoroughly between paper towels. Beat butter and
shorteningtogether very thoroughly; when smooth and fluffy, add sugar
gradually, beating continuously.  Blend in vanilla and almond
extract.  Add eggs, one at a time, beating after each addition.  Beat
in orange juice and honey.  This may cause the batter to appear
separated, but it will not affect results.  Sift together remaining
dry ingredients. Mix prepared fruits and almonds in large mixing
bowl; add sifted dry ingredients, and mix well to coat pieces.
Scrape egg and butter mixture into bowl, and, using hands, combine
very thoroughly. Fill each pan 3/4 full.  Preheat oven to 275F.  Bake
cakes 1-1/2 to 3-1/2 hours, depending on size of pans used.  After
first hour or so, place pan of water on bottom of oven to prevent
cakes from drying out. When cakes test done, remove from oven, and
let pans stand on racks until cakes are completely cooled. Remove
from pans, and peel of paper linings. Let ripen 4-5 weeks before
serving. This recipe makes dark moist cake, rich with fruits and
mingled flavors of spices, honey, and the like. If desired, recipe
may be halved with good results. When they come out of the oven, I
let them sit for a few minutes and then take them out of the pans
while still fairly hot. Let them cool for maybe 15-20 minutes and
then pack them while still warm.  I pour 1/4 to 1/2 cup brandy
(apricot, orange, or cherry) onto the cakes, wrap in double thickness
of Handy wrap, then wrap in tin foil securely.  I then store them in
the basement where it is cool and every couple of days I turn them to
make sure that the brandy diffuses throughout the whole cake. I have
NEVER had this recipe fail me.  I am asked for it by most of my
family members as I send them for presents at Christmas.  I have
tried other recipes, but this one has the moistest results I have
found. By pouring the brandy on AFTER it is cooked, you get a cake
that kicks!! (for our A.A. friends, I make "dry" ones with no brandy
and it still stays moist.) Origin: Chatelaines' Adventures in
Cooking, adaptations by me. Shared by: Sharon Stevens.

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   11-12-94

