Title: Chicken & Sausage Gumbo
Categories: Cajun/creol, Chicken, Main dish
Yield: 1 servings
1/2 t  Salt
1/2 t  Garlic powder
Vegetable oil for deep
-frying
1 t  Tabasco sauce
About 7 c chicken stock
-(preferred) or water
1/2 lb Andouille smoked sausage
-(preferred) or any other
-good pure smoked
Chicken and Andouille
-Smoked Sausage Gumbo
1 ea Chicken, cut up
Salt
Garlic powder
T  Sauce
1 c  Finely chopped onions
1 c  Finely chopped green bell
-pepper
3/4 c  Finely chopped celery
1 1/4 c  Flour
smoked sausage such as Polish sausage (Kielbasa), cut into 1/4 inch
cubes 1 tsp minced garlic Hot cooked rice Remove excess fat from
chicken. Rub a generous amount of salt, garlic powder, and Tabasco on
both sides of each piece, making sure each is evenly covered. Let
stand at room temperature for 30 minutes. Meanwhile, in a medium
bowl, combine onion, bell pepper, and celery.  Set aside. Combine the
flour, the 1/2 tsp salt, and 1/2 tsp garlic powder in a paper or
plastic bag. Add the chicken pieces and shake until chicken is well
coated. Reserve 1/2 c of the flour. In a large skillet (preferably a
non-stick type) heat 1 1/2 inches of oil until very hot (375 - 400
degrees).  Fry the chicken until crust is brown on both sides and
meat is cooked, about 5 - 8 minutes per side; drain on paper towels.
Carefully pour the hot oil into a glass measuring cup, leaving as
many of the browned particles in the pan as possible.  Scrape the pan
bottom with a metal whisk to loosen any stuck particles, then return
1/2 c of the hot oil to the pan. Place pan over high heat. Using a
long handled metal whisk, gradually stir in the reserved 1/2 c flour.
Cook, whisking constantly, until roux is dark red-brown to black,
about 3 1/2 - 4 minutes, being careful not to let it scorch or splash
on your skin. Remove from heat and immediately add the reserved
vegetable mixture and the 1 tsp Tabasco, stirring constantly until
the roux stops getting darker. (DON'T YOU JUST LOVE DIRECTIONS LIKE
THESE??? ++EC) Return pan to low heat and cook until vegetables are
soft, about 5 minutes, stirring constantly and scraping the pan
bottom well. Manwhile, place the stock or water in a 5 1/2 quart
saucepan or large Dutch oven. Bring to a boil. Add roux mixture by
spoonfuls to the boiling stock, stirring until dissolved between
additions. Return to a boil, stirring and scaping pan bottom often.
Reduce heat to a simmer and stir in the andouille and minced garlic.
Simmer uncovered for about 45 minutes, stirring often toward the end
of cooking time. While gumbo is simmering, debone the cooked chicken
and dice the meat into 1/2 inch pieces.  When the gumbo is cooked,
stir in the chicken and adjust the seasoning with salt and pepper.
Serve immediately. To serve as a main course, mound 1/3 c cooked rice
in the center of each soup bowl; ladle about 1 1/4 c gumbo around the
rice.  For an appetizer, place 1 heaping tsp cooked rice in a cup and
ladle about 3/4 c gumbo on top.

Submitted By MARGE CLARK   On   11-07-94

