Title: Chocolate Mousse Cake (Part Two)
Categories: Cake/cookie, Salsa/sauce, Chocolate
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM-----------------GANACHE ICING AND ASSEMBLY----------------------
MMMMM-----------------FOR CHOCOLATE MOUSSE CAKE----------------------
- Chopped coarse
2 tb Orange flavored liqueur
1 c  Heavy cream
8 oz Semisweet chocolate
MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
- slices
Oranges; halved/sliced thin
- into half rounds/about 14
FOR THE GANACHE: In a small saucepan bring the cream just to a simmer.
Remove the pan from the heat, add the chocolate and let the mixture
stand, covered, for 5 minutes. Stir in the liqueur and continue to
stir the ganache until smooth and tepid. Strain through a fine sieve
into a small pitcher or a bowl with a lip.

ASSEMBLY: Cut an 8" cardboard round and put one teaspoon of the
mousse in the center of it, then set one of the cake layers, bottom
side up on the cardboard. Cover the cake with some of the mousse,
smoothing it into an even layer, and top it with the remaining layer,
bottom side up. Cover the top and the sides of the cake with the
remaining mousse, smoothing it with a spatula, and chill the cake
until it is cold. Set the cake on a rack over a jelly roll pan and
pour the creme ganache over it, smoothing it with a spatula to
completely cover the top and sides of the cake. Let the cake stand at
room temperature for 10 minutes and scrape any excess chocolate glaze
from the jelly roll pan back into the saucepan. Heat the excess
ganache, stirring, until smooth, cool it to tepid, and pour it over
the cake, smoothing it with a spatula over the top and sides of the
cake. Chill the cake until the glaze is set. Transfer the reserved
chocolate mixture to a pastry bag. Arrange orange slices, rounded
sides up on the top of the cake, so that one end of the slice is
toward the center and the other is toward the edge of the cake. Pipe
the chocolate mixture along the base on each side of the orange
slices. Arrange the remaining cream decoratively around the bottom
edge of the cake. Let the cake stand at room temperature for at least
15 minutes before serving.

From the databases of Barb Day Prodigy ID# GWHP32A.
Submitted By MARY LOU KAKANOWSKI   On   11-30-94

