Title: Club Seabourne's West Indian Pumpkin Soup
Categories: Caribbean, Soup/stew, Vegetable, Pumpkin
Yield: 4 servings
-- seeded and cubed
1 md Potato; cubed
1 tb Curry powder
4    Whole cloves
1    To 2 chicken bouillon cubes
;Water to cover
1/2 c  Milk
1 md Onion; chopped
2    Garlic cloves; chopped
2    Celery ribs; chopped
1    Green pepper; chopped
1" fresh ginger (chopped) or
1 ts Powdered ginger
2 tb Butter
3 c  Pumpkin; peeled
MMMMM-------------------------GARNISHES------------------------------
Chopped scallions & parsley
In a large saucepan, saute onion, garlic, celery, green pepper and
ginger in butter until transparent.

Peel pumpkin and cut in 1" cubes.  Peel potato and cut in small
cubes. Add to onion mixture along with curry powder, cloves, bouillon
and water. Simmer 20 minutes or until pumpkin is tender.  Mash.  Add
milk and stir to combine.  Garnish.

Yield: 4 to 6 servings.

Rucker wrote: "Last winter we visited Culebra, a tiny island in the
Caribbean.  We stayed at a resort called Seabourne, and I use the term
'resort' loosely for it might seem primitive to some travelers.
However, we thought it superb.

"The proprietor's wife did all the cooking, and one of her staples was
pumpkin soup - always made fresh and redolent of onions and spices.
I have searched my cookbooks and experimented but can't seem to
achieve the same delicious flavor.

"If you could get the recipe, I am sure other readers would enjoy it
as much as we, especially at this time of year."

Colombo wrote: "This was a fun recipe.  I looked forward to tasting
pumpkin in something other than a dessert and was delighted with the
results. Ann Decher of the Club Seabourne Mini Resort sent the
recipe."

From Ann Decher/Club Seabourne Mini Resort/Culebra as per the request
of Louisvillian Bobbie M. Rucker in Alice Colombo's 11/17/93 "Cook's
Corner" column called "Club Seabourne's Pumpkin Soup Made for a Tasty
Trip to Culebra" in "The (Louisville, KY) Courier-Journal."  Pg. E4.
Typed for you by Cathy Harned.
Submitted By CATHY HARNED   On   12-01-94

