Title: Coconut Cream Fudge
Categories: Candy, Holiday
Yield: 64 pieces
3 1/2 c  Sugar
2 ts Vanilla extract
1/2 c  Shredded coconut; plus 1 tb
9 tb Unsalted butter, softened,
-divided
3/4 c  Whipping cream
1/2 c  Half-n-half
I made this one, it was a great success!  Yummy!!

Line an 8" square baking pan with aluminum foil that extends
:
over the sides, then butter the foil with 1 tb of the butter.  Set a
side.
In a 3-qt heavy bottomed suacepan, over medium heat, cook the
:
cream, hal-n-half, sugar, salt and the remeaining 8 tb of butter
unitl the sugar is dissolved and the butter is melted (about 5
minutes), stirring constantly with a long handled spoon.  Bring the
mixture to a boil, then brush down the sides of the pan with a pastry
brush dipped in warm water, to preven the sugar from chystallinzing.
Place a sugar therometer in the pan and cook the mixture without
stirring until it registers 238 degrees on a candy thermometer (about
12 minutes).
Remove the pan from the heat, remove the thermometer form the
:
pan, and place the thermometer in warm water.  Stir in the vanilla
extract. Sprinkle a marble board or the back of a baking sheet with
cold water, and immediately pour the hot mixture onto the marble.  Do
not scrape out the bottom of the pan.  Let the mixtrue cool ont he
marble until it registers 110 on the thermometer (about 5 minutes, or
15 if using a baking sheet)
Transfer the fudge into a bowl and beat by hand or with a
:
mixer until it starts to thicken and loses it's shine, (about 10
minutes). Mix in the coconut and vanilla.  Turn the fudge into the
prepared pa. Use your fingers to even out the top and press into
corners fo the pan. Place the pan on a cooling rack and let it set
completely at room temperature (1 or 2 hours).
Remove the fudge from the pan by lifting out the almuminum
:
foil. Invert the fuge onto a cutting board and peel off the foil. Cut
into 1" squares with a large  chef's knife.  Between layers of fudge
place waxed paper and store in a tightly covered container.  It will
keep for 1 month in the fridge or 10 days at room temperature.
Source: Truffles, Candies and Confections   by Carole Bloom Found for
you by Fran McGee
Submitted By FRAN MCGEE   On   12-03-94

