Title: Czech Yirtrnicky
Categories: Pork, Sausage, Homemade
Yield: 1 batch
Ground allspice
Ground cloves
Grated lemon rind
Marjoram
Finely minced garlic
Ascorbic acid
Saltpeter
Medium size hog casings
1    Pig head
1    Pair of lungs
1    Pork heart
2    Pork kidneys
1/2    Pork liver, freshly sliced
Stale bread
Sa;t
Fine grind black pepper
So far this recipe looks like something you might expect to find in a
midevil manual for prospective homemakers, but it gets easier. In a
very large kettle, boil the pigs head 4-5 hours unti the meat begins
to fall from the bone. While the head is merrily (but gently)
bubbling away, in a separate kettle boil the lungs, heart, and
kidneys for about two hours or until the meat is tender. Chill the
liver slices in the freezer for a half an hour and aftr cutting them
into cubes, put throught the coarse disk of the grinder. When the
head and organs are cooked and cool enough to handle, scrape all the
meat from the head, cube the organs, mix with the raw liver, and run
through the fine disk. Determine how much meat you have and for each
part meat, combine with two parts stale white bread that has been
soaked in water and then squeezed dry. Here comes the tricky part:
weigh the entire mixture to determine the amount of seasonings you
will need. Add the following ingredients in the proportions listed: 1
ts salt per pound 1/2 ts black pepper per pound 1/4 ts each allspice
and cloves per pound 1/2 ts each marjoram, grated lemon rind, and
minced garlic per pound Add ascorbic acid at a rate of 1/4 ts per 5
pounds and saltpeter at a rate of 1 ts per ten pounds. Prepare the
casings, stuff and tie off into 6" links. Bring a kettle of water to
a boil and simmer the links unti lthey rise to the top. Do not boil
or the links may burst. Cool in a pot of cool water, pat dry. You can
refrigerate it and eat it cold or rewarm later. Or, smoke at 120 for
about 4 hours or until it is very firm.

Source: Home Sausage Making by Charles G. Reavis ISBN: 0-88266-477-8
Typed by Carolyn Shaw 12-94.
Submitted By CAROLYN SHAW   On   12-03-94

