Title: Dave Winfield's Tuna Steak with Green Chili Salsa
Categories: Fish, Seafood, Main dish
Yield: 4 servings
4 T  Cilantro, chopped
2 lb Tuna steak
1/2 c  Olive oil
1    Head red leaf lettuce,washed
Freshly ground black pepper
-to taste
2 c  Tomatoes, diced
1/2 c  Onion, chopped very fine
1 cn Mild green chilies, drained
-(4 oz)
2    Jalapeno peppers, minced
1/4 c  Fresh lime juice
"I believe that eating right is what has kept me around so long." says
41-year-old Dave Winfield of his 20-year baseball career. "There are
certain things you can do to increase your stamina and to enhance your
health and performance that begin with good nutrition. It's not all
genetics." The Minnesota Twins outfielder's fondness for fruits,
vegetables, and fish helps keep him fit, and he's a strong advocate of
smart eating. "When you shop for food, read the labels," he advises.
"Check the fat and sodium content. In a restaurant, don't be afraid
to ask a lot of questions about how a dish is prepared.

Health and education are the things I believe you need to make it in
life," he says. And he's made a serious effort to support both: In
1977, Winfield established the New Jersey-based David M. Winfield
Foundation to help promote health and fitness. Instruction there
includes nutritional counseling, cooking classes, and weight-control
programs.

And though Winfield is better known for wonders worked while wearing a
batting glove - knocking out more homers (432) that anyone else
currently playing - he's no slouch in a pair of oven mitts, either,
as this recipe for broiled tuna with salsa proves.

For the salsa: Mix tomatoes, onion, chilies, peppers, lime juice, and
cilantro. Set aside for at least 1 hour to enhance flavor. Preheat
broiler. Brush tuna with olive oil on both sides. Meanwhile, warm
salsa in a saucepan over low heat for about 5 minutes, stirring
constantly. Broil tuna for approximately 5 minutes on each side, or
until cooked through. Line four plates with lettuce and arrange a
portion of tuna on each. Top with warm salsa and black pepper.
Submitted By MICHAEL ORCHEKOWSKI   On   10-31-94

