Title: Edible Flowers Information Page 3.
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 servings
No Ingredients Found
Source: The National Culinary Review, June'94 Ways with edible
flowers In Cooking with Flowers by Jenny Leggatt, the author writes
that a cold dish of stuffed eggs laid on a bed of young sorrel and
tarragon becomes stunning with the addition of a few bright anchusa
flowers. She also writes that crystallized rose petals or violets
enhance sorbet or homemade ice cream, while an ordinary green salad
can be brought to life by throwing in some brightly colored
nasturtium flowers. According to Leggatt, food should be appealing
not only to the taste buds, but especially to the eye because the eye
stimulates and alerts the taste buds. "Flowers are amazingly
versatile." Leggatt says, if you use them with imagination, they will
offer endless delight." For example: Salads at the start or end of a
meal become showstoppers with the addition of colorful flowers, such
as viola, chive and rocket blos- soms. It goes without saying here
that freshness is the key to a successful spring salad with flowers.
Dressings should be light and uncomplicated. Toss just before serving
so that the flowers do not wilt. Flower-flavored butters can enhance
bread, fish, breakfast dishes, pastas and vegetables.  They are
simple to make and keep for a week in the refrigerator.  To make
one-half cup of flower butter, combine a stick of unsalted butter,
softened, with two tablespoons of finely chopped flowers. Blend well.
Salt, pepper, lemon juice or chopped shallots may added to taste.
Flower butters are best made with the flowers from basil, calendula,
chive, coriander, dill, fennel, nasturtium and viola plants. Flower
jelly can be made with rose petals as well as petals from fruit trees
~ apple, lemon, orange and plum.  You can also make flower jelly with
anise hyssop, basil, bergamot, elder, lilac, pineapple sage and
scented geraniums. Flower vinegars are wonderful in salads, sauces,
mayonnaise, vegetables and stir-fry dishes.  Use the more savory and
herb like flowers: anise hyssop, basil, chives, dill, fennel, lovage,
marigold, marjoram, oregano and nasturtium.  Combine with rice-wine
vinegar or white-wine vinegar, mild and slightly sweet, which allows
the flower flavors to shine through.  These particular vinegars also
allow the colours of the flowers to bleed.  Chive blossoms, for
example, added to white-wine vinegar will result in a rosy pink
mixture. Flower-scented sugars, using sweeter aromatic flowers such
as anise hyssop, lavender, lilac, rose, scented geraniums and
violets, can easily be made and then used to create unusual cakes,
cookies, custards and whipping cream. Submitted By SHERREE JOHANSSON
On   10-23-94

