Title: Fayette County Chow-Chow
Categories: Can/preserv, Condiment, Relish
Yield: 1 batch
12 md Garden cucumbers (unwaxed)
8 c  Sugar
2 qt Cider vinegar
1 c  All-purpose flour
1/2 c  Dry mustard
3 tb Turmeric
1 tb Celery seeds
1 tb Mustard seeds
3 lb Tiny gherkin cucumbers*
3 lb Tiny pickling onions
1 1/2    Heads cauliflower
-- cut into flowerets
2 1/4 c  Uniodized salt
;Ice water
24 sm Onions
8 lg Red bell peppers
-- cored and seeded
*If they are not really tiny, gherkins should be sliced in half
lengthwise.

Set out 6 bowls large enough to hold the individual vegetables.

Put the gherkins, pickling onions and cauliflower in separate bowls.
Add 1/4 cup of salt to each bowl; pour in ice water to cover.  Leave
loosely covered in a cool place, preferably the refrigerator, all day
or overnight.

Meanwhile, chop the small onions, peppers and cucumbers separately,
and put them in separate bowls.  Add 1/2 cup salt to each and cover
with ice water. Leave loosely covered in a cool place, preferably the
refrigerator, all day or overnight.

The next day, drain all the vegetables thoroughly.

In a heavy stainless steel or enamel kettle, combine 6 cups of sugar
with 6 cups of vinegar.  Bring to a boil and stir in all of the
vegetables, mixing them well.

Quickly mix the flour, mustard and turmeric with the remaining 2 cups
of vinegar until it is very smooth.  Stir the paste, along with the
celery and mustard seeds, into the vegetables 3 to 4 minutes, until
sauce has thickened and flour does not taste raw.

Taste for sweetness.  Add up to 2 cups more sugar if desired, but
cook it long enough to dissolve it well.

Spoon into hot sterilized jars to 1/4" from the top of each jar. Seal
at once, cool and refrigerate.

Yield: About 8 pints.

Glenn writes: "This is a recipe given to me years ago by a good
friend and excellent cook in Lexington.  It is a favorite Kentucky
chow-chow, a bit sweeter than most.  We like it with warm ham, roasts
and chicken sandwiches - and with all kinds of beans.  In Mississippi
they say you have to have chow-chow with black-eyed peas."

From Camille Glenn's 09/01/93 "Flavor to Taste" column called "Garden
of Eatin': Preserve Late-Summer Vegetables for Savoring All Winter"
in "The (Louisville, KY) Courier-Journal."  Pg. C10. Typed for you by
Cathy Harned. Submitted By CATHY HARNED   On   11-29-94

