Title: Fish Sausages-Information
Categories: Can/preserv, Fish, Seafood, Information
Yield: 1 servings
1    Text
Scampi sausage? As strange as the idea might seem, a perfectly
delecious, appetizing, and appealing sausage can indeed be made from
fish. But why bother? The reasons are simple. Fish is good for you.
It is low in fat (and recent studies indicate that fish that is
relatively high in fat may even be better for you.) It can also be
very economical. Underutilized species of fish sell at reasonable
prices. Just recently on a tour through my local supermarket,
flounder was selling for $7.00 a pound, but pollock, a perfectly
desirable fish, was on special for less than $2.00 a pound. In fact,
frozen pollock was at its regular price of $1.69 a pound. And there
is no waste. And most importantly, fish is delecious. It is also
amenable to just about any treatment that one might wish to give it.
When making sausages from fish there are a couple of things we must
keep in mind. First of all, it isn't necessary to spend a fortune on
shrimp or lobster or other expensive species to make a shrimp or
lobster sausage. The reason is that most white fish have a binding
property when minced and cooked that will serve as a vehicle for the
more expensive ingredients in our sausage. Second, there is
practially no waste, especially when using fish fillets, and
therefore one can make less than one would when using meat and still
have plenty of finished product to serve the same number of people.
One additional note: it helps to have a food processor if you plan on
making fish sausages. fish can be ground in a food grinder, but the
procedure for making fish sausage is greatly simplified by using a
processor. As with all recipes in this book, consider the ones that
follow as guides or starting points. Experiment with quantities and
varities of spices to suit your individual tastes. When making a
batch of sausage, cook up a apoonful of your seasoned mixture to tste
for seasonings, and adjust them to suit your fancy. Although the
following recipes give instructions for stuffing the sausages into
casings, perfectly acceptable sausage can be made by shaping the
seasoned mixture into patties. Cooking instructions for all the
sausages are basically the same. They can be steamed, baked
(covered), or microwaved. They can also be sauteed in a little
vegetable oil or butter. Just remember we're dealing with fish, and
fish doesn't take a long time to cook. One final note: recipes that
specify "whitefish" mean you can use practically any white fleshed
fish that is reasonably priced.

Source: Home Sausage Making by Charles G. Reavis ISBN: 0-88266-477-8
Typed by Carolyn Shaw 12-94.
Submitted By CAROLYN SHAW   On   12-09-94

