Title: Foraging for Food Has Fallen on Hard Times
Categories: Fruit, Information
Yield: 1 info below
1    Info below
"Not so many people forage for food anymore, Marilyn Kluger, author
of 'The Wild Flavor,' who grew up in Southern Indiana, reflects on
the changing rhythms of life that prevent us from foraging.

"In her book, she recalls that while the males of her extended family
clan would tramp off to hunt quail, the females and youngsters would
head for the fence rows and woods to collect persimmons and nuts.
Today, she comments, agribusiness has cleared many fields and
eliminated a lot of the fence rows where persimmon trees grow, and
people 'are not connected to nature the way they used to.'

"There's something else - the McDonaldization of America - that
trains us to expect that uniform flavor and texture are the best
qualities you can expect from food.  We've learned to dread
surprises, and we prefer a bland but predictable Delicious apple over
a more risky McIntosh or Gala."

"Though Sharron Barker is an enthusiastic and experimental cook, she
was naturally disappointed when a batch of persimmon coffeecake -
modified from a pumpkin recipe - turned too astringent to eat, at
least around the edge. Strangely, an inch or so into the cake,
everything was fine, the taste delicious.

"As a cook, Barker was uncomfortable with her final product; who
wouldn't be.  Baking takes time and money.  Nobody wants a failure.

"On the other hand, it was intriguing.  Barker had made so many other
dishes from the same batch of persimmon pulp: bread, cookies, butter
and pudding.  Why weren't they astringent?"

"The answer's to be found in the chapter 'Persimmons Unpuckered' from
Harold McGee's book 'The Curious Cook.'  McGee quotes a 1915 Farmers'
Bulletin by W.F. Fletcher:

"'Since heat makes the astringency of the persimmon more apparent, it
is always well to add one-half teaspoonful of baking soda to each
cupful of persimmon pulp in all recipes where the fruit is subjected
to heat. Although it has been proved by experiment that the soda may
be omitted if the fruit is entirely free from astringency, it is
better to use it until one is sure of the quality of the persimmon
pulp.'

"The edges of the persimmon coffeecake became hotter than the
interior of the cake, which explains why they became astringent.  Cut
away the sides, and the coffeecake was perfect.  Virtually all
recipes for persimmons that require heating also call for baking
soda."

"McGee's research discovered other ways to counteract the astringency,
including heating Saran Wrapped-persimmons at about 100 degrees for
several hours.  Of course, gathering ultraripe persimmons, or soft
fruits after the frost, will guarantee sweet fruit.

"These techniques help novices who might otherwise be reluctant to
gather food without an assurance that every bite will be exactly the
same."

From Food Editor Sarah Fritschner's 10/12/94 "Foraging for Food Has
Fallen on Hard Times" article in "The (Louisville, KY)
Courier-Journal." Pg. C6. Posted by Cathy Harned.
Submitted By CATHY HARNED   On   10-24-94

