Title: Frank's N'awlins Cabbage Rolls
Categories: Vegetable, Cajun/creol, Main dish, Meat, Rice
Yield: 1 servings
1 T  Worcestershire sauce
1/2 t  Thyme [crumbled, if dry]
2 t  Basil [crumbled, if dry]
1 c  Beef stock
2 c  Cooked rice
1 ea Large can Rotel Tomatoes
Salt and pepper to taste
1/4 c  Grated Parmesan cheese
1/2 c  Shredded Provolone cheese
1 ea Large head of green cabbage
1 ea Medium head of red cabbage
2 oz Butter (1/2 stick)
2 t  Red wine vinegar
1 lb Lean ground beef
1 lb Lean ground pork
1 ea Large onion - finely diced
4 ea Green onions - sliced
5 ea Cloves garlic - minced
2 ea Ribs celery - finely diced
First, pull off 8 to 10 large cabbage leaves (you can mix the red and
the green cabbage to give the dish added color).  Then place the
leaves into a 4-quart Dutch oven or stock pot and simmer them in
aobut an inch of boiling water for about 5 minutes until tender.  BUT
DO NOT OVERCOOK OR THEY WILL TEAR APART WHEN YOU TRY TO STUFF THEM!
Now lay them out on paper towels and allow them to drain. Meanwhile,
shred the remaining cabbage (both red and green). Then, in a 12-inch
skillet, melt the butter and quickly stir-fry the cabbage. About
halfway through the cooking process, add the wine vinegar and cook
until most of the pungent aroma is gone.  When done (and it should
take about 8 minutes), set the mix aside to cool. Next, using a
12-inch frypan, saute the ground beef and pork together until lightly
browned. Then toss in the onions, celery, green onions, garlic,
thyme, basil anhd Worcestershire sauce. Continue cooking until the
vegetables have wilted.  Then, using a strainer, drain off all the
excess grease. Now place the meat mixture back into the frypan, stir
in the cooked cabbage and the beef stock, and simmer the meat mix
until most of the beef stock liquid evaporates. At this point, remove
the frypan from the heat, mix in the rice, and season to taste with
salt and pepper. Then fill each cabbage leaf with about a 1/4-cup or
so of meat stuffing and roll it up, folding the sides over to the
center.  Next, place each of the rolls into a lightly oiled casserole
dish. Then, with the same pan you used to saute the meat mix, simmer
the tomato sauce and Rotel together until the mixture turns hot and
bubbly and begins to thicken slightly. All that's left is to ladle
the sauce over the cabbage rolls, sprinkle the top with grated
Parmesan and provolone, and bak at 350F. for about an hour.

Hint from Frank:  I suggest you serve the rolls with buttered parsley
potatoes and crunchy cornbread.  Incidentally, any extra stuffing you
have left can be simmered into the tomato sauce mixture.  And if you
have any extra cabbage left over, place it around the cabbage rolls
in the casserole dish before baking.

Recipe from "Frank Davis Cooks Naturally N'Awlins". Source: Frank
Davis

per serving:
Approx. Cook Time: Cholesterol per
Calories
grams per serving:
serving: Marks:

Submitted By MICHELLE BASS   On   12-07-94

