Title: Golden Cheese Babka
Categories: Holiday, Cheese/eggs, Bread, Fruit
Yield: 1 servings
2 ea Eggs
1/3 c  Light cream or
Evaporated milk, warmed
1 c  Golden Raisins
1 ea Envelope active dry yeast
1/4 c  Warm water
3/4 t  Salt
MMMMM-----------------------CHEESE FILLING----------------------------
1 T  Grated lemon rind
2 ea Egg yolks
1/2 c  Unsalted butter, softened
2 T  Light Rum
1/3 c  Sugar
4 c  Sifted flour
Beat: 1 8oz softened cream cheese   1/2 cup cottage cheese In small
bowl with electric mixer, beat in: 1/4 cup sugar 1 egg yolk Sugar
Icing: Blend until smooth: 1 Cup Confectioners sugar 2 tbsp. water
Combine raisins and rum in a small bowl:  let stand while mixing the
dough. Sprinkle yeast and 1/4 tsp. sugar into very warm water in 1
cup measure. Stir to dissolve. Let stand until bubbly, about 10 min.
Combine the remaining sugar, 2 cups flour, salt and lemon rind in a
large bowl: make a well in the center. Beat eggs and yolks in a small
bowl just to mix. Pour eggs, yeast mix, and warmed cream into the
well. Stir liquids into flour until smooth. Beat Well. Add softened
butter gradually, beating well. Stir in 1-1/2 cups of remaining
flour.  Beat until dough leaves sides of bowl. Turn out onto lightly
floured surface: knead until smooth and elastic, about 10 minutes,
using enough of the remaining flour to keep dough from sticking.
Place in a large buttered bowl: turn to bring buttered side up. Cover
with a clean towel. Let rise in a warm place away from drafts, 1-1/2
to 2 hours or until doubled in volume. Prepare cheese filling: When
dough has doubled, punch down, knead in raisins: divide dough into 2
pieces. Roll each piece out to circle: spread cheese filling over top
and roll up. sealing edges and shape into 2 oval loaves. Cover and
let rise in warm place away from drafts till doubled (2 Hours) Bake
moderate oven for 35 min or until loaves sound hollow. Cool on wire
rack. Drizzle sugar icing over top while babka is still warm. From:
Lancaster Farming Shared By: Pat Stockett

Submitted By PAT STOCKETT   On   11-01-94

