Title: Green Bean Bundles in Sweet Pepper Sauce
Categories: Beans, Vegetable
Yield: 4 servings
1/2 ts Salt
4 lg Sweet red peppers (abt. 4 c)
-- cored, seeded & chopped
Fresh basil sprigs
3 md Leeks (12 ounces)
40    Snap beans (about 12 ounces)
2 tb Olive oil
3/4 c  Dry white wine
3 tb Snipped fresh basil
Rinse leeks under running water.  Trim root and leaves from leeks,
carefully separating 1 leaf, about 2" wide, from remaining leaves.

In a large skillet, cook leaf, uncovered, in boiling water about 1
minute or until tender and bright green.  Remove leaf; drain on paper
towel. When cool, cut leaf lengthwise into 1/4" wide strips.

For bean bundles, trim ends and strings from beans.  Gather beans into
bunches of 5.  Carefully tie each bundle with a cooled leek leaf
strip; trim ends.  Place bean bundles in steamer basket.  Steam over
boiling water for 15 to 20 minutes, until tender.  Season with salt
and pepper.

Meanwhile, for sauce, chop white part of leeks.  (You should have
about 1 cup.)  In the same large skillet, cook chopped leeks in 1 tb.
of hot oil about 5 minutes or until tender.  Add the white wine,
basil and salt. Reduce heat; cook about 3 minutes or until most of
the liquid has evaporated; set aside.

In another skillet, cook red pepper in 1 tb. hot oil about 10 minutes
or until tender.  Remove red pepper, reserving oil in skillet.  In the
reserved oil, cook yellow pepper about 6 minutes or until tender.

In a blender container or food processor bowl, combine red pepper and
2/3 cup of the wine mixture.  Cover and blend or process until
smooth; set aside.  In a clean blender container or food processor
bowl, combine the yellow pepper and the remaining wine mixture; cover
and blend or process until smooth.

Serve sauce warm or at room temperature with beans.  Garnish with
additional basil.

From "A Basil Bouquet" article in "Country Gardens" magazine.  Fall
1993. Pg. 16.  Sent to me by my friend Joyce Shillings of Port
Lavaca, TX. Posted by Cathy Harned.
Submitted By CATHY HARNED   On   10-19-94

