Title: Hamida Begum's Stuffed Lime Pickle/bhare Nimboo Ka Aacha
Categories: Fruit, Can/preserv, Herbs/spice, Indian, Relish
Yield: 1 batch
1 lb Garlic cloves; peeled
1 lb Salt
3 3/4 c  Mustard oil
12    Green chiles
200    Limes
1 1/4 lb Dried red chiles
1 c  Mustard seeds
1/2 c  Cumin seeds
1/2 c  Onion seeds
Squeeze the juice of 100 of the limes into a large bowl, cover, and
reserve.

Put the rest of the limes in a large saucepan or preserving pan,
cover with plenty of water, and bring to a boil.  Simmer until they
are tender. Drain the limes, dry them with a tea towel, and put them
aside.

Pound the red chiles fine in a mortar or grind them in a food
processor or in batches in a blender.

Put the mustard seeds in a frying pan over low heat and dry-roast
them for 2 to 3 minutes, shaking the pan occasionally.  The seeds
should begin to release their aroma.  Repeat with the cumin seeds and
then the onion seeds.

Combine the mustard, cumin and onion seeds.  Take two-thirds of the
mixture and pound it fine in a mortar or grind it in a food processor
or in batches in a blender.

Blend the remaining seed mixture with the ground red chiles and the
pounded or ground seed mixture.

Pound the garlic cloves to a paste in a mortar or a food processor or
in batches in a blender with a little water, then drain off the
water. Mix the garlic with the chile and seed mixture, adding salt
and a little of the lime juice to make a paste.

Cut the boiled limes halfway down into four.  Spread the spice paste
well into the limes, put them in a large container, and add the rest
of the lime juice.

Warm the oil until it begins to sputter, then pour it over the stuffed
limes and whole green chiles.

When the mixture is cool enough, transfer it to glass or ceramic
bottles and cover with nonmetallic, airtight lids.  Store in a cool,
dark place or the refrigerator.

Yield: About 10 pints.

Preparation and cooking time: 2 1/2 to 3 hours, plus cooling and
bottling.

Merchant writes: "This recipe, which figures prominently in _The
Courtesans of Bombay_, will produce enough pickle to last an entire
family for quite a long time, as one can imagine.  It is so good that
there is always great demand for it from friends and family.  You
can, of course, reduce the quantities proportionally."

From _Ismail Merchant's Indian Cuisine_ by Ismail Merchant.  New York:
Simon & Schuster, Inc., 1986.  ISBN 0-671-68477-9. Pp. 232-233.
Posted by Cathy Harned.
Submitted By CATHY HARNED   On   10-26-94

