Title: Herman Honey Oat Bread
Categories: Bread
Yield: 2 servings
1/4 c  Butter or margarine
1/3 c  Honey
2 ts Salt
2 c  Rolled oats, reg. or quick
6 c  All purpose or bread flour
2/3 c  Herman Starter
1/3 c  Warm water
1 tb Honey
2 pk Dry yeast
1 1/2 c  Boiling water
In small bowl sprinkle 1 Tablespoon honey and the yeast over warm
water. Let proof for 10 minutes.  In a large bowl pour the boiling
water. Add honey, butter, salt, and oats.  Stir well.  After mixture
cools stir in yeast mixture and Herman Starter.  Stir well.  Add 3
cups of the flour, beating in 1 cup at a time.  Beat in enough of the
remaining flour to make a stiff dough.  Place a cup of flour on
kneading board and using a spatula scrape dough onto board and knead
10 minutes.

Form dough into a ball and place ina buttered bowl, turning to grease
all sides of dough.  Cover with a floured plastic wrap and let rise
in a warm place until doubled, approximately 1 1/2 hours.  Punch
dough down; cover with plastic wrap and let rest 10 minutes.  Knead
briefly on floured board. Cut dough in half with serrated knife and
form each half into a loaf. Place each loaf into greased loaf pan.
Cover with plastic wrap and let rise until doubled, 45 to 60 minutes.
Bake at 350 degrees for 50 to 60 minutes, or until loaves sound
hollow when tapped. Remove from pans and cool on a rack. For soft
crust, brush with butter immediately after taking from pans.

VARIATION:  To make a delicious raisin bread add 2 teaspoons (or more)
cinnamon and 1 teaspoon allspice in with the first 3 cups flour.
Before beating in the last of the flour, add two cups (we like lots)
You can also
of raisins and proceed with the recipe as above.
make buns from this recipe - instead of putting in loaf pans just
make a small ball of dough and put it in a muffin tin - the ball
should fill the muffin cup about half full.  These buns will not take
as long to cook so watch them carefully. Enjoy!

Typed by Jan Gordon, Posted by Vince Gordon, Intercook, 5/93
Submitted By FRAN MCGEE   On   10-22-94

