Title: Huevos Reales (Royal Eggs) 2
Categories: So. america, Tex/mexican, Dessert, Cheese/eggs
Yield: 8 servings
2 c  Sugar
1 c  Cold water
1    Stick cinnamon, 2 inch piece
1/4 c  Pine nuts
3    Egg whites
12    Egg yolks
1/2 c  Sweet sherry
2 tb Seedless raisins
Preheat the oven to 325 degrees (F).  In a large mixing bowl, beat
the egg whites with a whisk or a rotary or electric beater until they
are stiff enough to form soft peaks.  In another bowl, beat the egg
yolks until they thicken enough to fall back in a ribbon when the
whisk or beater is lifted out of the bowl.  Then, thoroughly mix the
whites into the yolks, and pour the mixture into a buttered shallow
baking dish about 8 to 9 inches square. Smooth the top with the
spatula.
Place the baking dish in a large shallow roasting pan in the middle
of the oven wand pour enough boiling water into the pan to come
halfway up the sides of the dish.  Bake for about 10 to 15 minutes,
or until the eggs are firm.  Remove the dish for the oven and cool to
room temperature. Then cut the baked eggs into 1 1/2 inch squares
with a knife dipped in hot water.
Combine 1/4 cup of sherry and the raisins in a small bowl and set
aside to soak.  In a small saucepan, bring the sugar, water and
cinnamon stick to a boil over high heat, stirring only until the
sugar is dissolved. Boil briskly, undisturbed, over high heat for 5
minutes. Discard the cinnamon stick and pour the syrup into a shallow
heatproof dish or pan.
With a spatula, place the egg squares in the dish, one at a time,
and when they are almost entirely saturated with syrup, transfer the
squares to individual dessert dishes or a deep platter, arranging
them side by side in one layer.  Strain the remaining syrup through a
fine sieve into a small bowl, stir in the remaining 14 cup of sherry,
and pour as much of the mixture as you like over the egg squares.
Then sprinkle the tops evenly with the presoaked raisins and the pine
nuts.

85 of 108

Source: Time Life Series: Latin American Cooking

MMed by: earl.cravens@salata.com
Submitted By EARL CRAVENS   On   12-17-94

