Title: Irish Creme Fudge (Microwave)
Categories: Candy, Alcohol, Chocolate, Nuts/grains
Yield: 36 servings
3 tb Margarine/butter
1 lb Powdered sugar, unsifted
-(about 3-1/4 cups)
36    Walnut pieces
1 sm Potato (about 5 ounces)
3 tb Irish Creme liqueur
2    Squares (2 oz) unsweetened
-chocolate
Fudge gets texture from potato: potatoes cooked in the microwave oven
give this fudge its unbelievably creamy, fudgey texture.  The mellow
flavor comes from Irish Crem liqueur, used in both the fudge and the
icing. Use a pastry bag to pipe the icing or a spoon to drizzle it
onto the fudge. The added bonux is that this fudge is low in fat.

Designer Icing (recipe follows)

Line an 8x8x2-inch pan with foil. extending foil over the edges of
the pan. Butter foil; set the pan aside.  Prick potato 2 or 3 times
witha fork. Cook on 100% power (High) for 4-5 minute sor until
tender, turning over once. Cool and peel.  Mash potato (you should
have 1/3 cup). Add liqueur, stir until smooth.  Set aside.

In a 2-quart microwave-save casserole combine chocolate and margarine;
cook, uncovered, on High for 1-2 minutes or until almost melted,
stirring once.  Stir until smooth.

Stir potato mixture into chocolate mixture.  Slowly stir in powdered
sugar. Stir or knead until smooth.  Press into the foil-lined pan.
Score into thirty-six 1-1/4-inch squares.  Press a walnut piece into
each square. Cover and chill until firm.  Holding foil at edges,
remove the fudge from the pan; cut into squares.  Drizzle Designer
icing over fudge.

Designer Icing In a small microwave-save bowl, cook 1 Tbsp
margarine/butter on High for 45 seconds or until melted. Beat in 1/3
cup sifted powdered sugar and enough Irish Creme liqueur (1-2 Tbsp)
to ake an icing of piping or drizzling consistency.

Makes 36 pieces.

Per serving: 91 calories, .5 gm protein, 15.7 gm carbohydrate, 3.1 gm
fat, 0 mg cholesterol, 15.7 mg sodium.  Calories from fat: 30
percent. Submitted By RANDY RIGG   Submitted By RANDY RIGG
Submitted By MARY LOU KAKANOWSKI   On   12-21-94

