Title: Israeli Chocolate-Coated Orange Peels
Categories: Candy, Chocolate, Fruit, Jewish
Yield: 1 servings
2 c  Sugar, plus extra for
-rolling
2 T  Fresh lemon juice
5 oz Bittersweet (not
-unsweetened) chocolate,
-finely chopped
2 t  Vegetable oil
I first tasted these peels
-in Israel where they are
-made from the local
Jaffa oranges. Often when
-you drop in at someone's
-home, the hostess will
Set them out for nibbles.
3 ea Oranges
Line a baking sheet with wax paper. Set aside. Scrub oranges well,
and cut in half Scoop out the flesh and reserve for another use.
Place the shells in a medium-sized bowl and cover with cold water,
keeping them under water with a small plate or lid. Let soak for
about 4 hours or overnight, replacing the water once. Cut each shell
in half, and place in a large heavy saucepan. Add water to cover and
bring to a boil over medium high heat. Boil for 15 minutes. Drain and
repeat the process. When oranges are cool enough to handle, cut into
strips about 1/4 by 2 inches. Return the strips to the saucepan, add
sugar and 1 cup water. Bring to a simmer over low heat. Cook gently,
stirring occasionally, until liquid is almost gone, about 1 1/2 to 2
hours. (Watch closely toward the end of cooking.) Add the lemon juice
and stir to coat the strips. Drain the strips in a sieve. When they
are cool enough to handle, spread on the prepared baking sheet. Put
all but 1/4 Cup of the chocolate and the oil in the top of a double
boiler set over barely simmering water. Stir just until melted,
remove double boiler from heat, then add the remaining chocolate,
stirring until melted. Roll each orange strip in sugar, then dip half
of each peel into the chocolate and return to the baking sheet. Place
in the freezer for a minute or two to let the chocolate set. Remove
from the freezer and let them sit for several hours until they are
firm. (Store in an airtight con tainer for up to 3 months.) Makes
about 80 candies. 30 CALORIES EACH: 0 G PROTEIN, I G FAT, 6 G
Carbohydrate MG SODIUM; 0 MG CHOLESTEROL. Shared by: Al Rice

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   11-18-94

