Title: Jamaican Jerk Chicken
Categories: Poultry, Caribbean, Chicken, Main dish
Yield: 1 servings
-would find in Jamaica.
-For that authentic flavor,
Double the quantity of dry
-spices."
This recipe is from Sugar
-Reef Caribbean Cooking, by
-Devra Dedeaux. "This
Recipe is not as hot as you
"JERK.  This method of cooking pork and chicken dates back to the
Carib-Arawak Indians who inhabited Jamaica. After captruing an animal
and thoroughly cleaning and gutting it, the Indians placed it in a
deep pit lined with stones and covered with green wood, which, when
burned,would msoke heavily and add to the flavor. But first, the
carcass was "jerked" with a sharp object to make holes, which were
stuffed with a variety of spices.  The holes also allowed heat to
escape without loss of moisture. The results were superb.  The meat
was not only wonderfully spiced, but moist and tender." (Note: Sugar
Reef is a restaurant in Manhattan.) 1 tbsp ground allspice 1 tbsp
dried thyme 1-1/2 tsp cayenne pepper 1-1/2 tsp freshly ground black
pepper 1-1/2 tsp ground sage 3/4 tsp ground nutmeg 3/4 tsp ground
cinnamon 2 tbsp salt 2 tbsp garlic powder 1 tbsp sugar 1/4 cup olive
oil 1/4 cup soy sauce 3/4 cup white vinegar 1/2 cup orange juice
juice of 1 lime 1 Scotch Bonnet pepper, seeded and finely chopped 1
cup chipped white onion 3 green onions, finely chopped 4 chicken
breasts (6-8oz each, trimmed of fat) In large bowl, combine the dry
spices. With wire whisk, slowly add olive oil, soy sauce, vinegar,
orange juice and lime juice.  Add Scotch Bonnet pepper, onion, and
green onions and mix well. Add Chicken breasts, cover and marinate
for at least 1 hour, longer if possible. Preheat an outdoor grill.
Remove breast from marinade and grill 6 minutes on each side or until
fully cooked. While grilling, baste with marinade.  Heat leftover
marinade and serve on the side for dipping. NOTE* Scotch Bonnet
peppers, also know as "Habaneros" are the hottest of the capsicum
peppers. They're truly incendiary. Substitute Serranos of Thai Bird
Chilies if you can't find them. Origin: FidoNet Home Cooking Echo
Shared by: Sharon Stevens

Submitted By CARL BERGER   On  11-14-93 (17:21)
Submitted By MARY LOU KAKANOWSKI   On   11-29-94

