Title: Jamaican Jerked Chicken
Categories: Pork, Poultry, Caribbean, Chicken
Yield: 6 servings
MMMMM----------------NOTE: JERKED MEAT IS ONE OF---------------------
8 ea Scallions, chopped
1 t  Hot pepper, chopped
1/4 c  Peanut or vegetable oil
1/4 t  Fresh ground pepper
Pickapeppa sauce (see note)
3 ea Chicken breasts, split,
Whole allspice berries
1/2 t  Ground cinnamon
1 lg Clove garlic, chopped
3 T  Red-wine vinegar
1/2 t  Salt
2 ea Bay leaves, crumbled
There are a few tendencies
-which give Jamaican food
-its characteristic
Flavor, but one of the main
-things is the
-preponderance of the
-allspice
Berry among the spices used
-as a paste-type marinade.
6 ea Loin pork chops
6 ea Chicken legs 2 oz
1/4 t  Fresh grated nutmeg
Cut away rind and most fat from pork; remove all meat from bones, cut
into pieces about 1-1/2" thick and 3" to 4" long.  Put pork pieces
and chicken in a large bowl, cover and refrigerate until needed. To
prepare seasoning, heat the allspice berries over medium heat in
small saucepan 3 to 4 min, stirring often; 2 tbs at a time, crush
berries in mortar and pestle. In medium bowl, combine berries,
nutmeg, cinnamon, scallions, garlic, pepper and 1 tbs vinegar; crush
into pasty mixture. Add rest of vinegar, oil, salt, pepper and bay
leaves. Turn mixture over pork and chicken and rub meat with
seasoning, coating evenly. Cover and refrigerate 2 hours or
overnight. Cook jerked pork and chicken on grill over hot coals or on
gas barbecue as far from heat as possible (6" or more); cover with
lid; turn meat every 10 minutes for about 1 hour, until done.  If
desired, halfway through cooking time toss 1 tsp whole allspice
berries into fire. Cut cooked pork into 1/3" slices and serve with
chicken. Accompany with Pickapeppa sauce.  Serves 6 to 8. (Note: Can
also be cooked in preheated 350 F oven on rack in roasting pan about
1 hour, turning once, but you won't have the grill flavor.
(Pickapeppa sauce is a bottled Jamaican condiment available in better
supermarkets and gourmet stores.)

Submitted By SAM WARING   On  11-14-93 (09:34)
Submitted By MARY LOU KAKANOWSKI   On   11-29-94

