Title: Jambalaya (Kosher)
Categories: Meat, Beef, Cajun/creol, Jewish, Main dish
Yield: 4 servings
No Ingredients Found
Chicken, homemade sausage, vegetables, and rice cook with aromatic
herbs, and spices in this version of jambalaya. The mixture cooks in
chicken broth, and the rice absorbs the broth to become moist,
fluffy, richly seasoned by the the meats, vegtables, and seasonings.
Creole jambalyas contaon ham and pork sausages, but this adaptation
is authentic in all other respects. 2 tb Vegetable Oil 4 ea Chicken
thighs with legs, disjointed 3 c Onions; chopped 1/2 c Green Pepper;
chopped 1 c Scallion Tops (green part only); thinly sliced 1 tb
Garlic; minced 3 tb Parsley; fresh; chopped 1 1/2 ts Black Pepper;
fresh; ground 1-2 ts Salt 1/2 ts Chili Powder 1/4 ts Cayenne Pepper;
ground 1/2 ts Bayleaf; crushed 1/4 ts Basil; dried 1 lb Homemade
Creole Sausage (see recipe); shaped into 1 1/2 inch balls 1 1/2 c
White Rice; raw; long-grained 3 c Chicken Broth

In a 8-quart pot, heat the oil over moderately high heat. Brown the
chicken pieces well all over, turning them as necessary. Transfer the
browned chicken to a bowl, leaving the drippings in the pot. To the
pot add the chopped onions, green pepper, scallion tops, garlic and
parsley. Reduce the heat to medium and cook, stirring often, for 12
to 15 minutes, until the vegetables are beginning to brown. Stir in
the seasonings, then add the sausage balls. Cook for about 5 minutes,
shaking the pan often to lightly brown the sausage all over. Now
sprinkle in the rice, add the chicken broth, stir gently, and return
the browned chicken pieces to the pot. Raise the heat to bring the
liquid to the boil, then turn down the heat to low so the broth boils
gently. Cover the pot, and cook for 45 minutes, stirring
occasionally. The rice should always be covered by liquid, and the
chicken pieces should be so all sides are in the gravy from time to
time. Taste after 45 minutes. If the rice is not tender and fluffy,
continue cooking, covered. When the rice is done, remove the cover
and cook for another 10 minutes to dry out the rice a bit. Stir as
necessary to keep the rice from sticking. Serves 4. From:
International Cooking For The KosherHome By: Betty S. Goldberg

Submitted By SAM LEFKOWITZ   On   11-10-94

