Title: Kiwifruit Pineapple Jam
Categories: Can/preserv, Fruit
Yield: 1 batch
-chopped fresh pineapple
-- (4 cups)
3 c  Sugar
6 lg Kiwifruits (3 cups)
-- cut into wedges
1 lb 10 oz. peeled, cored and
Peel and quarter kiwifruits lengthwise.  Cut them into thin pie-shaped
wedges (if using a food processor, chop 3 kiwi fruits at a time,
quartered, with rapid on and off motions, until they are 1/2" bits.)

Cut each pineapple quarter lengthwise into 6 sections, then crosswise
into wedges.  (Cut pieces into a uniform size and process 1/2 the
pieces at a time with rapid on and off motions in the food processor.)

Combine the pineapple and 2 cups kiwifruit pieces in a heavy,
nonreactive 4-quart pan.  Reserve remaining kiwifruit (about 1 cup).

Bring fruits to a boil with 1 cup sugar.  Reduce heat to a gentle
simmer, cover the pot, and simmer for 10 minutes.  Uncover the pan,
turn up heat to medium-high, and vigorously simmer the fruit for 5
minutes, stirring regularly.

Begin adding the remaining sugar 1/2 cup at a time.  Continue to boil
for 10 more minutes or until the jam reaches 216 F. and passes the
spoon test. To make the spoon test, raise a metal spoon filled with
the hot jam above the pot and empty it from the side.  If jam falls
from the spoon in a single sheet rather than in isolated drops, the
jam has reached 216 F.

Off the heat, stir in the remaining pieces of kiwifruit.  Boil jam
until it thickens again and the temperature returns to 216 F.  This
will take another 5 minutes.

Off the heat, skim foam from the surface and fill hot, sterilized
jars to within 1/8" of lips.  Wipe the rims clean, attach new lids,
and screw caps on tightly.  Invert jars for a quick vacuum seal or
process in a boiling water bath, submerged by 1 inch, for 10 minutes.

Yield: 3 1/2 cups.

The author writes that kiwifruit's "acid green color and tiny black
seeds are quite dramatic, but fade as you cook it, so I always add
some fruit just at the end of the cooking process.

"The pineapple and kiwifruit have similar flavor profiles.  They are
lusciously sweet when ripe but acidic to the point of astringency
before that.  The sugar you add will temper the fruit acid and allow
their distinct and complementary tastes to mingle."

From _Gourmet Preserves Chez Madelaine_ by Madelaine Bullwinkel.
Chicago: Contemporary Books, Inc., 1985.  ISBN 0-8092-5339-9.  Pp.
48-49. Posted by Cathy Harned.
Submitted By CATHY HARNED   On   10-22-94

