Title: Martha Shulman's Pumpkin and White Bean Soup
Categories: Main dish, Soup/stew, Vegetable, Beans
Yield: 1 batch
-- washed well and minced
1 lb Pumpkin or winter squash
-- peeled and chopped
2    Garlic cloves
-- peeled and minced
Salt and pepper; to taste
6    To 10 fresh sage leaves
-- slivered if large
1 lb Navy or Great Northern beans
2 qt ;Water
1    Onion stuck with
2    Cloves
1    Bay leaf
2 1/4 ts Salt; or to taste
1 tb Olive oil
2 md Leeks; white part only
MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
Additional sage leaves
Soak beans overnight in plenty of water to cover.

Drain beans and combine in a pot with the 2 quarts water, onion and
bay leaf.  Bring to a boil and skim off any foam that rises.  Reduce
heat, cover, and simmer for 1 hour.  Add 2 tsp. salt; continue to
simmer.

Heat olive oil in a large saucepan or non-stick skillet over
medium-low heat and add the leeks.  Cook, stirring, until leeks
soften, about 5 minutes.  Add the pumpkin and garlic and sprinkle
with 1/4 tsp. salt. Continue to cook for 5 minutes, stirring often,
until the pumpkin begins to soften.

Ladle in some stock from the beans.  Stir together and transfer the
pumpkin mixture to the bean pot.  Cover and simmer 30 to 50 minutes,
until the beans are thoroughly tender, even mushy.  Taste; adjust
salt and add pepper.

Remove the bay leaf and cloves from the onion.  Return the onion to
the soup.  Put the soup through the fine or medium blade of a food
mill and return to the heat.  Stir in the slivered sage and heat
through gently, stirring.  Serve, garnishing each bowl with
additional fresh sage.

Yield: 6 to 8 servings.

Fritschner writes: "In Provence, French cooks puree pumpkin with white
beans to make soup.  In fact, pumpkin and squash purees make delicious
'cream' soups; their natural creaminess eliminates the need for cream
and its calories.  You can make [this] bean soup or try cooking just
the squash with chicken broth and onions and seasoning it with
jalapeno peppers. No cinnamon in sight, but it's incomparably
delicious."

From Food Editor Sarah Fritschner's 10/19/94 "Pumpkins: Beyond Pie"
article in "The (Louisville, KY) Courier-Journal."  Pg. C4.  Posted
by Cathy Harned.
Submitted By CATHY HARNED   On   10-19-94

