Title: Mocha Marjolaine
Categories: Cake/cookie, Chocolate, Nuts/grains
Yield: 10 servings
MMMMM----------------KEYWORDS: HAZELNUT, HOLIDAY,---------------------
A beautiful balance of creamy and crunchy combines in a delicious
blend of mocha and chocolate for this company special dessert. My
notes.. I wish you could see the picture of this one guys.. It looks
FABULOUS!! 1-1/2 cups toasted hazelnuts 1 cup granulated sugar 2 cups
toasted sliced almonds 2 tbsp cornstarch 7 egg whites 1/2 tsp cream
of tartar 8 oz semisweet chocolate 3 cups whipping cream 1 tbsp
instant coffee granules 1 tbsp granulated sugar whole hazelnuts as
garnish Line 17 x 11 inch rimmed baking sheet with piece of parchment
paper. Draw three 16x3 inch rectangles on paper, and turn paper over.
In food processor, finely grind hazelnuts with 1/3 cups of the sugar.
Transfer to bowl. Set aside 1 cup of the almonds for garnish.  In
food processor, finely grind remaining almonds with 1/3 cup of the
sugar, stir into hazelnuts along with cornstarch. In large bowl, beat
egg whites with cream of tartar until soft peaks form. Gradually beat
in remaining sugar until stiff peaks form. Fold in nut mixture in 3
additions.  Evenly spread over rectangles.  Bake in 275F oven for
1-1/2 hours or until golden.  Let cool on rack.  Meringue can be
wrapped loosely in waxed paper and stored in cool, dry place for up
to 2 days. Meanwhile, coarsely chop 6 oz of the chocolate.  Place in
heat proof bowl. IN suacepan, bring 1/2 cup of the whipping cream to
a boil and pour over chocolate, stirring until melted.  Refrigerate
ganaches for about 30 minutes or until spreadable.  Meanwhile,
coarsely chop remaining chocolate and melt.  Let cool.  Whip 2 cups
of the whipping cream and fold in 2 tbsp of it into the cooled
chocolate.  Fold back into whipped cream and set aside.  Stir
together coffee granules, sugar and 1 tbsp of hot water until
dissolved.  let cool slightly.  In seperate bowl, beat remaining
whipped cream with coffee mixture.  Set aside. Gently remove
meringues from parchment paper and trim with sharp knife if necessary
to make uniform sizes.  Place 1 of the meringues on serving platter
and spread with 1/3 of the chilled ganache.  Spread 1/4 inch thick
layer of chocolate whipped cream over ganache.  Spread second
meringue with half of the remaining ganache, place on top of first
meringue. Spread coffee whipped cream over top.  Spread remaining
ganache over third meringue. Place on top of coffee whipped cream.
Spread enough of the remaining chocolate whipped cream to cover sides
and top, leaving ends bare. Pipe remaining chocolate whipped cream
into rosettes on top. Garnish top with whole hazelnuts and sides with
reserved almonds.  Freeze for at least 4 hours or until solid.  Can
be kept frozen for up to 2 days.  Serve frozen.  Makes 10 servings.
Origin: Canadian Living, December 1994. Shared by: Sharon Stevens,
Dec/94.

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   12-02-94

