Title: Mock Snapper Soup
Categories: Soup/stew
Yield: 8 quarts
And all
1 cn 28 oz tomatoes, pureed in
Blender or food processor
2    Sticks margarine
1 c  Flour
1/2 lb Halibut -boneless filet
1/2 lb Crabmeat
2 ts Salt, or to taste
1    Lemon, juice of
1/2 tb Tabasco or to taste
3 tb Worcestershire sauce or
To taste
1/4 ts Ground cloves (optional)
1 c  Dry cocktail sherry
8    Hard boiled eggs, grated
3 lb Beef neck bones
1/4 lb Salt pork
1 c  Chopped celery
1 c  Chopped, but not peeled
Yellow onions
1 c  Chopped carrots
1/2    Chicken (3 1/2 lb size)
In one piece
1 tb Whole basil leaves
1 ts Whole marjoram leaves
1 tb Whole thyme leaves
3    Whole bay leaves
20    Whole peppercorns
1 ts Cayenne pepper
1 bn Whole parsley leaves
6    Cloves garlic, chopped, peel
Place the beef neck bones in a roasting pan and roast, uncovered. for
45 minutes at 400 degrees or until lightly browned.

Dice the salt pork and pan fry in a large frying pan.  When the fat
has been rendered, add the celery, onions and carrots.  Saute until
tender.

Place the roasted bones and the sauteed vegetables in a large kettle
and cover with water. (This should take about 6 quarts)  Bring to a
simmer and add the half chicken, and the next six seasonings, throw
the parsley in, the garlic and the tomatoes.  Cook at a good simmer
for one half hour. Remove the chicken to cool, and allow the stock to
continue to cook. Debone the chicken and save the meat, covered.
Return the bones and skin to the pot.  Continue cooking the stock and
bones for a total of two hours from start to finish.  Remove the beef
bones from the pot and allow them to cool.

In the meantime, prepare the roux.   Melt two sticks of margarine in a
frying pan and add the flour.  Stir over medium heat until the roux
is the color of peanut butter.  Set aside.

Remove the meat from the beef bones and chop into very small dice.
Discard the bones.

Strain the stock and discard all solids.  To remove fat from the top
of soup stock, use a plastic tube.  Plastic tubing about 1/3 inch in
diameter can be purchased at hardware stores.  Strain the stock and
then remove the stock from beneath the fat by siphoning with the
plastic tube. Tip the kettle holding the stock so that you can always
keep the siphoning tube beneath the level of fat.

Return the stock to the kettle and add the chopped beef.  Thicken the
soup with the roux, stirring the whole time that the hot roux is
added. Add the halibut and simmer for 10 minutes.  Remove the fish
and "flake" or tear into strings.  Return the fish to the pot, along
with the crab and precooked chicken.  Add salt to taste, along with
the lemon juice, Tabasco, Worchestershire and optional cloves.

Keep the pot at a very low simmer as you add the dry sherry and the
grated eggs.

Serve very hot with toast squares on the side.

Cooks in American

== Courtesy of Dale & Gail Shipp, Columbia Md. ==
Submitted By GAIL SHIPP   On   10-25-94

