Title: Moroccan Puree of Fava Beans (Byesar)
Categories: Dip, Moroccan, Spread, Vegetable
Yield: 1 batch
;A little water
Salt; to taste
1/4 ts Za'atar or thyme or
Marjoram or oregano
1/2 lb Dried fava beans
3    Garlic cloves; peeled
1 ts Cumin seeds
Best quality olive oil
The night before, soak fava beans in 3 to 4 times their volume of cold
water.  Discard any favas that float.

The following day, drain, skin and cover with fresh water.  Cook
gently, with the garlic and cumin seeds, until the beans are tender
(about 2 hours, depending upon the age and quality of the beans).
Drain.

Puree the beans in a food mill or an electric blender.  Stir in enough
olive oil, and a little water, to give the puree a soupy consistency.
Sprinkle with salt to taste and beat well.  Heat just before serving
with a little more olive oil and a sprinkling of crushed za'atar.

Serve with Arab bread and a bowl of "mixed spices" (ground cumin,
cayenne and salt).

Yield: 4 to 6 servings.

Wolfert writes:  "Byesar is the North African cousin of the famous
Middle Eastern hummous made of chick-peas.  It is a dish for the
lovers of olive oil, a soupy mixture best eaten with Arab bread.
First you sprinkle some mixed spices on your bread, then dip it into
the byesar and scoop the puree into your mouth.  The dish is so
popular among Berbers that Madame Guinaudeau, in her book on Fez
cooking, was able to record the following conversation:

"A gentleman from Fez to a Berber mountaineer: 'What would you do if
you were the sultan?'

"The mountaineer's reply: 'I would eat byesar every day.'"

"In Tangier byesar is made with split green peas and scallions, and
in some parts of the country it is cooked with cabbage and flavored
with paprika, cumin, garlic, and salt.

"The best byesar is laced with olive oil made from green, unripe
olives."

From "Couscous and Other Good Food from Morocco" by Paula Wolfert. New
York: Harper & Row, Publishers, 1987.  ISBN 0-06-091396-7.  Pp. 92-93.
Posted by Cathy Harned.
Submitted By CATHY HARNED   On   10-17-94

