Title: New Traditions Gumbo
Categories: Vegetarian, Vegetable, Soup/stew, Cajun/creol
Yield: 6 servings
1 ea Bunch shallots; or green
-onions, minced
1 ea Green bell pepper; or red
-minced
2 c  Water
1 ea Vegetable bouillon cube
2 c  White wine; or 4T lemon
-juice plus water to
-equal 2c
1/2 c  Chopped fresh parsley;
-flat leaf
1 ds Hot pepper sauce
1 ts Salt
1/4 ts Pepper; freshly ground
Gumbo file; optional
Cooking sherry; optional
1 1/2 c  Prepared Cajun seafood
-seasoning, or Louisiana
-crab boil
8 oz Firm tofu; cut into bite
-sized chunks
1 c  Dry textured vegetable
-protein
1/2 ts Curry powder
1/2 ts Poultry seasoning; or a
-generous pinch each of sage
-rosemary and thyme
1 c  Water; boiling
1/4 c  Peanut oil; or canola
-or safflower
1/4 c  Whole wheat flour
1/4 c  Water
1 lg Onion; diced
Prepare seafood seasoning or crab boil according to package
directions. Measure out 1 1/2c and pour over tofu.  Allow to marinate
for 1 hour.

Mix tvp with curry powder and poultry seasoning.  Add boiling water.
Fluff with fork until all water is absorbed.  Set aside.

Make a roux by heating oil on a large saucepan until gently warmed and
adding flour a little at a time, stirring, until all flour is coated.
Continue until all flour is used.  Keep stirring a few minutes until
mixture is thick, uniform and a rich coppery brown.

Add up to 1/4c water to roux; whisk until blended.  Add onion,
shallots or green onions, and bell pepper.  Saute stirring
constantly, until onions are translucent.

Slowly add 2c water, stirring until blended, and bring sauce to a
boil. Dissolve bouillon cube in mixture.  Add wine or lemon water
mixture and return to a boil.  Add parsley, hot pepper sauce, salt
and pepper. Cover and simmer on low for 45 mins.

Drain marinade from tofu and reserve for another use.  Add tofu and
prepared tvp mixture to sauce.  Simmer for about 35 more mins.  Serve
with rice and pass the file and sherry so each person can season the
dish as desired.
Per serving:  289 cals, 14g prot 12g fat, 17g carb, 0g chol, 409mg
sod, 3g fiber

Recipe by Dez Crawford From the Best of Vegetarian Times recipe cards
Posted by Lisa Greenwood
Submitted By LISA GREENWOOD   On   12-17-94

