Title: New York Cheescake
Categories: Dessert, Cheese/eggs, Cake/cookie
Yield: 12 servings
1 tb Grated orange rind
1 1/2 ts Grated lemon rind
1 ts Vanilla
5    Eggs
2    Egg yolks
1/4 c  Whipping cream
1 c  Sour cream
Cherry glaze (recipe follows
Or 19 oz. can cherry pie
Filling
1 c  All-purpose flour
1/4 c  Sugar
1 ts Grated lemon rind
2    Egg yolks
1/4 c  Butter
1 tb Milk
1/2 ts Vanilla
5    8 oz. pk.soft cream cheese
1 3/4 c  Sugar
3 tb Flour
Heat oven to 400 F.  Remove bottom from a 9 " spring-form pan and
grease it. Combine 1 c. flour, 1/4 c. sugar and 1 ts. lemon rind in
small bowl. Make a well in the centre of these ingredients and drop
in 2 egg yolks, butter, milk and 1/2 ts. vanilla.  Mix, first with a
fork, then with fingers, until mixture can be gathered into a ball.
Divide dough into 4 equal parts. Wrap 3 parts of the dough in
transparent wrap and set aside. Shape remaining 1/4 of dough into a
flatted round and put it in the middle of the bottom of the
spring-form pan.  Roll the dough evenly to cover the bottom of the
pan (if it is a little eneven around the edges, just press it into
place with fingers).  Bake this bottom crust 10 minutes or until
golden. Cool. Grease sides of spring-form pan lightly. Slip bottom of
pan with cooled crust on it into place. Roll each of the remaining
quarters of the dough into a strip about 10 inches long and 3 inches
wide (or just as wide as the pan is deep).  Use these strips to line
the sides of the pan, working with the pan on its side. (Don't worry
if the strips tear a little, just press them together again with the
fingers.) Chill while preparing filling. Turn oven temperature up to
500 F. Put cheese, 1 3/4 c. sugar, 3 tb. flour, orange rind, lemon
rind and vanilla in large mixer bowl. Beat until smooth.  Add 5 eggs
and 2 egg yolks, one at a time, beating well after each addition.
Stir in whipping cream (not whipped). Add sour cream. Pour into
pastry-lined pan (directions are right - bottom crust is baked and
side crust is not) Bake 10 minutes at 500. Reduce oven temperature to
200 F. and continue baking until filling is set, about 1 hour and 15
minutes. Set on cake rack to cool. Spread with Cherry Glaze or canned
cherry pie filling. Release and lift off sides of pan and slip the
cheesecake (still on the bottom of the pan) onto serving plate.  Cut
in wedges to serve (12 to 16 servings. Note: Cheesecake will keep
several days in the refrigerator. CHERRY GLAZE: 14 oz can red pitted
cherries, 1/3 c. sugar, 2 tb. cornstarch, 1/4 ts. grated lemon rind.
Drain cherries well and measure out 3/4 c. of the juice.  Combine
sugar and cornstarch in small saucepan.  Stir in the 3/4 c. cherry
juice. Set over high heat and bring to a boil, stirring constantly.
Turn heat to low and continue cooking and stirring 1 minute.  Remove
from heat, stir in cherries and lemon rind and cool.  Spread on top
of cheesecake as directed. Submitted By FLORENCE THOMPSON   On
12-11-94

