Title: Parmesan-Style Eggplant
Categories: Vegetable, Cheese/eggs, Side dish
Yield: 1 servings
2 ea Cloves garlic, minced
2 oz To 4oz soft Goat's milk
-cheese (optional)
3 md Zucchini
1 t  Dried oregano
2 c  Tomato sauce
Bread crumbs (optional)
1 lb Eggplant (1 med)
1 T  Olive oil
2 c  Cooked pinto beans or
-chickpeas
1 c  Sliced or diced onions
1 T  Olive oil
1/2 lb Mushrooms, sliced
(Peel and) Slice the eggplant lengthwise into 1/2" (1/4") slabs.
Brush both sides of all pieces with olive oil.  Arrange (in 9x13"
pan) on a cookie sheet. Bake at 400F for 15 min.  Set aside. Place
pinto beans or chick-peas (I used the chick peas, next time I'd mash
all of them as the whole pea texture was not exactly what I had in
mind) into a bowl or dish. Mash about half of them with a fork. Set
aside. In a large frying pan, saute the onions in 1T oil until soft.
Add the mushrooms (I used a 4 1/2oz can, drained) and garlic.  Cook
until the liquid that the mushrooms have released has evaporated.
Set aside. Crumble the cheese, set aside. (I used shredded mild
cheddar and shredded Mozzarella/Provolone mix - it was what I had in
the fridge.) Slice the zucchini lengthwise into 1/4" slabs. Steam for
7 min, then drain on a cotton towel. (I nuked mine for about 4 min
total) Set aside. To assemble, oil a 9x13" baking dish. Arrange the
eggplant slices in 1 layer in the bottom. Cover with the beans.
Sprinkle beans with half the oregano (another substitution - baby
started crying so since Italian seasoning was the only one close at
hand used that instead of oregano - next time I'll try it with just
oregano as suggested.) Then spread on the mushroom mixture, and top
it with a layer of cheese. Sprinkle cheese with remaining oregano.
Layer on the zucchini, then cover with tomato sauce (here I used Ragu
garden with mushroom) and crumbs. Bake at 350F for 45 min.  Allow to
stand for 10 min before cutting into squares and serving. Note: You
can assemble the casserole and refrigerate until ready to bake. Bake
at 350F for 35 min. If you omit the cheese, serve with a nut or seed
dessert for added protein.

