Title: Pressure Canned Pickerel
Categories: Seafood, Fish, Can/preserv
Yield: 12 pints
25 lb Prepared pickerel
-cleaned and skinned
3/4 c  Pure pickling salt
1 g  Water
Dissolve the pickling salt in water to make a brine.

Clean, skin, and scrub fresh fish.  "Fillet" the fish, don't worry
about the "Y" bones.  (note: Sonny leaves in the backbone and splits)
Cut in jar length pieces and soak in cold brine for 60 min.  Remove
the fish pieces, drain, and pack solidly just to the top of the
jars--not more than 1/16-in. below the sealing rim.

Half-close the filled jars.  (Place the flat lide on the sealing rim
of the jar, and screw the band down, just til the band cannot be
pulled up off the threads)  Exhaust the jars in the pressure canner
at zero pounds. (Follow the directions for your canner re: amount of
water in canner, etc) After 15 minutes, open the canner, then open
one jar and test the center of its contents with pencil thermometer.
(it should read at least 170degF/77degC, if not, give it 5 more
minutes)

When jars are exhausted, lift the canner off heat and finish screwing
the bands firmly tight.  Be sure there is enough very hot water in
the canner for "Pressure-processing."  Return canner to heat, put on
lid, let steam vent in steady flow for 10 minutes, close petcock/vent
and start to time.

Pressure process at 10 pounds for 100 minutes (1 hour and 40 min).
Remove jars; air-cool naturally.

Notes: If "putting up", use only pints.  Sonny usually puts up, but I
often do smaller quantities in quart jars for use within a day or two
and refrigerate them as soon as they cool off.  You can add a hot
brine to the jars before processing, but then I would exhaust in my
enameled canning kettle.  The salt can raise cane with the pressure
canner. I've used this pickerel on sandwiches, like canned tuna, but
my favorite is in fish cakes. Substitute in any cod fish cake recipe.
Or heat up in the microwave, and ladle any sauce over it you
generally use for fish.

This recipe was developed by Francis R. (Sonny) Martin, Sr. and
Charlotte Welch, beginning with the information on canning seafood in
"Putting Food By" (Greene, Hertzberg, Vaughan--4th ed.)
Submitted By CHARLOTTE WELCH   On   11-01-94

