Title: Pumpkin Butter (Hp)
Categories: Can/preserv, Fruit, Holiday
Yield: 7 servings
1 1/2 c  Honey
1 1/2 ts Ground Cinnamon
1/4 ts Ground Allspice
1/2 ts Salt
1 c  Orange Juice
1    5 to 7-lb Pumpkin; raw
- (4 cups cooked down,
- see directions)
Hot Water
3 1/2 c  Sugar
Wash pumpkin.  Cut into several pieces that will fit in a
6-quart pot. Scrape out and discard seeds.
In a 6-quart pot, cover pumpkin pieces with hot water. Bring to a
boil over medium-high heat.  Reduce heat to low. Cover; simmer until
tender, about 20 minutes. Drain, discarding liquid. Use a large spoon
to scrape pulp from peel; discard peel.  Press pulp through a food
mill or puree in a blender or food processor. Measure puree. A dry
pumpkin variety will yield about 5 cups puree.  A more moist pumpkin
will yield 6 to 8 cups puree. Return puree to pot.  Bring to a boil
over medium heat. Stirring frequently, boil until thickened, 10 to 20
minutes. Wash seven 1/2 pint jars in hot soapy water; rinse.  Keep
hot until needed. Prepare lids as manufacturer directs.  When puree
will mound slightly on a spoon, measure again.

USE NO MORE THAN 4 CUPS puree.  Stir in remaining ingredients. Simmer
uncovered until thick enough to spread. Test thickness of pumpkin
butter with plate test, below. Ladle hot pumpkin butter into 1 hot
jar at a time, leaving 1/4-inch headspace.  Wipe rim of jar with a
damp, clean cloth. Attatch lid.  Place in canner. Fill and close
remaining jars. Process in a boiling water bath.

PINTS:  10 Minutes.  Adjust time for altitude. YIELD: Seven 12 Pints.

PLATE TEST:  The plate test is not as reliable for jellies as it is
for jams, preserves, conserves and butters. Chill a small plate in the
refrigerator.
When the jam has thickened slightly, 10 to 15 minutes, remove the
pot from the heat to prevent overcooking. Place a spoonful of the hot
mixture on the chilled plate.  Place in the freezer for 1 minute.
After 1 minute, there should be no watery ring around the mound. Draw
your finger through the mixture.  It should retain its shape and not
flow into the trough.

SOURCE:  "Canning", by Sue and Bill Deeming, c1983, published by HP
Books, ISBN: 0-89586-185-2 From the Recipe Files of: Deidre-Anne
Penrod, FGGT98B on Prodigy, J.PENROD3 on GEnie
Submitted By KAREN MINTZIAS   On   10-20-94

