Title: Quick Tips Jan/feb 95
Categories: Information
Cleaning Cultivated Mushrooms
Yield: 1 info

Mushrooms need to be cleaned, but brushing them leaves dirt behind and
washing them changes the texture. Try this.

Hold the mushroom by the stem and turn it over so you can see the
underside of the cap. Grasp a piece of the fringe around the cap
border; pull this very thin layer up and over the cap. Repeat until
the cap is completely cleaned.

Pressing Crumb Crusts

Here's an easy way to press graham cracker crusts into the bottoms of
pans. For larger crusts, use the bottom of a glass to press the crumb
mixture into the pan. When making miniature tarts and cheese cakes,
use the bottom of a cordial glass or the cork from a cordial bottle.

Making a Foil Cover for Pie Crusts

Lay out a square of foil large enough to cover the pie. Fold the
square in half and then in half again to form a smaller square. Place
the closed corner point in the center of the pie and cut an arc. When
you unfold the foil, you will have cut out a circle from the middle
of the sheet. This open circle exposes the pie while the remaining
ring of foil covers the crust.

Halving Cranberries

Place the cranberries in the gutter of a carving board, then use a
large knife to halve them all at once.

Loading a Pastry Bag

When loading a pastry for piping, simply roll the top of the bag down
about 2 inches, then use an ice cream scoop for easy loading with no
mess.

Separating and Peeling Large Amounts of Garlic
:

1. Press down on the garlic head with the heel of your hand to loosen
the cloves.

2. Remove as much of the papery skin from the outside of the head as
possible.

3. Place the head of garlic in a very lightly oiled mixing bowl of an
electric mixer and fit the mixer with a paddle attachment.

4. Mix until the cloves are separated and the peels are removed.

Juicing a Pomegranate

1. Place the pomegranate on the counter and roll the fruit back and
forth to burst the pockets of juice beneath the thick skin. Be
careful not to break the skin as you roll it.

2. With a small, sharp knife, cut round the stem of the fruit.

3. Remove the stem section.

4. Carefully turn the fruit upside down into a glass, and squeeze the
pomegranate until all the juice is expelled.

Weighting Food Evenly

When weighing salted eggplant or cucumber to extract the liquid, it is
difficult to apply weigh evenly across the surface of the food. Try
this. Place the vegetable in a colander. Fill a gallon-size plastic
bag one half to two thirds full of water. Twist-tie the bag closed
and use it as a weight.

Cutting Butter into Flour

When you don't want to use the food processor to cut in butter, try
this. Using the large holes of your grater, grate frozen butter into
the bowl containing the flour and other dry ingredients, then finish
cutting in the butter with forks or a pastry cutter.

Cook's Illustrated January/February 1995
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   12-21-94

