Title: Satay with Peanut Sauce
Categories: Thai, Beef, Chicken, Pork, Stir fry
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM--------------------------MARINADE-------------------------------
Crushed dried red chili
-peppers
1 lb Beef, pork or chicken, very
-thinly sliced, cut into
-strips
1/2 ea Inch wide, 2 inches long
1 T  Light brown sugar
1 T  Curry powder
2 T  Crunchy peanut butter
1/2 c  Soy sauce
1/2 c  Fresh lime juice
2 ea Garlic cloves, minced or
-pressed
MMMMM------------------------PEANUT SAUCE-----------------------------
-pressed
Ground cayenne pepper
1/4 c  Homemade chicken stock
1/4 c  Heavy cream
g  Lime zest for garnish
Fresh cilantro (coriander)
-springs for garnish
2/3 c  Crunchy peanut butter
1 1/2 c  Unsweetened coconut milk
1/4 c  Fresh lemon juice
2 T  Soy sauce
2 T  Brown sugar or molasses
1 t  Grated fresh ginger root
4 ea Garlic cloves, minced or
MARINADE:  Combine brown sugar, curry powder, peanut butter, soy
sauce, lime juice, garlic and crushed chiles to taste in a shallow
dish. Thread the meat pieces on water soaked bamboo skewers, weaving
skewers in and out of meat lengthwise to create a serpentine design.
Place the skewers in the soy sauce mixture.  Marinate at room
temperature for at least 2 hours or in the refrigerator for as long
as overnight for a more intense flavor. PEANUT SAUCE:  Combine peanut
butter, coconut milk, lemon juice, soy sauce, brown sugar, ginger,
garlic and cayenne pepper to taste in a sauce pan over moderate heat
and cook, stirring constantly, until the sauce is as thick as heavy
cream, about 15 minutes.  Transfer to a food processor or blender and
puree briefly.  Add chicken stock and cream; blend until smooth.
Reserve. (This mixture may be made several hours ahead and
refrigerated. Return to room temperature before serving.) Prepare a
moderate charcoal fire in an open grill or preheat the broiler. Cook
the skewered meat, turning several times and basting with the
marinade, over medium-hot coals (or under a broiler) until crispy on
the outside but still moist inside, about 6 to 8 minutes.  Sprinkle
with lime zest and garnish with cilantro leaves. Serve with the
peanut sauce for dipping. Makes about 18 skewers; allow 2 per serving
as an appetizer, 4 or more as a main coarse. For a main dish, serve
with steamed rice, salad and grilled or steamed asparagus or other
vegetable. Posted by Stephen Ceideburg; October 22 1992.

Submitted By PAT STOCKETT   On   10-18-94

