Title: Seitan Wellington (Vegan)
Categories: Vegetarian, Holiday
Yield: 1 servings
No Ingredients Found
"We made this for Thanksgiving, inspired by the menu for Thanksgiving
Dinner at Millenium Restaurant in San Francisco.  They had Seitan
Wellington as an entree.  This recipe is our effort, and probably
bears little resemblance to the dish served at that wonderful place.
But this experiment produced a delicious meal:" 1 ea seitan log (see
note 1) 1 sm onion, chopped 3 ea cloves garlic, chopped 5-6 ea
shitake mushrooms 1 lb domestic mushrooms 12 ea sheets filo dough 1
tb cornstarch 1 qt stock, reduced to 2 cups SEITAN WELLINGTON
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Finely chop about half the domestic mushrooms and saute with the
onion and garlic, until the duxelles have given up most of their
moisture and are dry. Spread 6 sheets of filo in a baking dish,
spraying each sheet lightly with lechitin (or brushing with butter or
margarine if you prefer). Spread half the duxelles in the center of
the last sheet, then position the seitan log on top. Spread the rest
of the duxelles on top of the log, then fold filo sheets around the
log.  Cover with the remaining filo sheets, repeating the lechtin on
each sheet.  Fold the filo around the seitan to make a neat package.
Bake at 350 degrees until the filo is browned, about 45 minutes.
(You can brush the dough with a beaten egg, if you use eggs.)
Coarsely chop the shitakes and the remaining domestic mushrooms. Heat
in the reduced stock (we used the broth in which the seitan cooked),
and add cornstarch just before serving. TO SERVE: Slice the
wellington, and put over mushroom sauce in the plate. NOTE: For the
seitan, we used the Arrowhead Mills 'Instant Seitan,' forming the
entire box into a single log, which was simmered for four hours in a
broth which combined tamari, water, kombu, and a half-cup of veggie
soup mix++a dried combination of carrots, potatoes, and other things.
Even the carnivore boyfriend from hell of our daughter, who normally
acts as if our food was not only nasty but a leftist liberal plot
aimed at reducing all real American gun totting men to powerless
wimps, asked for a second serving. (He wasn't quite sure what to make
of the squash soup, however, or the mashed Peruvian potatoes.) From:
Alan and Ann Woods

Submitted By SAM LEFKOWITZ   On   11-30-94

