Title: Shrimp Rolls 690
Categories: Appetizer
Yield: 4 servings
2    Cabbage leaves, cut into
Fine strips
12    Mint leaves,
Cut into fine strips
1 T  Low-salt soy sauce
4 T  Fresh lime juice
3 T  Extra light olive oil with
A dash of sesame oil
1/4 t  Sesame oil
1 T  Fresh cilantro
1 sm Red bell pepper, halved
Lengthwise, cored and seeded
1    Jalepeno pepper, halved
Lengthwise, cored and seeded
8 oz Fish stock
1 t  Freshly grated ginger root
2 T  4 inch lemon grass strands
1 c  Cooked small shrimp meat,
Coarsely chopped
1/2 t  Chili powder
1/3 c  Strained yogurt
Salt and fresh ground pepper
4    (8 to 9 inch) dried rice
Papers
1 t  Turmeric
1 c  Water
1 sm Cucumber, peeled, seeded
And cut into matchsticks
ß Mix the shrimp with the strained yogurt and the chili powder and
season to taste with the salt and pepper.

ß Preheat the broiler.  Lay the peppers, skin side up, on a flat
broiling pan, and place the pan 3 to 4 inches below the heat source.
Broil until the skins are charred and black.  Slip them directly into
a heavy-weight plastic storage bag and let them cool.  Rub off the
charred skins and cut into fine dice.

ß In a small saucepan, bring the fish stock, grated ginger and lemon
grass to a boil and reduce by half.  Strain the stock into a
measuring cup. Whisk in 3 tablespoons of the lime juice, the soy
sauce and oils.

ß In a bowl, combine the warm water and the remaining lime juice.  If
you prefer a colorful set of rice papers, add turmeric to the bowl of
warm water! Submerge the rice papers one at a time, until they start
to soften - about 15 seconds.   Remove to a damp napkin and cover
with aonther damp napkin. Repeat until all the pepers are done.  Keep
them covered until ready to use - they dry out rapidly!

ß Fill each paper with shrimp mixture, cucumber, cabbage and mint.
Roll up loosely and place on individual plates.

ß Just before serving, stir the roasted peppers and cilantro into the
sauce.

ß Pour a spoonful of sauce over each roll and serve

From: GRAHAM KERR'S SMART COOKING, DOUBLEDAY 1991, page 14-15
Submitted By BRENT WILLIAMS   On   11-07-94

