Title: Stir-Fried Rice Noodles (Pad Thai) - Martha Stewart Livin
Categories: Stir fry, Side dish, Thai, Rice
Yield: 4 servings
2 t  Salt, or to taste
1/4 lb String beans, trimmed and
-thinly sliced lengthwise
1/4 lb Sugar-snap peas, cut in half
12 md Shrimp (about 1/2 lb),
-peeled and deveined
1 c  Bean sprouts
3    Scallions (green parts
-only), very thinly sliced
-on the diagonal
1 T  Roasted peanuts, coarsely
-chopped, for garnish
1    Lime, quartered lengthwise,
-for garnish
Coriander sprigs, for
-garnish
1/2 lb Dried flat rice noodles,
-1/8 inch thick (sen lek)
1/4 c  Light-brown sugar
3 T  White vinegar
3 T  Fish sauce (nampla)
1 T  Tamarind paste mixed
-with 1 T water, or 2 T
-molasses
1/4 t  Coarsely ground dried red
-chiles, or to taste
1 T  Dried shrimp, minced
2 T  Canola or other vegetable
-oil
2    Shallots, minced
2 lg Cloves garlic, peeled and
-minced
1. Soak noodles in warm water for 20 minutes, or until softened; drain
well. Meanwhile, combine 1/4 C water, sugar, vinegar, fish sauce,
tamarind mixture, and dried chiles in a small saucepan. Simmer,
stirring, for 5 minutes. Remove from heat, add dried shrimp, and set
aside.

2. Heat oil in a large nonstick skillet or wok over medium heat. Add
shallots and garlic and stir-fry for 2 minutes. Stir in sugar mixture
and reduce heat to lowest possible setting. Bring a medium saucepan
of water to a boil. Salt water, add string beans, and cook for 1 1/2
minutes. Add sugar-snap peas and continue cooking for 30 seconds.
Drain and set aside.

3. In another large nonstick skillet, cook shrimp over mediuzn-high
heat, 3 minutes per side. Meanwhile, add noodles, a quarter of the
bean sprouts, and half the scallions to the shallot mixture. Raise
heat to high and boil, stirring, for 2 minutes. Add shrimp, string
beans, and sugar-snap peas, and stir for 1 minute more. Turn out
noodles onto a platter, sprinkle with peanuts and remaining
scallions, and arrange lime quarters, coriander sprigs, and remaining
bean sprouts beside them.

Martha Stewart Living/Sept./94 Put together by Di Pahl & <gg>
Submitted By MICHAEL ORCHEKOWSKI   On   11-07-94

