Title: Stuffed Calamari in "Gravy"
Categories: Seafood, Cheese/eggs, Main dish, Italian
Yield: 6 servings
1 c  Parsley; fresh, chopped
1/3 c  3 cheese mixture ( see below
- for instructions )
2 c  Bread crumbs; fresh
2    Eggs; beaten
2 lb To 3 lbs. small squid bodies
- cleaned, see below for
- instructions
1/2 c  Olive oil
2    Onions; finely chopped
8 cl Garlic; chopped
1 tb Oregano; fresh, chopped
1 tb Basil; fresh, chopped
1 tb Marjoram; fresh, chopped
1 cn Tomato sauce; 28 oz.
1 cn Tomato paste; 6 oz.
1. Heat half the olive oil in a heavy pot, and cook onions and 6
cloves garlic over medium heat until soft. Add oregano, basil,
marjoram, salt and pepper to taste. Cook for 5 minutes. Add tomato
sauce, tomato paste and 2 cups water. Simmer for at least 30 minutes,
adding half the parsley when the sauce is cooked. (Pistola simmers
the sauce for as long as 4 hours. If you have the time, by all means
do so, adding a bit more water if the sauce thickens too much).

2. Combine bread crumbs, 3-cheese mixture, remaining garlic, 1/3 cup
parsley, eggs, and salt and pepper to taste. Stuff squid with
bread-crumb mixture, then secure tops with toothpicks.

3. Heat remaining olive oil in a large skillet and saute squid in
small batches until browned on all sides, about 2-4 minutes. Drain on
paper towels.

4. When all squid is cooked, add to tomato sauce and cook for 15
minutes longer. Garnish with remaining parsley.

THREE-CHEESE MIXTURE: 1/3 cup parmesan cheese, 1/3 cup romano cheese,
1/3 cup dry Monterey jack. To make 1 cup, grate the cheeses by hand
or in a food processor. Mix them well and store in a covered
container. Use as you would grated parmesan.

CLEANING CALIMARI: Cut off tentacles just above the eyes. Squeeze the
cut end of tentacles to remove and discard beak. Set tentacles aside.
Using the flat side of a chef's knife, scrape along the body from the
tail to the opening. Push out entrails, being careful not to break
the flesh. The skin is edible; no need to remove it. Reach into the
body, remove transparent quill, and discard. Prepare squid according
to your recipe.

Source: Sept/Oct 94 Saveur Magazine - by Rose Pistola - North Beach
Ca. Shared by: David Knight
Submitted By DAVID KNIGHT   On   10-24-94

