Title: Stuffed Roast Goose - Country Living
Categories: Holiday, Main dish, Poultry
Yield: 10 servings
3/4 c  Water
1 lg Egg
1    14 to 14 1/2-lb fresh or
-thawed frozen goose
1 lg Carrot, chopped
2    Bay leaves
1/4 c  Unsifted all-purpose flour
Kale leaves (opt.)
Sugar-coated lady apples and
-champagne grapes (opt.)
1/2 c  (1 stick) butter or
-margarine
1 lg Onion, chopped
3    Stalks celery, sliced
8 c  Day-old firm white bread
-cubes
4 c  Day-old firm whole-wheat
-bread cubes
2 t  Dried thyme leaves
1 t  Salt
1/2 t  Ground black pepper
1. In 8-quart saucepot, melt butter over medium heat. Reserve 1/4 C
onion and add remaining onion to butter; saute 5 minutes. Add celery
and cook until tender-crisp. Stir in bread cubes, thyme, 1/2 t salt,
and 1/4 t pepper until lightly mixed and remove from heat. In cup,
combine water and egg; stir egg mixture into bread mixture. Set bread
mixture, or stuffing, aside.

2. Heat oven to 400'F. Remove neck and giblets from goose. Remove
excess fat from neck and body cavities. (Goose fat will be welcomed
by wild birds or may be rendered and used in cooking.) Rinse goose,
neck, and giblets and drain well. Fill neck cavity with some
stuffing. Fasten neck skin to back with a small metal skewer. Spoon
remaining stuffing into body cavity and tie legs together.

3. Place goose, breast side up, on wire rack in shallow roasting pan.
With tines of fork, pierce skin of goose well. Insert meat
thermometer into inside thigh muscle, being careful not to touch the
bone,

4. Roast goose, uncovered, 1 hour. Meanwhile, in 2-quart saucepan,
cook neck and giblets over medium heat until well browned, stirring
occasionally. (If desired, exclude the liver, wrap and freeze for
another use.) Stir reserved onion, the carrot, and bay leaves into
giblets; add enough water to cover. Heat to boiling over high heat.
Reduce heat to low, cover, and simmer 1 hour.

5. Reduce oven temperature to 325F and continue roasting goose 2 1/2
to 3 hours longer or until thermometer registers 185'F. During
roasting, spoon off accumulated fat at 30-minute intervals. Transfer
goose to large platter; let stand 15 minutes before carving.

6. Meanwhile, to prepare gravy, skim off all but about 3 T fat from
the goose drippings in the roasting pan. Strain the liquid from
cooking neck, giblets, and vegetables through a large sieve into a
large measuring cup or bowl. Discard the particles. Measure 3 C
liquid and set aside. If not enough, add water or chicken broth.

7. Into the roasting pan with the reserved fat, stir flour until well
mixed. Gradually stir in reserved 3 C liquid and cook over medium-low
heat until thickened and bubbly. Stir in remaining 1/2 t salt and 1/4
t pepper. Pour gravy into a small pitcher.

8. Remove skewer and untie the goose legs. Garnish platter with kale,
apples, and grapes, if desired. Carve the goose and serve with
stuffing and gravy.

Country Living/December/92 Scanned & fixed by Di Pahl & <gg>
Submitted By MICHAEL ORCHEKOWSKI   On   11-21-94

