Title: Sylvia's Really Moist Stuffing
Categories: Bread, Holiday, Poultry, Stuffing
Yield: 48 servings
MMMMM-----------------C) 1993 BY SYLVIA STEIGER----------------------
1    Turkey
1/4 c  Bacon drippings
1    Onions; chopped
1 c  Butter
5 oz Seeds, sunflower
4 c  Water
2    Bay leaves
16 c  Bread cubes
1 c  Oats
2 ts Powder, chili
2 ts Oregano leaves
2 ts Basil leaves
2 ts Thyme leaves
1 ts Parsley
1/2 ts Sage, rubbed
Use both flavored and plain breads in the stuffing.

Mix bread, oats, and seasonings in large bowl.  Remove neck and
giblets from turkey; set aside.

Melt bacon grease in skillet.  Cook onion until tender, then WITHOUT
DRAINING melt butter (NOT margarine!) in onions and add to dry
ingredients. Mix very well.  Stir in crumbled cornbread and sunflower
seeds, and stuff turkey.  Bake breast side down until done.

Boil neck and giblets in water with seasonings until done (about 20
minutes).  Discard neck and giblets.  Add strained broth to leftover
uncooked stuffing.

When turkey is done, remove it from roasting pan and add ALL
drippings to uncooked stuffing.  Uncooked stuffing will be EXTREMELY
wet. Preheat oven to 325, spray casserole with Pam, fill with
stuffing, and bake covered for 30 minutes.

No-turkey method: save drippings and giblets from several chickens.
Use drippings in lieu of turkey drippings, and cook chicken giblets
and necks in lieu of turkey giblets.  I also saved the carcass of a
smoked turkey that I didn't bake, boiled the heck out of it, and
filtered the broth to use as drippings.  (The dogs LOVED the meat,
fat, and skin that had been left on it!)

Sylvia's additional notes: this is a guide more than a true recipe.
I vary seasonings, amounts, everything.  Throw in anything you like:
mushrooms, garlic, celery (yuck), fruit, ANYTHING.  I originally used
some cornbread because I had it in the freezer (which I have NO idea
why I made!) and have been omitting it since I ran out.  This last
batch, I used toasted pine nuts instead of sunflower seeds.  This
also works very well if you want to mix up a huge batch and freeze it
in baggies or foil pans for later baking.

Recipe and MM by Sylvia Steiger, GEnie THE.STEIGERS, CI$ 71511,2253,
Internet sylvia.steiger@lunatic.com, moderator of GT Cookbook and
PlanoNet Lowfat & Luscious echoes
Submitted By SYLVIA STEIGER   On   10-24-94

