Title: Toltott Kaposzta (Hungarian Stuffed Cabbage)
Categories: Pork, Main dish, European, Vegetable
Yield: 6 servings
A dash of sesame oil
3 T  Low-salt tomato paste
1 T  + 2 t paprika
1/2 t  Caraway seeds
1/8 t  Fresh ground salt
1/4 t  Fresh ground black pepper
1/4 c  Strained yogurt
1 T  Fresh chopped parsley
2 T  Cornstarch mixed with
2 T  Water
12 oz Pork loin, cut into 2 inch
Cubes
1 c  Chopped onion
2    Garlic cloves, chopped
8 oz Mushrooms, coarsley chopped
1 c  Chicken stock
1/4 c  Bulgur wheat
1 md Cabbage head, trimmed with
Dammaged leaves removed
1 T  Extra light olive oil with
FIRST PREPARE

Mince the pork, onion, garlic and mushrooms in a meat grinder.

Bring the chicken stock to a boil, add the bulgur wheat and simmer 5
minutes.  Remove from heat and set aside for later use in the sauce.

In a large saucepan, cover the whole cabbage with water, bring to a
boil and cook for 30 minutes.  Remove the cabbage from the pan and
cool quickly with cold water.  Drain.

NOW COOK

Heat the olive oil in a medium-sized wok or large frypan and add the
ground pork mixture.  When there is no pink left in the pork meat,
add the tomato paste. Sprinkle in 1 T of the paprika and caraway
seeds. Remove from the heat, stir in the cooked bulgur and set aside.

Place the cabbage core-side down on a board.  Peel back the leaves
without pulling them off at the core.  Pull back as many cooked
leaves as possible leaving a roudn inner head about 4 inches in
diameter. hollow out the top of this inner head.  Fill the hollow
with a third of the pork filling or until packed solid.  Set the
leftover pork filling aside. Carefully re-fold the cabbage leaves
into their original order and position. Wrap securely in muslin or
cheesecloth.

Place some marbles in the bottom of a Dutch oven or large covered
casserole.  Put a steamer insert on top of the marbles.  Add water to
just above the base of the steamer.  Place the wrapped cabbage on the
steamer and cover.  Cook on high heat for 30 miunutes.  If you hear
marbles clanking against the Dutch oven.  you know it's time to add
more water!

While the cabbage cooks, put the pork filling back on low heat, cover
and simmer.  Add additional stock if needed to keep it from sticking.

When the cabbage is done, lift it out of the pan with a couple of
wooden spoons.  Place it in a bowl just large enough to hold it, with
the core facing upwards.  Cut the muslin or cheesecloth away from the
cabbage and fold it over the sides of the bowl.  Cover the bowl with
a plate and holding it firmly, turn it upside down.  Remove the bowl,
strip off the muslin or cheesecloth and you've got a big, steamed
cabbage sitting right-side-up!

Add the strained yogurt, the remaining paprika and parsley to the
filling. Remove from the heat, stir in the cornstarch paste, return
to the heat, brign to a boil and stir until thickened.

To serve: Slice the cabbage in wedges like a cake and serve in a
small pool of sauce.  Granish with parsley.

GRAHAM KERR'S SMART COOKING, Doubleday, page 119
Submitted By BRENT WILLIAMS   On   11-13-94

