Title: Torta De Platano Maduro (Ripe Plantain Cake) (Venezuela)
Categories: So. america, Vegetable, Cake/cookie, Cheese/eggs
Yield: 4 servings
2 cups grated Munster cheese
3 tb Sugar
1 ts Ground cinnamon
3    Egg whites
3    Egg yolks
1 tb Flour; or dried bread crumbs
7 tb Butter
2    Plantains; very ripe, peeled
;cut in half crosswise and
;cut lengthwise into 1/4
;inch slices
2 c  Queso blanco; grated or
In a heavy 8 to 10 inch skillet, melt 3 tablespoons of butter over
moderate heat.  When the foam subsides, drop in the sliced plantains
and cook, turning frequently, until the slices are golden brown or
both sides. Transfer the plantains to a double thickness of paper
towels to drain. In a small bowl, mix the grated cheese, sugar and
cinnamon and set aside.
In a large bowl, beat the egg whites with a whisk or a rotary or
electric beater until they are stiff enough to form unwavering peaks
on the beater. In a separate bowl, beat the egg yolks until they are
thick and lemon colored, then with a spatula fold the whites into the
yolks.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees (F).  Grease the bottom and sides
of a deep 1 quart baking dish or mold, then sprinkle in 1 tablespoon
of flour or bread crumbs, tipping the dish to spread the flour or
crumbs as evenly as possible.  Turn the dish over and rap it sharply
to remove any excess.
Ladle about a quarter of the egg mixture into the dish, and spread
it with the back of a spoon.  Cover with a layer of plantains--using
about one third of the slices.  Sprinkle with 2/3 cup of the cheese
mixture and dot with 1 tablespoon of butter.  Repeat the layers two
more times, ending with the egg mixture.  Dot with the last
tablespoon of butter and place in the middle of the oven.  Bake for
35 minutes. Serve hot directly from the baking dish, or let the cake
cool for 5 minutes or so and unmold it onto a platter in the
following fashion: Run a knife around the edge of the dish and dip
the bottom in hot water for a few seconds. Cover the dish with an
inverted platter and, grasping dish and platter together, turn them
over. Hot or cold, this is a traditional Venezuelan accompaniment to
meat dishes.

84 of 108

Source: Time Life Series: Latin American Cooking

MMed by: earl.cravens@salata.com
Submitted By EARL CRAVENS   On   12-17-94

