Title: Turkey and Mango Curry
Categories: Poultry, Turkey, Curries
Yield: 4 servings
3 tb Oil; vegetable, divided
1 lg Onion; diced
2 cl Garlic; peeled and minced
1 1/2 tb Curry powder
1 c  Mango nectar
1/2 c  Chicken broth
1    Mango; cut in 1/2 inch cubes
1 tb Flour; all purpose
1 ts Salt
1/2 ts Pepper; black
pn Red pepper flakes; optional
1 lb Turkey breast; boneless
- in strips OR cubed chicken
- skinned and boned
MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
Toasted slivered almonds
- see note
Minced parsley
Lime wedges
MMMMM------------------------FOR SERVING-----------------------------
Cooked brown or white rice
The mango nectar called for in this recipe is available with the
refrigerated juices in many supermarkups. Serve this curry with
cooked rice and garnish with chopped parsley, toasted slivered
almonds and lime wedges. If desired offer optional garnishes, such as
toasted flaked coconut, crumbled bacon and sliced green onions.

Place flour, salt, black pepper and dried red pepper flakes (if
using) in a bag. Add turkey strips (or cubed chicken) and shake bag
to coat turkey with flour mixture. Heat 2 tablespoons of the oil in a
Dutch oven or large deep skillet. Add turkey and brown on all sides
on high heat. Add onion, garlic and curry powder, adding additional
oil if necessary to prevent sticking; cook on medium heat, stirring
frequently, until onion is softened and transparent.

Add 1 cup mango nectar and chicken broth; simmer, uncovered, until
turkey is completely cooked and sauce has thickened, about 10
minutes. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Stir in mango cubes.
Serve over cooked rice.

NOTE: To toast almonds, place them in a single layer on a baking
sheet or jelly-roll pan. Bake in a 350 degree oven until lightly
browned. Watch them carefully as they can burn quickly.

IN ADVANCE: Can be prepared 2 days in advance and refrigerated. It
is best to add the fresh mango just before serving. Reheat on low
heat, stirring frequently or microwave on medium power until heated
through, stirring frequently.

Per Serving: None given

Source: Sacramento Bee, 10/12/94 Shared by: David Knight
Submitted By DAVID KNIGHT   On   10-18-94

