Title: White Bean and Black Olive Soup
Categories: Main dish, Soup/stew, Vegetable, Beans
Yield: 6 servings
1 1/2 ts Basil
4 c  ;Water
3 oz Tomato paste
1/4 c  Dry red wine
2 c  Cooked navy beans or
-small white beans
-- (1 cup raw)
1 c  Pitted, sliced imported
-black olives*
3 tb Olive oil
3    Or 4 garlic cloves
1 c  Chopped onion (heaping cup)
1/2 c  Diced celery
1/2 c  Chopped green pepper
1 c  Zucchini chunks or
-finely shredded cabbage
1 1/2 ts Salt; or to taste
Black pepper; to taste
1 ts Oregano
*You can substitute California black olives or green stuffed olives,
but they won't have the flavor of those from the Mediterranean.

Heat olive oil in a Dutch oven or large pot.  Add garlic and onion
and cook over medium heat as you prepare the other vegetables, in
order, adding them to the pot as you do.  Sprinkle with salt and
pepper. Cook the vegetables until soft.

Add remaining ingredients.  If you use canned beans, you'll need 1
pound.

Simmer, covered, for 30 minutes.  To serve as a sauce for linguine,
simmer uncovered until the mixture becomes thick - probably more than
30 minutes.

Yield: 6 servings; more if serving over noodles.  Serve with a green
salad and Italian bread.

Fritschner writes: "Have you ever flipped through the same cookbook
for years when, one day, a recipe jumps off the page at you?

"I recently discovered this recipe in my stained and spattered
15-year-old _Moosewood Cookbook_ by Mollie Katzen.  I began making it
this winter, and we love it.  I double the recipe as a rule and
replace the zucchini with cabbage until zucchini comes in season.

"The soup freezes well and reheats in the microwave for brown-bag
lunches. Sometimes we eat it as soup, but for dinner I make it extra
thick and serve it over linguine."

From Food Editor Sarah Fritschner's 02/24/93 "Super Bowls: Hearty
Soups Provide a Simple Way to Chase Winter's Chill" article in "The
(Louisville, KY) Courier-Journal."  Pg. C6.  Typed for you by Cathy
Harned. Submitted By CATHY HARNED   On   12-01-94

