Title:  CHEDDAR CHEESE BUNS
Categories: Pastry, Breads
Yield: 16 servings
-cheese
(or a combination, or more
-cheddar)
2 tb Minced chives or scallions
2 tb Minced Italian parsley
2 tb Minced basil leaves
1 ts Freshly ground white pepper
1    Egg beaten with 1/2 cup milk
-(for
Egg wash)
1 pk Active dry yeast
1/4 c  Lukewarm water
5 1/2 c  Flour
4 tb Sugar
2 ts Kosher or sea salt
1 1/4 c  Butter, cut into pieces
6    Eggs
CHEESE FILLING:
5    To 6 cloves garlic
2 c  Grated cheddar cheese
1 c  Grated asiago or Jarlsberg
"These buns are a favorite among the staff at the Diner.... They are
great accompaniments for chili and soups; on their own they're like a
cheese sandwich.  As long as the cheddar cheese stands out as the
main flavor, you can use up odd bits of other kinds of cheese for
these buns.  For a different flavor, you can substitute a cup of bleu
cheese for the asiago or Jarlsberg cheese and add a cup of toasted
walnuts to the filling.  It's best to refrigerate the dough overnight
for a slow second rise. These buns should be served warm."

In a medium-sized bowl, sprinkle the yeast over the lukewarm water,
stir, and let sit for 10 minutes to dissolve the yeast.  Place the
flour, sugar, and salt in the bowl of a mixer.  Add the butter, and
with a paddle attachment, combine until the mixture resembles course
cornnmeal.

Beat the eggs in another bowl, then combine them with the yeast.  Add
this liquid mixture to the dry ingredients in the mixer.  Change to a
dough hook and mix thoroughly, stopping occasionally to push the
dough down from the hook. The dough will be very soft.  Mix 3 minutes
on medium-high speed. Shape it into a ball, cover with a damp towel
or plastic wrap, and let the dough rise in a warm place for 3 hours.
Punch the dough down again, and refrigerate overnight to rise again.

To make the cheese filling, put the garlic in a pan with cold water to
cover.  Bring to a rolling boil and drain. Repeat two more times, then
mince the blanched garlic. Mix together with the other filling
ingredients. Reserve.

Transfer the dough to a smooth floured surface and roll it out in a
jelly roll-sized rectangle to a 2/3" thickness. Sprinkle the filling
evenly on top of the dough. Roll up the dough like a jelly roll, and
cut into 16 to 18 slices about 1 1/2" thick. For each bun, pinch the
edges of one cut side together to keep the filling from oozing out,
and place, pinched side down, on a parchment-lined baking sheet.  I
have also baked these in flattened paper muffin cups and in nonstick
baking pans.  Cover loosely with a damp towel or plastic wrap and let
rise in a warm place for about 1 1/2 hours.

Preheat the oven to 375 degrees.  Brush the buns with the egg wash
and bake for 20 minutes, or until golden brown and the cheese begins
to melt.  Slide the buns onto a rack to cool.  They are best served
warm.

Yields:  16 to 18 From: "Fog City Diner Cookbook" Posted by: Debbie
Carlson

