Title: 15 Minute Pasta Sauces and Toppings
Categories: Pasta, Salsa/sauce
Yield: 1 servings
-taste.
Add crushed red peppers to
Fresh Tomato: For an uncooked tomato sauce, toss freshly chopped ripe
tomatoes, shallots and basil with olive oil.  Serve over hot pasta and
season with salt and pepper.

Mussels: For a delicate mussel sauce, saute onion and garlic in olive
oil, then add diced tomatoes. Mix in shelled mussels (fresh or from a
jar) and season with basil, salt and pepper. Spicy

Garlic:  Saute lots of garlic and a couple of whole red hot peppers in
olive oil.  Discard the peppers.  Serve the garlic oil over pasta and
season generously with Parmesan cheese and fresh parsley.

Brie: Combine diced ripe tomatoes, chunks of ripe Brie, fresh basil,
minced garlic and olive oil.  Toss with hot pasta and season with
salt and pepper.

Summer Squash:  Saute garlic with shredded carrots, zucchini and
yellow squash in olive oil.  Toss with pasta, pass the cheese.

Red Clam Sauce: For a quick red clam sauce, heat canned crushed
tomatoes packed in puree and the drained liquid from canned clams
along with minced onions, garlic, parsley, salt and pepper.  Add the
clams just before tossing the sauce with the pasta.

White Clam Sauce: Make a white clam sauce by sauteing minced garlic
in hot olive oil.  Add white wine, the drained liquid from canned
clams, oregano, salt, pepper, and lots of minced parsley. Add the
clams just before tossing the sauce with the pasta.

Spinach Sauce: For a creamy spinach sauce, combine cooked,chopped
frozen spinach with ricotta cheese and Parmesan cheese,thin with milk
and season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Also great made with
broccoli.

Quick Tomato Sauce: Make a quick spaghetti sauce by sauteing onion and
garlic in oil, then adding crushed tomatoes packed in puree. Season
with parsley, oregano, salt, pepper and a pinch of sugar and simmer
while the pasta cooks.

Oriental Chicken: In hot oil, saute cubed chicken with scallions and
sliced mushrooms and green pepper, add cubed water chestnuts and
season with soy sauce and sesame oil.

Anchovy:  Stir anchovies in hot olive oil. Add garlic, oregano and
parsley.

Sausage: Add sliced sausages to a favorite purchased tomato sauce.
Serve over hot linguine.

Smoked salmon: Heat smoked salmon strips in butter, add brandy,then
half and half. Simmer but don't boil. Season with red and black
pepper. Sprinkle with chives.

Shrimp: Saute garlic in olive oil, then add and quickly cook shrimp.
Toss with fusilli and sprinkle with red pepper flakes and parsley.

Hummus: Toss hot pasta with olive oil, prepared hummus
(chickpea/garbanzo dip), minced parsley, lemon juice, salt and pepper.

Ham: Saute diced ham, onions and mushrooms in butter. Add parsley and
blanched peas.  Toss with pasta along with grated cheese.

Gorgonzola/Blue Cheese: Melt butter and add an equal amount of olive
oil and lots of crumbled gorgonzola or blue cheese.  Toss with
fusilli.

SOURCE: Women's Day, Meals in Minutes, August 1990. posted by Linda
Davis

Submitted By PAT STOCKETT   On   04-19-95

