Title: A Better Pot Roast
Categories: Meats, Vegetables, Main dish
Yield: 8 servings
-cut in chunks
3    Garlic clove(s), minced
2    Bay leaves
4 tb Tomato paste
Salt to taste
16 oz Can tomatoes, with juice
1 c  Dry red wine
1    First-cut brisket (5 lb)
-trimmed of all visible fat
Freshly ground black pepper
1/4 c  Corn oil
8    Onion(s), thickly sliced
-separated into rings
6    Carrots, peeled
Note: Make this a day ahead so you can skim off the fat.

Preheat oven to 375F.

Cover both sides of brisket with lots of pepper. Over a medium flame,
heat the oil in a heavy casserole or roasting dish and brown the
brisket on all sides. Take the brisket out of the pan and set aside.

Add the onions to the casserole and cook them over medium-high heat.
As you stir them, scrape up the brown bits from the bottom of the
casserole. cook the onions for about 15 minutes, or until they are
thoroughly browned. Add the carrots, garlic, and bay leaves; stir for
another 1-2 minutes.

Take the casserole off the burner and carefully put the brisket back
into its nest of vegetables. Coat the brisket on both sides with
tomato paste. Sprinkle more pepper, and a little salt, over the
tomato paste. Pour the tomatoes and red wine into the bottom of the
casserole.

Cover the casserole tightly, first with a layer of foil and then with
the lid. Let the pot roast cook on the middle rack of the oven for 3
hours. check the liquid level in the casserole frequently; if it gets
too low, add a little water or beef broth.

When the meat is tender, take it out of the oven. Keep the meat
covered while you cool it to room temperature. Then put it in the
refrigerator overnight.

The next day, spoon off all the solidified fat you can. Discard the
bay leaves. Bring the meat back to room temperature and reheat it
along with its juices and the vegetables  either on top of the stove
or in the oven. When it's hot, slice it on the diagonal and serve
with the pan juices and vegetables spooned over. Add salt at the
table, if needed.

Beat This! by Ann Hodgman ISBN 1-881527-21-2 pg 159-160
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   03-20-95

