Title: A Quiche Formula
Categories: Pie/tart, Information
Yield: 1 servings  From "The Enchanted Broccoli Forest" By Molle Katzen.

After you have prepared the chosen crust for your quiche, there are 3
more steps before you ultimately bake it.  There are: 1) The Cheese,
2) The Filling and 3) The Custard.  By the way, these are all easy.
With your finished crust in front of you, the most difficult part is
behind you.

1)  THE CHEESE This is the first layer, deposited - in either grated
or cubed form - directly upon the crust. There is a reason why the
cheese goes in first: it has a lot of fat in it, and when it melts it
forms a moisture-resistant barrier between the filling and the crust,
thus helping to keep the crust from getting soggy. Recommended types
of cheese: Swiss types (especially gruyere) and medium or sharp
cheddar. Recommended amount: 1/4 to 1/3 lb, depending on a) whether
it is cubed or grated (grated takes up less space), b) how much
filling you're using, c) whether you're using a quiche pan
(straight-sided) or a pie pan.

2) THE FILLING a) Spinach (1/2 lb chopped and steamed) - with sauteed
onions, dry mustard and nutmeg.

b) Mushrooms (1/2 lb sliced) sauteed with scallions, oregano, and
thyme.

c) Chopped, steamed asparagus, with tarragon and dill (8-10 thin
stalks).

d) Chopped, steamed broccoli (1 lg stalk) with lemon juice and garlic.

e) Tomato slices (1-2 med tomatoes) sauteed gently in olive oil and/or
butter, with basil and dill.

f) Snippets of fresh herbs (marjoram, thyme, basil, dill, chives,
parsley . . . ) with sauteed onions and peppers.

g) Marinated artichoke hearts (drained and chopped).

h) Take it from here. . .

3) THE CUSTARD After you apply the filling over the cheese beat
together 3 eggs and 1 c milk (4 eggs and 1 1/2 c milk for a
straight-sided quiche pan). Pour it over the top. (Variations - sour
cream or buttermilk instead of milk.) Dust the top with paprika. Bake
35-40 min at 375F.

:
Recipe By
No ingredients

Date: 03-27-95 (160) Fido:
From: Marjorie Scofield
Recipes

