Title: A Vietnamese Pantry
Categories: Question?
Yield: 1 info  Supermarkets with well-stocked ethnic sections carry most of the
ingredients used in Vietnamese cooking; five-spice powder, turmeric,
fermented black bean and chili sauce, tofu, jasmine rice, rice
sticks, rice flour, unsweetened coconut milk, oyster sauce, Oriental
sesame oil, chayotes, fresh cilantro, and Thai chilies. Asian markets
are the source for the more exotic ingredients; good quality nuoc
mam, fresh lemon grass, tamarind, and packaged fried red onions.

Fresh Lemon Grass:

This member of the grass family has a tender, aromatic bulb that is
used and an indirect flavoring; like a bay leaf, it's simmered to
release its perfume but is not meant to be eaten. Look for stalks
that have full, firm, fragrant bulbs. Trim off the tough green tops
and outer leaves, wrap in plastic, and refrigerate or freeze. To use,
pull away all the outer leaves until youreach the moist tender inner
core, then slice, mince, or shred.

Tamarind:

The long, fat, fuzzy brown pods of the tamarind tree are studded with
large seeds surrounded by an intensely tangy and fruity sticky pulp.
This treasured condiment is widely used in hot and sour fish soups.
Seedless pulp is available in Indian and Middle Eastern markets and
needs to be diluted with water. A ready-to-use version is available
in Asian markets.

Rice Flour:

One of the most important staples of the Vietnamese diet, this highly
digestible flour is made from ground long-grain white rice. It's
available in supermarkets and Asian or Latin markets. Be careful not
to buy sweet rice flour or Japanese rice flour.

Thai (or bird) Chilies:

These fiery, tiny red and green chilies are sold in small plastic
bags in Asian groceries. A little goes a long way, so finely  chop
the chilies, seeds and all, adding as much or as little as your
tolerance allows. As with all hot chilies, careful handling is
imperative. Fresh serrano, cayenne, or jalapeo chilies can be
substituted.

Unsweetened Coconut Milk:

Not to be confused with the sweetened coconut cream used in tropical
drinks, unsweetened coconut milk also comes in a can and has a rich,
genuine coconut essence. When the milk settles in the can, the
thicker, richer cream rises to the surface, so you may have to stir
or shake before measuring it out. Look for Chaokoh or Chef's Choice
brands from Thailand. Pour any leftovers into a glass jar and
refrigerate for up to 1 week.

Food and Wine April 1995
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   04-18-95

