Title: Alo-Balo Polo (Steamed Rice with Sour Cherries and Chicke
Categories: Middle east, Poultry, Rice
Yield: 6 servings
2 c  Rice, iranian; imported or
;other uncooked long, soaked
;and drained
8 tb Butter; melted
1/4 ts Saffron threads; pulverized
;with a mortar and pestle or
;the back of a spoon, and
;dissolved in 1 tablespoon
;warm water
4 c  Cherries, sour; fresh, ripe,
;pitted (about 2 pounds)
6 tb Sugar
1/4 c  Olive oil
2 1/2 lb Chicken
1 ts Salt
1 md Onion; peeled and cut into
;1/8 inch thick slices
1/2 c  Water
Combine the cherries and sugar in a 2 to 3 quart saucepan, and,
stirring gently, bring to a boil over high heat.  Reduce the heat to
low and simmer uncovered for 2 or 3 minutes, or until the cherries
have softened somewhat and given off most of their liquid.  Remove
from the heat.
In a heavy 3 to 4 quart casserole, heat the olive oil over moderate
heat until a light haze forms above it.  Pat the chicken completely
dry with paper towels and sprinkle it inside and out with salt. Brown
the chicken in the hot oil, turning it frequently with a large spoon
or tongs and regulating the heat so that the bird colors quickly and
deeply without burning.
Place the chicken on a plate and add the onion slices to the oil
remaining in the casserole.  Stirring frequently, cook for about 10
minutes, or until the slices are richly browned.  Return the chicken
and all of the juices which have accumulated on the plate to the
casserole, add the « cup of water and bring to a boil over high heat.
Reduce the heat to low, cover tightly and simmer for about 30
minutes, or until the chicken is tender.
Transfer the chicken to a plate, set aside 2 tablespoons of the
cooking liquid and discard the onion slices.  When the bird is cool
enough to handle, cut it into 6 or 8 serving pieces.
Meanwhile, bring 6 cups of water to a boil in a heavy 4 to 5 quart
casserole with a tightly fitting lid.  Pour in the rice in a slow,
thin stream so the water does not stop boiling.  Stir once or twice,
boil briskly for 5 minutes, then drain the rice in a sieve.
Pour the reserved chicken cooking liquid and 4 tablespoons of the
melted butter into the casserole and stir them together.  Add half of
the rice and, with a spatula or spoon, smooth it to the edges of the
casserole. Cook uncovered over moderate heat for 5 minutes, then
remove the casserole from the heat and add the chicken and half of
the reserved cherries. Spread the remaining rice on top and pour in
all the remaining cherries and their cooking liquid.  Cover tightly
and cook over low heat for 15 to 20 minutes, or until the rice is
tender.
To serve, spoon about a cup of the rice into a small bowl, add the
remaining 4 tablespoons of melted butter and the dissolved saffron
and stir until the mixture is bright yellow.  Place a layer of rice
on a heated platter.  Arrange the chicken on top of it, cover the
chicken with the remaining rice and cherry mixture.  Sprinkle the
saffron rice on top. With a metal spatula, lift the rice crust from
the bottom of the casserole and arrange small pieces of it around the
edge of the platter.

92 of 116

Source: Time Life Series: Middle Eastern Cooking  "circa  69"

MMed by: earl.cravens@salata.com
Submitted By EARL CRAVENS   On   03-24-95

