Title: Artichokes
Categories: Information, Question?
Preparing an Artichoke Heart
Yield: 1 info

Cut off the stem at the base of the artichoke. Remove the outer
leaves from the artichoke b y pulling them down so that they snap off.

On a work surface, using a large sharp knife, cut the artichoke
crosswise to remove the remaining leaves, leaving about a 1 inch base.

Using a small paring knife, trim the green leaf stubs from the bottom
of the heart. Then trim the dark green leaf stubs from the top.

Using a melon baller or teaspoon, remove the hairy choke from the
artichoke bottom. Immediately transfer to a bowl of acidulated water.

Facts on Artichokes

~ How They Grow: There are three sizes of globe artichokes, all of
which grow on the same stalk. The largest ones weigh about 10 ounces,
ripen at the top of the plant, and are the first to be harvested.
They are frequently stuffed or served with dipping sauces. Medium
artichokes, about 7 ounces. tend to be ready a week after the large
ones and are good for sauts; they often have pointy leaves. Baby
artichokes grow where the leaf meets the stalk and ripen last. They
are picked at their mature size and usually don't contain chokes.

~ Picking the Right Ones: Choose firm, bright green artichokes with
tightly packed leaves; avoid any with withered, opened leaves, which
indicate that the artichoke is old. Check the base of the plant for
brown spots that might signal decay.

~ Avoiding Discoloration: Artichoke flesh discolors after exposure to
air, so be sure to rub it with lemon soon after cutting. Drop
artichoke hearts into acidulated water when you finish preparing
them; they can be stored overnight in the water. Use stainless steel
or other nonreactive knives and cooking utensils to cut, pare, and
cook the artichokes; cast-iron or aluminum will turn the artichokes
black.

Trimming a Whole Artichoke

Using a large sharp knife, cut off the stem at the base of the
artichoke. Then trim about 1 inch from the top of the leaves.

Using kitchen scissors, trim about  inch from the lower leaves of the
artichoke. Rub the cut edges with a halved lemon.

Perfect Steamed Artichokes

The ideal way to cook whole artichokes is to stem them upside down so
that the hearts aren't exposed to direct heat; this will prevent them
from overcooking. Also, since excess water won't get trapped in the
leaves, the artichokes will not need to be drained after cooking.

Start by trimming the artichokes. In a steamer basket, arrange the
artichokes tops down. Cover and steam over about 2 inches of simmering
water until the leaves can be easily pulled out, about 40 minutes for
large artichokes. Let cool slightly. Spread the artichoke leaves open
and pull out the center cone of small, pale leaves. Using a melon
baller or teaspoon, scrape out the hairy chokes. Serve the artichokes
with a sauce of your choice, simple melted butter, or stuff them.

Food and Wine April 1995
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   04-18-95

