Title: Baklava (Layered Pastry with Walnuts and Honey Syrup)
Categories: Middle east, Greek, Desserts, Pastry
Yield: 1 9x13 tray
MMMMM---------------------------PASTRY--------------------------------
;wide
4 c  Walnuts, shelled; pulverized
;in a blender, nut grinder
;or mortar/pestle
3/4 lb Butter; three 1/4 lb. sticks
;cut into 1/4 inch pieces
1/2 c  Vegetable oil
40    Filo sheets; each about 16
;inches long by 12 inches
MMMMM---------------------------SYRUP--------------------------------
1 tb Lemon juice, fresh
1 tb Honey
1 1/2 c  Sugar
3/4 c  Water
Clarify the butter in a heavy saucepan or skillet in the following
fashion:  Melt the butter slowly over low heat without letting it
brown, skimming off the foam as it rises to the surface.  Remove the
pan from the heat, let it rest for 2 or 3 minutes, then spoon off the
clear butter and discard the milky solids at the bottom of the pan.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees and stir the vegetable oil into the
clarified butter.  Using a pastry brush coat the bottom and sides of
a 13 by 19 by 2 « inch baking dish with about 1 tablespoon of the
mixture.
Fold a sheet of filo in half crosswise, lift it up gently and
unfold it into the prepared dish.  Press the pastry flat, fold down
the excess around the sides and flatten it against the bottom.  Brush
the entire surface of the pastry lightly with the butter and oil
mixture, and lay another sheet of filo on top, folding it down and
buttering it in a similar fashion. Sprinkle the pastry evenly with
about 3 tablespoons of walnuts.
Repeat the same procedure using two sheets of buttered filo and 3
tablespoons of the pulverized walnuts each time to make 19 layers in
all. Spread the 2 remaining sheets of filo on top and brush the
baklava with all of the remaining butter and oil mixture.
With a small, sharp knife score the top of the pastry with parallel
diagonal lines about « inch deep and 2 inches apart, then cross them
diagonally to form diamond shapes.  Bake in the middle of the oven
for 30 minutes.  Reduce the heat to about 300 and bake for 45 minutes
longer, or until the top is crisp and golden brown.

Syrup:
Meanwhile, make the syrup.  Combine the sugar, water and lemon
juice in a small saucepan and, stirring constantly, cook over
moderate heat until the sugar dissolves.  Increase the heat to high
and, timing it from the moment the sugar boils, cook briskly,
uncovered, for about 5 minutes, or until the syrup reaches a
temperature of 220 on a candy thermometer. Remove the pan from the
heat and stir in the honey. Pour the syrup into a bowl or pitcher and
set aside.
When the baklava is done, remove it from the oven and pour the
syrup over it.  Cool to room temperature, and just before serving,
cut the baklava into diamond shaped serving pieces.

99 of 116

Source: Time Life Series: Middle Eastern Cooking  "circa  69"

MMed by: earl.cravens@salata.com
Submitted By EARL CRAVENS   On   04-08-95

