Title: Banana Ketchup
Categories: Condiments
Yield: 1 servings
1 1/2 ts Salt
1/2 ts Cayenne pepper
1/4 c  Light corn syrup
2 ts Ground allspice
3/4 ts Ground cinnamon
3/4 ts Freshly grated nutmeg
1/2 ts Freshly ground black pepper
1/4 ts Ground cloves
2 tb Dark run
1/2 c  Golden raisins
1/3 c  Coarsely chopped onions
2 lg Garlic cloves
1/3 c  Tomato paste
1 1/3 c  Cider vinegar
4 lg Very ripe bananas, peeled
-and cut into chunks
3    To 4 cups water
1/2 c  (packed) dark brown sugar
I've never tried this but I suspect that it's quite similar to the
Filipino Jufran and Mafran sauces that I love so much.  They're made
from bananas also and taste like catsup *should* taste.

Combine the raisins, onions , garlic, tomato paste and 1/3 cup
vinegar in the container of a food processor., Process the mixture
until smooth. Transfer the mixture to a large, heavy saucepan.

Add the banana chunks and another 1/3 cup vinegar to the food
processor container.  Process the mixture until smooth.  Transfer the
banana mixture to the saucepan.  Add the remaining 2/3 cup vinegar, 3
cups water, brown sugar, salt and cayenne pepper.

Bring the mixture in the saucepan to a boil over medium-high heat,
stirring frequently.  Reduce the heat to low and cook the ketchup,
uncovered, stirring occasionally, for 1 1/4 hours.  If the ketchup
threatens to stick to the bottom of the pan at any point, add some of
the remaining water, up to 1 cup.

Add the corn syrup, allspice, cinnamon, nutmeg, pepper and cloves to
the ketchup.  Cook the ketchup over medium-low heat, stirring
frequently, for 15 minutes longer, or until it is thick enough to
coat a metal spoon. Stir in the rum.  Remove the ketchup from the
heat and let it cool a few minutes.

Force the ketchup through a fine sieve to strain it, pressing down
hard on the solids.  Remove the ketchup from the heat and let it cool
to room temperature.  Store the banana ketchup, covered in the
refrigerator for up to 1 month.

Makes about 3 1/2 cups.

San Francisco Chronicle, date unknown.

Posted by Stephen Ceideberg; March 4 1993.

