England, 15th Century
Title: Beef Steaks
Categories: English, Medieval, Meats, Main dish
Yield: 4 servings
1/2 ts Powdered cinnamon
1 ts Pepper
1 ts Salt
4 ea Steaks, thinly sliced
Butter for basting
1/2 c  Parsley, finely chopped
1/2 c  Onion, finely minced
4 ea Hardboiled egg yolks
4 tb Raw beef marrow, minced
-OR- shredded suet
1/2 ts Powdered ginger
MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
1/2 ts Powdered ginger
1/2 ts Powdered cinnamon
2 ea Hardboiled egg yolks, mashed
4 tb Butter
1 tb Wine vinegar
1 tb Verjuice (see rec.) or cider
Mash together the parsley, onion, egg yolks, marrow, ginger,
cinnamon, and salt & pepper and spread on one side of the steaks,
pressing down firmly. Roll the steaks like pancakes and secure with
skewers. Put them in an oiled pan under the grill and grill on both
sides, basting with the butter. Reserve the pan drippings. When they
are done arrange them on a serving dish and keep warm while you
prepare the sauce.

SAUCE Pour the butter and drippings from the grill pan into a small
saucepan and add the butter, the vinegar and the verjuice or cider.
Stir in the spices and thicken the sauce with the mashed egg yolks.
Bring to a boil and simmer for a few seconds. Add the salt and pepper
to taste and pour the sauce over the steaks through a strainer. Serve
very hot.

From "Two Fifteenth-century Cookery Books" "Alows de Beef or de
Mouton: "Take fayre Bef of the quyschons, & mouton of the bottes, &
kytte in the manner of Stekys; than take raw Percely, and Oynyonys
smal y-scredee, and yolkys of Eyroun sothe hard, and Marow or swette,
and hew alle thes to-geder smal; than caste ther-on poudre of Gyngere
and Saffroun tolle hem to-gederys with thin hond, and lay hem on the
stekys al a-brode; and caste Salt ther-to; then rolle togederys, and
put hem on a round spete, and roste hem til they ben y-now; than lay
hem in a dysshe, and pore ther-on Vynegre and a lityl verious, and
pouder Pepir ther-on y-now, and Gyngere, and Canelle, and a fewe
yolkys of hard Eyroun."

_Seven Centuries of English Cooking_   Grove Press, London, 1992
Compiled and updated by Maxime de la Falaise. Typos by Jeff Pruett
(except in the original).
Submitted By JEFF PRUETT   On   04-24-95

