Title: Bouillabaisse Et Rouille
Categories: French, Seafood, Soup/stew
Yield: 6 servings
Salt and freshly ground
-pepper
6 c  Water
1 1/4 c  Dry white wine
2 lb Clams, washed
1 ts Saffron threads
2 ts Pernod
2    Baguettes (French bread) cut
-diagonally into thin slices
2 lg Garlic cloves, peeled
1    Rouille (see recipe)
Stephen Ceideburg
3 lb Assorted white fish *
1/3 c  Olive oil
5    Garlic cloves, chopped
5    To 10 Saffron threads
1 pn Thyme
2 lg Onions, coarsely chopped
3 lb Clean fish bones **
5 lg Tomatoes ***
1    Bouquet garni ****
2    Carrots, coarsely chopped
2    Leeks, coarsely chopped
* such as sea bass, flounder, red snapper, grouper, perch, sole, pike,
haddock, and cod. ** (remove fins, skin, etc. and all traces of
blood) *** peeled, cored, seeded and chopped. **** 1 bay leaf, 1
thyme sprig, 6 parsley sprigs pinch each of grated orange peel,
ground fennel seeds, basil, and oregano.

Provencal fish stew with garlic toast and Red Pepper Mayonnaise

Fillet the fish or have your fishmonger do it for you. Save the
bones. Cut the fish into 1-in (2.5-cm) chunks. Marinate with 2
tablespoons olive oil, 1 clove chopped garlic, a few saffron threads,
and a pinch of thyme for at least 1 hour.

Saute the onions and remaining chopped garlic in 4 tablespoons olive
oil for 4 minutes. Add the fish bones, tomatoes, bouquet garni,
orange peel, fennel seeds, basil, oregano, carrots, leeks, salt and
pepper, and cook covered for 10 minutes. Add the water and 1 cup of
the wine and bring to a boil. Simmer uncovered for 30 minutes, using
a wooden spoon from time to time to crush the bones. Remove from the
heat. Blend the mixture in a blender for a few seconds and then
strain it into a soup pot through a fine strainer lined with
cheesecloth. Discard the residue in the strainer. Taste the stock for
seasoning. If it tastes a little thin, reduce over high heat for a
few minutes until the flavor is more fully developed.

Add the clams and simmer until they just begin to open. Add the fish
and the remaining wine and cook at a rolling boil for 10 minutes. Add
the saffron threads and continue to cook for another 5 minutes. Taste
and season with Pernod, salt and pepper. Pour into warmed individual
bowls.

Meanwhile dry the baguette slices in the oven for a few minutes and
then rub them with the whole cloves of garlic. Top the slices of
bread with plenty of rouille and float them in the bowls of soup.
Serve immediately.

Michael Roberts writing in the Oregonian FOODday, 1/12/93.

Posted by Stephen Ceideburg
Submitted By DALE SHIPP   On   04-02-95

