Title: Chicken Kohlapuri   (Southern India)
Categories: Poultry, Main dish, Indian, Chilies, Hot/spicy
Yield: 4 servings
1 1/2 ts Ground cumin
1 1/4 ts Chili powder
1 sm Can tomatoes
1 1/4 ts Salt or to taste
3/4 c  Water
4 ea To 6 whole green chili
-peppers
1 ts Garam masala
2 tb Chopped coriander leaves
2 1/2 lb Chicken pieces; skinned
1 lg Onion; coarsely chopped
3 cl To 4 cloves garlic; peeled
-and coarsely chopped
1 ea 1" cube of root ginger;
-peeled and coarsely chopped
6 tb Cooking oil
1 ts Ground turmeric
2 ts Ground coriander
...from Kohlapur in Southern India... Recipe uses reduced number of
peppers from regional preference... Preparation time: 15 to 20
minutes Cooking Time: 55 minutes

:1. Cut each chicken piece in two (separate legs from thighs or cut
breast into 2 to 3 pieces); wash and dry on paper towels.
:2. Place the onion, garlic and ginger in a food processor or
blender and blend to a smooth puree. You may need to add a
little water if you are using a blender.
:3. Heat the oil over medium heat and add the pureed ingredients.
Stir and fry for 5 to 6 minutes.
NOTE: "In [Step] 3, it is important to fry the ingredients for
the specified time so that the raw smell of the onions, ginger
and garlic can be eliminated before adding the rest of the
ingredients."
:4. Add turmeric, ground coriander, cumin, and chili powder; adjust
heat to low and fry for 4 to 5 minutes stirring frequently.
:5. Add half the tomatoes, stir and cook for 2 to 3 minutes.
:6. Now add the chicken, stir and cook until chicken changes color
(4 to 5 minutes), then add the rest of the tomatoes, along with
all the juice.
:7. Add salt and water, bring to the boil, cover and simmer until
the chicken is tender. Stir occasionally to ensure that the
thickened sauce does not stick to the bottom of the pan.
:8. Add the whole green chili peppers and garam masala, cover and
simmer for 5 minutes.
:9. Remove from the pan from heat and stir in the coriander leaves.

The author suggests serving with plain brown rice and a dish called
"Mixed Vegetable Bhaji" (basically carrots and potatoes spiced-up).

Suitable for Freezing.

From _The Complete Indian Cookbook_ by Mridula Baljekar CLB
Publishing- Godalming Business Centre, Woolsack Way, Godalming,
Surrey, England. 1993 ISBN 0-8317-1487-5   Typos by Jeff Pruett
Submitted By JEFF PRUETT   On   04-16-95

