Title: Chocolate Pudding Souffle Cake
Categories: Cake/cookie, Desserts
Yield: 1 layer cake
1/4 ts Salt
6    Eggs; 3 separated & 3 whole
1 c  Sugar
1/4 ts Cream of tartar
1/4 c  Butter; unsalted
3 oz Unsweetened chocolate
1/2 c  Cake flour
1/2 ts Baking powder
MMMMM--------------------------PUDDING-------------------------------
8 oz Semisweet chocolate;
-finely chopped
2 ts Vanilla
5    Egg yolks
1/2 c  Sugar
2 tb Cornstarch
2 1/2 c  Heavy cream
Preheat oven to 375.  Butter a 9" springform pan.  In microwave, melt
the butter and unsweetened chocolate.   Stir until smooth, then set
aside. In a small bowl with an electric mixer, beat the 3 whole eggs
and 3 egg yolks with 3/4 cup of the sugar until pale and
lemon-colored. Slowly beat in the chocolate mixture.  Then beat in
the flour mixture. In a medium bowl, beat the egg whites until foamy.
Add the cream of tartar and beat until soft peaks form.  Beat in the
remaining 1/4 cup sugar until stiff glossy peaks form.  Stir 1/3 of
the egg whites into the batter to lighten it. Gently and thoroughly
fold in the remaining whites. Transfer the batter to the prepared pan
and smooth the top. Bake for 40 to 50 minutes, or until the center is
set.  Transfer to a wire rack to cool to room temperature.
Refrigerate until firm.  Meanwhile, make the pudding.  In medium
bowl, lightly beat the egg yolks.  In heavy medium saucepan, whisk
together the sugar and cornstarch.  Gradually whisk in the cream.
Bring the mixture to a boil over low heat, whisking constantly.  Very
gradually whisk the the hot cream into the egg yolks, then return the
mixture to the saucepan and cook over low heat, whisking constantly
until the pudding is thick and steamy; do not let it boil.  Remove
the pudding from the heat, stir in the chocolate and vanilla, and
stir until melted and smooth. Transfer the pudding to a bowl, place a
piece of plastic wrap directly on surface and refrigerate until cold,
at least 2 hours. To assemble: Remove the sides of the springform.
With a long serrated knife, cut the cake horizontally into 3 even
layers. Place one layer on a serving plate. Spread about 3/4 cup
pudding on top.  Top with a second layer and spread with another 3/4
cup of pudding.  Top with the third layer and spread the tops and
sides with the remaining pudding.  Refrigerate until set. Source: Mrs
Fields I Love Chocolate Cookbook
Submitted By MEG ANTCZAK   On   04-10-95

