Title: Choucroute Garni (A Goulasch w/Bratwurst & Smkd. Pork Cho
Categories: Main dish, Meats, Vegetables, Sausage
Yield: 8 servings
2 c  Dry white wine
4 c  Chicken stock
1/4 c  Goose fat
16 sm New potatoes
8    Links Bratwurst cut into 4"
-lengths
1/2 c  Water
8    Smoked pork chops
Fresh parsley, chopped, for
-garnish
3 lb Sauerkraut
1/2 lb Slab Bacon, cut into 1/2"
-dice
2 lg Onions, chopped
4    Garlic cloves, minced
2    Green apples, peeled and
-chopped fine
1/2 ts Dried thyme
2    Bay leaves
1 tb Juniper berries, bruised
1 ts Black peppercorns, bruised
Caution: This recipe will take about 6 to 7 hours of preparation, so
give yourself some room, timewise.

Drain the kraut in a colander. rinse under cold running water. Place
in a large bowl of cold water. Soak for 30 minutes. Drain in
colander. Squeeze out excess moisture by hand. Set aside.

Saute the bacon in a large casserole over moderately low heat,
stirring occasionally, until it has browned and rendered most of its
fat. Add the onions. Saute until just barely tender. Add the garlic.
Cook for one minute.

Add the sauerkraut, apples, thyme, bay leaves, juniper berries,
peppercorns, wine and stock. Spoon the goose fat over the top. Bring
to a simmer. Butter a round of wax paper. Place over the top. Cover.
Cook at a bare simmer for 4 hours.

Add the new potatoes, pushing them down into the sauerkraut. Cook for
one more hour.

While the casserole continues to cook, place the sausage with the
water in a skillet. Bring to a boil. Cook, turning the sausages
several times and pricking them with a fork. Brown the sausages in
the fat which remains in the skillet after the water has evaporated.
Set aside.

Brown the pork chops quickly in the sausage fat over moderately high
heat. Set aside.

Once the potatoes are nearly tender (after about 1 hour of cooking),
add the sausages and pork chops to the casserole, pressing them into
the sauerkraut. Cook for another 30 minutes.

Place the pork chops, sausages and potatoes around the edge of a
heated serving platter. Mound the sauerkraut in the center of the
platter. Garnish with chopped fresh parsley.

recipe provided by Joel Ehrlich typed into MM format by Mary Riemerman
Submitted By MARY RIEMERMAN   On   03-30-95

