Title: Cooking of the Caucasus - Special Ingredients 1
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 info  Abgora
The juice of sour or unripe grapes.

Albukhara
A type of plum found in the Caucasus, light yellow in color,
with a firm flesh and sweet-sour taste. Excellent in sauces,
relishes, jams, compotes, and for drying. Aromatic Peppercorns
These peppercorns, sometimes called "English pepper" are
dark brown in color and have a spicy aroma that suggests a
blend of carnation and cinnamon. Used in soups, stews, and
in pickling.

Barbaris (Barberis, Barberry)
A very common shrub that grows in both a wild and cultivated
state. When ripe, the barbaris berries are bright red and
contain a great deal of malic and citric acid. Fresh berries
are used to make jams, jellies, and syrups. Dried and
powdered berries are used as a seasoning or condiment for a
number of Caucasian specialties such as shashlik and lyulya
kebab. Marinated berries make a pleasantly piquant
accompaniment to roast meats, game, and fowl.

Basturma
(1) Dried beef seasoned with fenugreek, hot peppers, cumin,
garlic, and other spices. Very popular in Armenia both as a
cold cut served as an appetizer or cooked with eggs.
(2) Caucasian grilled marinated meat. Bulgur
Cooked, dried, and cracked wheat. It comes in three sizes:
fine (#1), medium (#2), and coarse (#3). Chick-Peas
Also known as ceci beans in Italian and garbanzo beans in
Spanish.

Coriander
An herb resembling flat-leaf parsley but having a
distinctive aroma and flavor. It is also known as cilantro
and Chinese parsley. Filo (Phyllo)
Paper-thin sheets of dough used in making the many-layered
Caucasian pastries such as pakhlava. Also known as strudel
dough.

Gora
Sour or unripe grapes. Grapevine Leaves
Use freshly picked or preserved leaves.

Kizil (Cornelain Cherry)
A shrub or small tree that grows wild in many areas or the
Caucasus and is occasionally cultivated in gardens as well.
the fruit of the kizik is bright red, oval in shape, tart in
flavor, and has a large kernel. used extensively in the
preparation of jams, compotes, juices, syrups, fruit paste,
soups, and fish and poultry dishes.

Kyurdyuk
Lamb fat taken from under the tail of a certain species of
sheep bred in the Caucasus and Central Asia. Kyurdyuk is a
basic ingredient in Caucasian, particularly Azerbaidzhani,
cuisine, where it is minced or ground and added to soups and
stuffings, cubed and alternated with lean meat on shashlik
skewers, and melted and used like butter for cooking. In
areas where kyurdyuk is unavailable, clarified or ordinary
butter is substitutes; however, the taste is not the same.

Cooking From the Caucasus
by Sonia Uvezian
ISBN 0-15-622594-8
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   03-22-95

