Title: Cook's Corner Questions and Answers
Categories: Information, Question?
Yield: 1 info  Q - What is the difference between an herb and a spice?

A - Herbs are the stems and leaves of plants whereas spices are the
seeds, bark, roots, and fruit.
Q - What is buttermilk? How is it made? What is an alternative?

A - Originally, buttermilk was the low-fat liquid left over from the
churning of cream into butter that was contaminated by airborne
bacteria, causing it to thicken and sour slightly. Today's buttermilk
is not a butter byproduct and is prepared in a controlled
environment. It is made from pasteurized skim milk that has a culture
added to develop a flavor and thickness similar to old-fashioned
buttermilk. Some manugfacturers introduce butter and cream particles
to buttermilk to give it an authentic appearance.

A grat alternative to liquid buttermilk in cooking is cultured
buttermilk blend, a powder that lasts for a year in the refrigerator
after opening. Made from the dehydrated milk left over from
commercial butter-making, it is the next best thing to real
buttermilk. The blend should be used according to package directions
and should not be reconstituted with water and drunk as liquid
buttermilk. It is available in supermarkets throughout the country,
however it is sometimes difficult to find in large metropolitan
areas. For more information call Saco Food, (800) 373-7226. Q - What
is the best way to clean leeks?

A - Clean leeks by trimming away the roots (flush with the base) and
then peeling any blemished outer layers from the bulbs. Cut off the
tough green part, reserving it for stock, so that the leeks are about
six inches long. With a sharp knife slit them in half lengthwise to
within about two inches of their white base and rinse under running
water, separating layers by rubbing them to remove dirt lodged
between the leaf layers.

If a recipe calls for sliced or chopped leeks, slice or chop them
first, and then  put them in a bowl of water. Agitate the water with
your hands to dislodge dirt and let the dirt settle in the bottom of
the bowl. Lift the leeks from the water and drain them well in a
colander. Q - What is callaloo?

A - Callaloo is a classic Caribbean soup made with callaloo greens
and okra and flavored with thyme and salt pork or ham and sometimes
seafood. Trinidad is credited with the invention of this popular
dish, although virtually every island in the Caribbean has its own
version, resulting in a number of different names. The soup is green
in color and can range in cinsistency from hearty to thin.

The callaloo greens come from a variety of tropical plants with edible
leaves. The leaves go by the names taro, elephant ears, dasheen,
malanga, and Chinese spinach and can be found in Caribbean markets.
Swiss chard or spinach can be substituted for them.
Gourmet Magazine April 1995
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   04-18-95

