Title: Couscous bi Sukkar (Couscous with Sugar and Nuts)
Categories: Middle east, Desserts
Yield: 4 servings
4 ts Sugar, confectioners
4 ts Peanuts; finely chopped, or
;almonds or pistachios
1 1/2 c  Semolina, fine: (« pound)
1/4 ts Salt
1/2 c  Water, cold
4 tb Butter, unsalted; melted
Spread the semolina evenly in a large, shallow pan or wide, shallow
bowl. Dissolve the slat in the water, dip your fingers into it and
sprinkle a few drops on the semolina.  Rub the moistened grains
between your palms, lifting and dropping the semolina back into the
pan, until the water has been incorporated with the semolina. Repeat,
adding a few drips of water each time and using only enough to
moisten all the grains and produce tiny irregularly shaped pellets.
If the pellets feel gummy, rub in a little more semolina, a teaspoon
or so at a time. If the pellets feel dry and crumble easily, add a
few more drops of water. To make the pellets smaller and of uniform
size, you may rub them through a coarse sieve once or twice. Whether
you sieve it or not, the couscous can be cooked at once, or covered
and kept at room temperature until ready to use.
Pour boiling water into the lower part of a couscouserie, or other
kind of steamer, to within an inch of the top pan or cooking rack.
You can improvise your own couscouserie with a large pot and a sieve
or colander wide enough to rest on the rim; the bottom of the sieve
or colander should be 3 or 4 inches above the bottom of the pot.
Place the couscous in the top of the couscouserie and cover it
tightly and cover it tightly with foil and a lid.  Bring the water to
a boil over high heat and, keeping the water at a continuous boil,
steam the couscous for 30 minutes.  During the steaming process, it
is wise to keep a kettle of boiling water at hand in case the water
in the steamer needs replenishing.
Transfer the couscous to a wide, shallow bowl or pan and fluff it
with a fork to break up any lumps.  If it appears dry or crumbly, let
it cool and then sprinkle in more water, a few drops at a time,
lifting and rubbing the couscous between your palms as before.
Return the couscous to the steamer, cover tightly again with foil
and a lid, and steam for about 30 minutes more, or until it is soft
but still somewhat resistant to the bite.
To serve, fluff the couscous with a fork and toss it together with
the melted butter.  Spoon the couscous into individual soup plates,
and sprinkle each serving with 1 teaspoon of confectioners sugar and 1
teaspoons of nuts.

103 of 116

Source: Time Life Series: Middle Eastern Cooking  "circa  69"

MMed by: earl.cravens@salata.com
Submitted By EARL CRAVENS   On   04-08-95

