Title: Cutlass Cod Supreme
Categories: Fish, Bbq/grill
Yield: 1 servings
1 ea Never interfere with the
-free movement of the
-accelerator linkage.
Manifold Destiny
By Chris Maynard and Bill
-Scheller
Five NO NO's of automotive
-cooking
This is a srping loaded device that connects the gas pedal with the
carbureator or fuel injection system, thus regulating the flow of
fuel to the cylinders. If it jams, either you won't go or you won't
stop. Give it a wide berth! 2 Blocking the flow of air into the
engine's air intake. Internal combustion requires gas, and air. Let
your motor breathe! 3 Indiscrimate yanking on wires, and so forth to
secure the food packages. 4 Placing, checking, or removing food
packages with the motor running. Fans, and belts are fast moving
parts that can bite you! 5 Foil wrapping foods with too much liquid.
Aluminum foil may make a wonderful cooking tool but it no replacement
for a pot. One of the recommended locations for cooking on the engine
is atop the flat fuel injector housing. First you need to check the
clearance between the top of the fuel injector housing and the hood
of the car. First make a cone of aluminum foil about 5 inches tallp
Put it on the housing where you plan to cook and then close the hood.
Now lift the hood and see how much of the cone has been flattened.
This will give you an indication of the space you have available to
use for cooking. If it is a very short height then you may only be
able to cook flat things like fish fillets there. If it has too much
clearance you may have to put extra foil *on top* to help secure the
cooking package in place. You will have to look at your car engine to
determine where the best places are for cooking. Look for spots that
don't interfere with the safe operation of your vehicle. Stay away
from belts, fans, and linkages as they pose special threats to your
safety if they don't function properly. Foil wrapping techiques The
biggest rule seems to be triple wrap everything. Be careful of pointy
things like chicken wings and such that can poke through the foil.
One idea is to wrap the pointy parts loosely, wadding foil to make a
cushion of the pointy spot. The two subsequent layers can be wrapped
more securely. Leave enough foil on the sides to make a secure
overlapping fold. You may need to use extra wide foil. Bring the foil
up around the top of the food and make a flat, interlocking seam,
like the ones on a good pair of jeans and tuck the excess underneath
on both sides. You might try alternating the direction of the seams
on each layer but if all your seams run on top of each other be sure
to put the seamless side of your package against the engine for
better heat distribution. It makes no difference whether you use
heavy duty foil or regular, or whether you put the shiny side out or
inside the package. Be careful when unwrapping your packages, you may
have to re-wrap them if they are not quite done. Aluminum foil
becomes more brittle when heated so extra caution is required. Do not
cook things that include too much liquid as that makes the package
easier to puncture. I suppose you could use a can or other simi rigid
device that was in turn wrapped in foil (3 times). Do not try to boil
foods, you will leave a trail of soup down the center lane <G>.
Lekewise don't think that you can roast anything to a crispy stage of
doneness, the best you can hope for is a nice browning by minimizing
the use of liquid, or by cooking it long enough that the liquid cooks
away and leaves the surface to brown. What you can do is braise
foods, cook them gently in a small amount of liquid, just enough to
transfer heat and seasonings. CUTLASS COD SUPREME Distance 40-70
miles. 4 cod fillets 4 tablespoons butter 1 tablespoon lemon juice At
home or on the road, using 1 or 2 tablespoons of the butter, grease 4
separate sheets of foil. place a cod fillet on each sheet, dot with
the remaining butter and sprinkle with lemon juice. Wrap each fillet
separately. Cook 45 minutes to one hour and 15 minutes, depending on
the thickness of the fillets and the location on the engine. If you
want to get a little fancier and do some advance preparation in your
kitchen try this version. To above ingredients add: 2 tablespoons
butter 1 small onioin very finely minced 1 1/2 teaspoon dried
tarragon paprika to taste At home, melt butter add onion, lemon
juice, and tarragon. Arrange each fillet on a separate piece of foil
and brush both sides liberally with butter mixture. Dust with paprika
and wrap. Cook same as original recipe. Origin: Manifold Destiny, by
Chris Maynard and Bill Scheller Typed in painstakingly and by hand by
Hap newsom 10-30-94

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   04-23-95

