Title: Dehydrator General Instructions
Categories: Can/preserv, Information
Yield: 1 servings
No Ingredients Found
Remember that MOVEMENT OF WARM AIR is the principle of the dehydrator.
Conditons at all times should encourage the movement of air.  Food and
herbs should be arranged with open spaces between pieces to expedite
drying.  After the original wilting or shrinking, materials can be
consolidated to make more rooms.  Loosely arranged material is the
rule of thumb.

TEMPERATURE CONTROL requires the use of a thermometer to help the
operator become familiar with management of various materials to be
dried. Temperatures should range between 95F and 105F, but not more
thatn 110F. The warmer temperatures require closer supervision so
that drying may be stopped at the ideal point.  Temperature is
controlled first by proper regulation of the heating unit, and
second, by.... VENTILATION. The top cover of you dehydrator is more
that it may seem. It provides both work surface and ventilation
control, vital to proper dehydrations. Top must be open to allow for
removal of moisture from the drying foods, and to help control the
temperature.  Amount of opening will vary, but usually about two
inches is adequate.  The dryer top isdesigned to be a functional work
sruface, for preparation and packaging of dried materials. TRAY CARE
is simple and easy.  Wiping with a damp cloth is often all that is
needed. When necessary, trays can be washed and brushed, towel dried
and replaced in the dehydrator to finish the drying cycle. DON'T
OVERLOAD YOUR TRAYS. They'll hold a lot, but too much weight will
cause strain on the trays. Reasonable care in handling will assure a
long life for the trays, and unit. LOAD LIMITS. If operation
instructions have been followed, the dehydrator should work at full
capacity.  However, if for instance, all trays are filled with moist
fruit, the drying may seem slowat first.... but temperature checking
and TRAY ROTATION will assure that dehydration proceeds successfully.
Tray rotation simply means to KEEP THE FOOD NEAREST COMPLETION ON THE
BOTTOM, so that moisture from other trays won't be transferred to the
nearly dry material. Remembering that heat and the moisture with it,
rises.  TURNING THE TRAYS a quarter of a turn each time you check the
contents of your dryer, will also help ensure even drying. DRYING
VERY JUICY FOODS (Fruit Leathers) is easy with the help of plastic
wrap like Saran Wrap, or Handi-Wrap.  Parchment paper can be used for
'baking' Granola and breakfast cookies.  If you need to, only cover
half of the drying surface on each tray so that as you stack the
trays, you can alternate. (right half of bottom tray, left half of
next one, etc) STRONG SMELLING FOODS such as fish, should be dried
seperately, but may be place directly on the tray.  Wash trays after
such use to be sure that any odor or residue will not affect the
flavor of whatever is dried next. CAREFUL STORAGE is vital for
keeping foods at peak quality.  Correct storage must eliminate
MOISTURE, AIR, AND LIGHT, and at the same time, remain convenient.
For this purpose, fairly heavy plastic bags are both functional and
reuseable.  Store small quantities of everything, an amount suitable
for your own family's needs.  This not only makes it simpler for you
to use your stored food, but also prevents contamination of large
amounts of food should a small quantity, for any reason, begin to
spoil. This is REAL food, no addedcolors, no chemical preservatives,
and can be mighty tempting to a bug.  Careful storage will prevent
possible insect infestation. Glass container are excellent too, but
they do require more shelf room. Careful consideration must be taken
to seal jars securely, so that no air or moisture can enter. With all
the stored foods, and ESPECIALLY herbs, DARKNESS IS VITAL. LABEL
EVERYTHING. Labeling is part of packaging.  It is quite disconcerting
to pick up a lovely package of herb tea, and wonder just what herb it
is! (When drying several kinds at once, this can happen within
MINUTES of bagging it) In the herb kingdom, there are many look
alikes and even smell alikes. The correct NAME AND DATE should be
apparent at a glance. Origin: Dry It - You'll Like it, circa 1973.
Shared by: Sharon Stevens, Jan/95.

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   04-05-95

