Title: DOUBLE CAPPUCCINO HEAVEN
Categories: Desserts, Low cal/fat
Yield: 12 servings
2 c  Egg whites
-(1 C equals about 8 large)
1 1/2 ts Cream of tartar
1/4 ts Salt
2 ts Vanilla extract
1 1/2 c  Superfine sugar
3/4 c  Cake flour
1/3 c  Cocoa
- preferably Dutch process
2 tb Instant espresso powder
MMMMM-----------------CAPPUCCINO FLUFF FROSTING----------------------
2 ts Vanilla extract
2 tb Cocoa
- preferably Dutch process
2 ts Instant espresso powder
1 pn Salt
2 lg Egg whites
1/2 tb Superfine sugar
3/4 c  Light corn syrup
12    Marshmallows
- each cut into 8 pieces
- (use scissors)
Angel cake is not only no-cholesterol and no-fat but absolutely
delicious with a light, puffy texture. Here, the cappuccino flavor is
so deep that it's hard to believe that it lacks any fat at all.

PREHEAT OVEN TO 375F with rack in center of oven. Have an ungreased
10-inch tube pan ready. Divide sugar in half. Sift 1/2 3 times. Set
aside. Sift other half with flour, cocoa and espresso powder 3 times.
Set aside. Put egg whites in 4-quart grease-free bowl. Beat on low
speed with mixer until frothy. Add cream of tartar and salt. Increase
speed to medium. Beat until whites are whipped and hold their shape
but are still soft and moist. Add 3/4 cup sifted sugar, 1 tablespoon
at a time, beating well after each addition, until all sugar is
added. Add vanilla. Stop beating when whites have increased in volume
about fivefold, hold their shape and are shiny and smooth. Gently but
thoroughly fold in flour mixture, by thirds. Transfer to baking pan.
Smooth surface with spatula. Cut through batter in 6 places to break
any large air pockets. Bake until toothpick inserted in center comes
out clean, about 35-to-40 minutes, laying piece of foil lightly over
top if it gets too brown. Invert and rest tube on inverted custard
cup. Prop pan extensions with crumpled foil to secure pan. Cool
completely. When cake is completely cool, use flexible knife to
loosen it from sides of pan. Invert onto rack. Keep cake at room
temperature 2 days, well covered, or frozen (airtight) as long as 3
months. Be sure to thaw at room temperature in wrapping. Frost.

CAPPUCCINO FLUFF FROSTING: Put egg whites, sugar and corn syrup in
top of double boiler. Place over simmering water. Immediately use
mixer at medium speed to beat ingredients until fluffy, white and
warmed through, about 5 minutes. Stir in marshmallows. Once combined,
beat at lowest speed until marshmallows are melted and mixture is
smooth. Remove from heat. Stir in vanilla, cocoa, espresso and salt.
Spread on top and sides of cake. Yield: frosting for 1 10-inch tube
cake.

ABBY MANDEL - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK

