Title: Filet Of Beef With Horseradish And Herb Crust
Categories: Meats, Salsa/sauce
Yield: 4 servings
Finely
1 lg Peeled shallot -- chopped
Finely
1 1/2 c  Beef stock
4 oz Clarified butter -- divided
1    Scant cup bread crumbs
1/2 c  Port wine
Salt and Pepper
4    Sprigs Rosemary for garnish
4    Beef filets (5 - 6 oz each)
1 oz (2 T) Mixture of fresh
Herbs* -- chopped finely
2 oz Beef marrow
1    Clove Garlic -- crushed
2 tb Horseradish
2 tb Unsalted butter plus 2
Dollops
3 lg Peeled shallots -- sliced
* Rosemary, thyme, tarragon and parsley. Reserve 1/8 tsp. or the
rosemary and thyme

Preheat oven to 400~. Put unsalted butter in skillet set on high
heat. Salt and pepper filets and brown on all sides. Transfer filets
to the grill of a roasting pan.

Crust:  Put 2 oz. clarified butter in a saucepan set on med-high
heat. Add the 3 finely sliced shallots and garlic and saute. Sprinkle
in bread crumbs. Stir to absorb the butter. Add the herb mixture
reserving 1/8 tsp. of rosemary and thyme for sauce. Remove from heat.
Add the horseradish and stir. Add beef marrow, a sprinkling of pepper
and a dash of salt. Stir lightly. Divide in four and mound on top of
the beef filets. Place filets in oven for 8 - 10 minutes or until the
crust is golden brown.

Rosemary Port Wine Sauce:  Place the 1 chopped shallot and 2 oz.
clarified butter in a saucepan set on high heat. Stir. Add the
remaining 1/8 tsp. herb mixture and stir. Add port wine and reduce
for a few minutes, while shaking the pan. (the Chef flamed the wine
and let it reduce until the flames went out). Add the beef stock and
cook 2 minutes. Strain sauce through a wire-mesh sieve. Place sauce
back on high heat allowing sauce to boil and reduce while removing
filets from oven and placing them on serving plates. Drop 2 dollops
of butter into sauce and dissolve. Pour sauce around each filet and
garnish with a sprig of rosemary.

Chef: David Hunt, Auchterarder House, Auchterarder, Scotland

12/94 Typed for you by Marjorie
3/19/95
Source:  World Class Cuisine
Scofield

: Chef: David Hunt, Auchterarder House, Scotland
Recipe By

Date: 03-26-95 (159) Fido:
From: Marjorie Scofield
Cooking

