Title: Fire Roasted Red Bell Peppers & 9 Ways to Use Them+
Categories: Information, Vegetables
Yield: 1 info
MMMMM-----------------------NO INGREDIENTS----------------------------
You can use tongs to hold a sweet red bell pepper over a gas flame,
turning until completely charred. Place the pepper in a small paper
bag and close. let it set in the bag for 20 minutes. Remove from bag.
Scrape the char away with the blade of a paring knife. Cut in two and
remove the seeds and whitish stringy part also. Cut the pepper in
thin strips.

The alternative is to buy a jar of roasted sweet red peppers.

Nine things to do with the peppers:

1. Mediterranean Pepper Salad: dress with olive oil, balsamaic or
white wine vinegar, and top with crumbled feta, chopped fresh thyme,
and/or balck Meditteranean olives.

2. Near East Pepper Salad: Top with sliced boiled potatoes, curried
yogurt, chopped fresh cilantro and mint.

3. Roasted Red Pepper and Cheese Spread: Puree 1 garlic clove, then
add 3 roasted red peppers and puree. When smooth, add 3 oz. cream
cheese (1/2 cup) and chopped fresh oregano to taste. Serve
accompanied with crusty light wheat bread.

4. Harrisa: Puree roasted red peppers, then season to taste with
ground cumin, hot pepper sauce, chopped fresh cilantro, and lemon
juice.

5. Roasted Red Pepper amd Beans Pasta: Add thin slices of roasted red
peppers to tomato sauce, along with a handful of broccoli flowerettes
and diced peeled broccoli stems, and 1/2 cup cooked kidney beans.
Pour over any al dente pasta.

6. Red Pepper and Chicken Salad: add strips of tangy red peppers to a
simple mayonnaise-or aioli-based chicken salad.

7. Red Pepper and Green Olive Relish: chop roasted red peppers and
combine with coarsely chopped green olives, chopped garlic, olive
oil, chopped fresh oregano, and a dash of red wine vinegar. Serve
with cold meats or as a sandwich relish, in crusty rolls.

8. Potato Salad: Cut strips or chop roasted red peppers and use as a
garnish for a vinaigrette or mayonnasie based potato salad.

9. Roasted Red Peppers Relish and Fried Sole: Thinly slice roasted red
peppers and toss with red wine vinegar. Use as a relish for golden
brown sauteed sole fillets, along with a sprrinkling of a few capers.

I have actually roasted up to 4 peppers at a time, just kept turning
them. It's really not too hard. It's also not a bad idea to keep a
jar of the canned roasted red peppers for quick snacks or lunches.

I have used several of the ideas listed above and I really love them.

