Title: Fruit Sweet and Sugar Free - Crimson Pie
Categories: Diabetic, Desserts
Yield: 8 servings
MMMMM---------------------------CRUST--------------------------------
Egg wash for pies and tarts
1    Basic pie crust, bottom
1    10-inch top crust
MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
3/4 c  Fruit sweetener
3 tb Cornstarch
1 tb Butter
1/2    Orange, seeded, not peeled
4 c  Fresh or frozen blueberries
3 1/4 c  Fresh or frozen cranberries
Prepare the bottom and top crusts according to the directions.
Coarsely grind the half orange (peel included) in a food processor or
blender. Put the ground orange in a saucepan along with the
blueberries and cranberries, and 1/4 cup of the sweetener. Cook over
medium heat until the mixture comes to a boil. Meanwhile dissolve the
cornstarch in the remaining 1/2 cup of sweetener. When the berry
mixture is boiling, whisk in the dissolved cornstarch, stirring
constantly. When the mixture returns to a boil, reduce the heat and
simmer for five minutes. Remove from the heat. Place the filling in a
bowl and cool it completely before pouring it into an unbaked crust.
The filling can be prepared up to a week in advance and refrigerated.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Pile the filling into the unbaked pie
crust. Cut the butter into four or five pieces and dot them over the
filling. Prepare the egg wash and brush it on the rim of the crust.
Cover the pie with the top crust. Seal the edges by pressing lightly
with the tines of a fork. Use the dull side of a small knife to trim
off any pastry extending beyond the edge of the pie pan. Brush the
top crust with Egg wash. Use a sharp knife to make a few slits in the
top crust to release steam while cooking. To bake the pie, place it
on a baking sheet in the preheated oven, directly on the floor of a
gas oven or on the lowest shelf of an electric oven. Bake the pie for
about 1 hour, until the crust is golden and the filling is bubbling.
Serve crimson pie hot from the oven or at room temperature.
Submitted By JIM WELLER   On   04-09-95

