Title: General Information about Beans 2
Categories: Information
Soaking Beans
Yield: 1 info

All dried beans should be soaked after first picking them over. * In
contrast to high-moisture foods that usually shrink during cooking,
dried beans seeds  - when soaked and then cooked -  will absorb
enough moisture to more than double in volume and weight. Soaking
helps return the moisture that the beans have lost during drying.
Soaking softens them and makes them easier to cook. * It is quite
difficult to determine the age of beans, since packages are not
dated, or you may have purchased beans that have been lying on a
shelf for some time. * Soaking helps prevent skins from cracking or
bursting while cooking and before they become tender enough to eat. *
After proper soaking, cooking time is reduce by about one half.
Prolonged cooking will also cause a loss of vitamins and minerals. *
Soaking helps break down and leach out the indigestible sugar that
may cause intestinal gas. * During soaking, some beans may rise to
the surface. these may be the older beans with little moisture that
were harvested prematurely, with the bean shrinking within its seed
coat and sometimes trapping dirt. This is the time to easily locate
and discard them. * The only exceptions to soaking before cooking are
split peas and lentils. * Current crop beans grown in the spring,
harvested in late summer or early fall and purchased from a reputable
dealer with a fast turnover of product probably do not require
soaking, but even then, you can't be certain of freshness - and
soaking won't harm the beans in any way.

How To Soak

Beans usually absorb most of the water they need to rehydrate and
swell in about four hours at room temperature. The prime rule for
soaking is always soak in tepid water. Some books and recipe
instructions call for cold water, but cold water has a tendency to
make the beans tougher.

Before Soaking: Pick over the beans thoroughly. Then place the beans
in a strainer, place the strainer in tepid water in a large bowl and
swish them around. Some tiny bits may float to the top along with
some bean shells. Skim off before pouring off the rest of the water
so that they don't mix with the beans again. Repeat the process two
or three times in tepid water. Then put the beans in a large bowl and
cover with water about four times the volume of the beans.

Long Soaking Method (six to nine hours): This is the traditional "long
soak" or "overnight soak" that traditional recipes use and it is still
quite acceptable. If for some reason you find you have to extend the
soaking time for as much as a day or two, just be sure to change the
water at least once a day so the beans don't ferment. If you live in a
particularly hot climate, change the water more often. After soaking,
drain and discard the soaking water and rinse the beans in tepid
water and proceed with the recipe instructions.

Short Soaking Method: This is a time saver if you decide at the last
minute that beans are to be part of your menu. Put the picked-over
and washed beans in a three-quart saucepan. Add hot tap water to
cover the beans by about two to three inches and bring slowly to a
boil over medium-high heat. Boil for two minutes, then remove the pot
from the heat. Cover and let the beans soak for about one hour. Drain
off the soaking water. Then rinse the beans in a colander with fresh,
tepid water, turning them gently so that all of them are rinsed;
proceed with the recipe instructions.

Some Tips

* Use about four times the volume of water to beans for soaking. *
Never cook beans in the water in which they've been soaking. Soaking
leaches out the complex sugars and cooking in the same water will let
the beans reabsorb them. The complex sugars can cause the gas that
bothers many people. * Don't add salt to the soaking water. Salt will
toughen the seed coat and prevent absorption of the water. * For
beans that do not require soaking before they are cooked (split peas,
lentils), just rinse them in tepid water, drain and continue with
your recipe. * Some "old wives tales" call for adding baking soda to
the soaking water. Avoid this if possible. Baking soda should only be
added to the hardest of hard water, since it affects the flavor,
destroys the nutrients and makes the beans mushy. If you live in a
hard water area and feel you must add baking soda, use no more than
one-eighth teaspoon to one cup of dry beans.

The Versatile Grain
and the
Elegant Bean
by Sheryl and Mel London
ISBN 0-671-76106-4
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   03-19-95

