Title: General Information about Beans 1
Categories: Information
Buying Beans
Yield: 1 info

For the consumer, there are four basic categories of beans: * Fresh
Shell Beans: Snow peas, green peas, sugar snap peas, string beans,
lima beans, runner beans, yellow wax bean, purple crowder peas, tan
and mottled red cranberry beans and black-eyed peas. When they're in
season, there's no real substitute. * Dried Beans: With the largest
selection of all the categories, in supermarkets, specialty shops and
ethnic and natural food stores. They are the easiest to process, ship
and store. * Frozen Beans: With some varieties frozen very quickly
after harvesting, thus maintaining flavor and nutrition, though
losing some textural qualities. * Canned Beans: Acceptable under
certain conditions with some important guidelines. Whenever a recipe
calls for the use of cooked beans, canned beans can be used as a
substitute, so long as they are drained and rinsed before adding to
the recipe.

Storing Beans

Dried Beans: Any airtight container will do, and the room should be
fairly cool. Keep in mind that beans do age and the longer they
remain on display, the longer they'll take to reconstitute through
soaking, and to soften when they cook. Contents of packages bought
several months apart should not be mixed when storing, since older
beans will take longer to cook.

Cooked Beans: Cooked beans will keep quite well in the refrigerator
for up to three days and they can be frozen for much longer periods
of time. * Divide your cooked beans in portion sizes or recipe-size
containers. If you freeze too many, they'll form an impossible, solid
block of beans. * Cooked beans will keep in the freezer for up to one
year. * Packages of beans from the freezer case at the supermarket
will also keep from six months up to one year. * Bean soups will keep
in the freezer for three to six months.

Cleaning Beans

Spread the beans in a pan and then pick through them carefully,
removing and discarding and foreign matter.

The Versatile Grain
and the
Elegant Bean
by Sheryl and Mel London
ISBN 0-671-76106-4
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   03-19-95

