Title: Hot Spicy Candy
Categories: Candies, Hot/spicy
Yield: 1 servings
-Clove, or Peppermint
-OR_
Fruit Flavoring
2 lb Confectioner's Sugar
-(see note)
3 3/4 c  Granulated Sugar
1 1/2 c  Light Corn Syrup
1 c  Water
Paste Or Liquid Pure
-Food Coloring
1    Dram * Oil Of Cinnamon,
* 1 DRAM = scant teaspoon

1. Place the sugar, syrup and water in a large saucepan. Bring slowly
to a boil with candy thermometer attached to side of pan. Heat the
mixture to exactly 290 degrees F. (This will take 15 to 20 mins.)
Higher, the candy sets to hard; short of 290, it won't set up. Remove
from the heat and add the desired coloring. Paste colors are intense;
a dab on a toothpick should give a deep color. Becareful with liquid
colors; too much may dilute the candy mixture and impede setting.

2. Stir in the oil flavoring. STAND BACK! The mixture steams up and
releases strong fumes.

3. Have ready 3 jelly roll pans on which you have placed a 3/4 inch
thick layer of confectioners' sugar. With a finger, trace a spiral
trough in each pan.

4. Carefully pour the liquid into the troughs; the little walls of
confectioners' sugar keep it from spreading. When the candy has
hardened and is cool enough to touch; a matter of mins., take
scissors and snip it into short pieces, or snap off pieces with your
fingers. Roll them in sugar. Sealed in containers, the candy last for
months.

NOTE: You can reuse the confectioners' sugar. Between candy-making
bouts, store the sugar in a self-sealing plastic bag.

Makes about 4 cups.

This recipe comes from Jane Brodhecker and was submitted to the
section on the SUSSEX COUNTY FARM & HORSE SHOW of Augusta, N.J. Fair
dates: Generally, the 1st week of August, lasting 10 days.

Jane's notes indicate she made this with her kids and they now make
it with theirs. Use red coloring for cinnamon, black for anise, and
purple for spearmint. She says that flavored oils; cinnamon, anise,
wintergreen, etc, can be found in some pharmacies and specialty food
shops. She says intense fruit flavors are great. The process sounds
complicated but, according to Jane, is very easy. Batches of mixed
colors in a nice jar with decorations make wonderful gifts.

: The County Fair Cookbook - ISBN 0-7868-6014-6
Recipe By

Date: 03-29-95 (18) (E)Homecooki
From: Dan Klepach

