Title: Indian Cookery
Categories: Information, Indian
Yield: 1 servings
No Ingredients Found
Indian cookery varies from state to state and often from town to
town. It is not something which belongs to recent civilization but
dates back for centuries and is a combination of cookery of the Hindu
and MOhammedan on which other minorities revolve.  That being the
case, it is a very wide subject which is difficult to cover in a
concise form. However, Pillaus, Birianis and Curries are universally
know in India. Similarly Koftahs, Kormas, Pickles, Chatnis, Bhajias,
and other recipes are too numerous to mention and their preparation
varies from place to place. At the same time, it is withing the
capabilities of every cook to make perfect Pillaus, Curries, and
other delicious dishes if the general outlines and methods of Indian
cookery are adopted and observed. It is no doubt true that the
cooking of some INdian dishes is tedious and complicated, yet if the
method is once understood and followed properly and carefully, these
can be prepared in any country.  India's various ingredients used in
the making of dishes and other preparations are unique. Generally
such ingredients are ground separately into powders and pastes on
"Curry Stone". Another important thing to remember is that weights
and measures are seldom used according to any hard and fast rule. The
Indian housewife is invariably expert in adjusting the ratios and
proportions. Bearing this in mind and knowing how the different
cuisine of the West and other foreign countries is carried on, every
recipe has been worked out in weights and measures familiar to
Western housewives.  But even so, individual taste must be exercised
in each case.  The appended equivaltents will enable the reader
easily to convert Avoirdupois into Indian weight: 1 seer= 2 lb; 1
chittack= 2 oz;  2-1/2 tolahs= 1oz;  1 masha=19 grams

or about 1/8 tsp.  so far as the preparation of Indian dishes is
concerned, if authentic flavour is desired, it is always better to
import from India ready made curry powders and spices.  A really good
curry powder that will keepf or years and produce perfect curry, is
made up of different seeds, roots and spices carefully chosen, well
proportioned and nicely blended. These ingredients and powders have
been evolved after centuries of research and experiment.  Curry acts
on the digestive system with the very best results, for many of these
ingredients are carminative in action apart from being aromatic and
appetizing. It should also be borne in mind that gas and electric
cooking, unless handled carefully, is not satisfactory for preparing
some of the Indian Pillaus, etc. In India in most cases lumps of
burning charcoal or soft coke have to be put on the lids of cooking
utensils with a very low fire below.  This system is called "DUM".
Origin: Mrs. Beeton's Cookery Book Shared by: Sharon Stevens

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   03-29-95

