Title: Information
Categories: Bbq/grill, Vegetables
Yield: 2 servings
MMMMM--------------------FROM: MICHELLE BASS-------------------------
Pat,
Brian and I have had a smoker for about 14 years now.  We really have
gotten quite used to it and use it at least once or twice a week all
year round.  There are things that we cook on it that have really
become staples ++ turkey, tasso, eye of round roast (a cut I've never
enjoyed in the oven), tomatoes, onions... With the purchase of the
Weber smoker a few years ago, we've begun doing something that has
made cleanup a lot easier, too.  Perhaps others have been doing this
all along. We now cover the water pan with aluminum foil before
beginning; after the smoker has cooled, we just wrap up the foil (the
heavy duty type) and dispose. It's particularly nice when we've
forgotten to empty it for a couple of days ++ one quick fold and the
dreaded task is over. Next time you smoke something, put these on the
top rack. Take some tomatoes and cut off the stem end. Quarter the
tomato from the top, without slicing all the way through to the
bottom, so the tomato is still in one piece. Salt and pepper it while
holding the sections open; use some garlic powder or slice some fresh
garlic, adding it between the sections.  Also season with fresh
oregano or fresh basil (mmm!).  Cut a few scallions to size and push
them down between the sections (they tend to hold the tomato open
which is good for the smoked flavor).  You can also delete the salt
and use some anchovy paste in each tomato.  Then finish with a
tablespoon of some good fresh grated Romano or Parmesan.  Put them in
a pyrex dish that holds them tightly together and smoke for about 15
or 20 minutes, just until hot. They are delicious and, of course, fat
free and virtually calorie free as well. Easy to experiment with
different seasonings and goodies inside. We don't cover these as they
cook very quickly and we want the smoked flavor. (These can also be
cooked on a grill but indirect heat must be used.) Pat, we have a
friend with a large garden and he smokes his tomatoes before making
salsa. A very unique flavor.  Another great thing to smoke is red
bell peppers before making soup (or dip or sauce or salad dressing)
with them. We normally use the hickory blocks (you asked in another
message), Pat, as they're easily purchased.  We sometimes use
mesquite blocks when we see them. We also use pecan tree wood and
peach tree wood that my relatives save when they trim their trees. I
can't wait to see what you dream up; keep me posted. ++Michelle

Submitted By PAT STOCKETT   On   04-12-95

