Title: Lemon Pansy Pie - Country Living
Categories: Desserts, Pie/tart, Fruit
Yield: 8 servings
1 c  (1/2 pint) heavy cream
1 pk Unflavored gelatin
1/4 c  Water
Crystallized pansies (opt.,
-see Note)
Pastry (recipe follows)
2 lg Eggs
3 lg Egg yolks
3/4 c  Sugar
1/2 c  Lemon juice
1 tb Grated lemon rind
1. At least 40 minutes before making pie, prepare Pastry. While
pastry is chilling, start lemon cream filling. In 1-quart saucepan
with wire whisk, beat together eggs, egg yolks, sugar, lemon juice,
and rind. Cook over low heat, stirring constantly with wooden spoon,
until mixture thickens and coats spoon-about 10 minutes. (Do not
boil.) Strain and set aside.

2. When pastry has chilled, heat oven to 400'F. Between 2 sheets of
floured waxed paper, roll out pastry to an 11-inch round. Remove top
sheet of paper and invert pastry into 9-inch pie plate, letting
excess extend over edge. Remove remaining sheet of waxed paper. Fold
excess pastry under so that it is even with rim of plate. With fork,
pierce bottom and all around side of pastry to prevent shrinkage.
Line pastry with aluminum foil and fill with uncooked dried beans or
pie weights.

3. Bake pastry crust 15 minutes; remove foil with beans and bake 10
to 12 minutes longer or until crust is golden. Cool crust completely
on wire rack.

4. When pastry crust has cooled, beat cream until soft peaks form; set
aside. In small saucepan, combine gelatin and water; heat over low
heat, stirring just until gelatin dissolves. Stir gelatin mixture
into cooled lemon mixture. Fold whipped cream into lemon mixture
until blended. Spread lemon cream filling in pastry crust and
refrigerate 2 hours or until firm. 5. Before serving, place pansies
around edge and in center of pie, if desired.

Pastry: In medium-size bowl, combine 1 1/4 C unsifted all purpose
flour, 1/4 C sugar, and 1/4 t salt. With pastry blender or 2 knives,
cut 1/4 C (1/2 stick) butter and 1/4 C vegetable shortening into
flour mixture until mixture resembles coarse crumbs. Sprinkle 2 to 3
T cold water over flour mixture, mixing lightly until pastry holds
together when lightly pressed. Shape pastry into flattened ball. Wrap
and refrigerate 30 minutes.

Note: Crystallized pansies can be found in gourmet shops or ordered
by mail from Grapevine Trading Co., 59 Maxwell Court, Santa Rosa,
Calif. 95401; (707) 576-3950.

Country Living/Oct/94 Scanned & edited by Di Pahl & <gg>
Submitted By LAWRENCE KELLIE   On   03-21-95

