Title: Long Island Duck with Grapefruit
Categories: Poultry, Masterchefs, New york
Yield: 4 servings
1/3 c  Vinegar, red wine
3 c  Duck stock ** OR
3 c  Veal stock **
Blanched vegetables ***
2    Duck, Long Island, (about
-- five pounds each)
2    Grapefruit
1/4 c  Sugar
** See recipes for Duck Stock and Veal Stock.

*** An assortment of blanched vegetables should be used as
garnish for this dish.  You might consider using green beans,
asparagus, broccoli, or julienne of carrots, zucchini, turnips, tied
into bundles with strips of blanched leek

Place the duck, uncovered, in the refrigerator for 4 days to dry
out the skin.

Preheat the oven to 500 F.

Cut off the tail and excess neck skin from the ducks and remove
all excess fat.  Place the ducks, breasts up on a rack in a roasting
pan. Tuck wing tips under.  Roast until crisp and well browned, about
1 hour.

With a sharp paring knife, remove a thin slice from the top and
bottom of each grapefruit, then remove the skin of the fruit in long
strips. Set aside.

Cutting between the membrane, cut the grapefruit into sections
and set aside.

Place the sugar and wine vinegar in a heavy-bottomed saucepan.
Cook over medium high heat until the vinegar has evaporated and the
sugar has caramelized lightly.

Carefully add the stock and bring the mixture to a boil.  Simmer
at low boil for 5 minutes.

Add grapefruit skins to the mixture and simmer 3 minutes longer.

Strain the mixture into a clean saucepan and simmer until reduced
enough to coat a spoon lightly.

Adjust seasoning with salt and pepper and keep it warm.

Transfer the duck to a work surface.  Run a sharp knife under the
wishbone at the front of the duck's breast, then carefully slip the
knife between each breast half and carcass.  Remove the breasts, and
then take off the legs and thighs in one piece.

Lightly coat a warm serving plate with the sauce.  Place the
duck over the sauce and arrange the grapefruit sections, overlapping,
on top. Garnish with blanched vegetables as desired, and serve,
passing the rest of the sauce around separately.

Source:  New York's Master Chefs, Bon Appetit Magazine
:  Written by Richard Sax, Photographs by Nancy McFarland
:  The Knapp Press, Los Angeles, 1985

Chef:  Michel Fitoussi, 24 Fifth Avenue, New York

