Title: Manuel's Rye Sour (Roberta's Sourdough Rye to follow)+
Categories: Breads
Yield: 1 sourdough
1 1/2 c  Water
1/2 ts Milk
1    Grain (granule) yeast
1 c  Rye berries freshly ground
-or 1 1/2 cups whole rye
-flour
Mix together the flour, water, milk and seed grain of yeast until
smooth. The batter should be the consistancy of pancake batter. Keep
it at room temperature, 65 to 80 fdegrees, in a non-metal container
that is covered with a tea towel to keep out intruders. Let stand for
3 to 5 days, stirring twice a day, until pungently fragrant. If the
odor becomes unpleasantly sour, you have let it get too warm and will
have to start over.

TO STORE THE SOUR: Stor, undisturbed, in the refrigerator in an
airtight nonmetalic container. It will keep much longer than anyone
would think. We have used ours after as much as 2 months of total
neglect, and found it sleepy, but alive. A black, watery liquid will
usually collect on top. Don't panic, it is merely oxidation, like
potatoes turning dark after they are cut. Just stir the black stuff
back into the brew.

If your sour has been dormant in the refrigerator and you are in
doubt as to whether to use it, bring it to room temperature and
double its volume with rye flour and water. Allow it to sit out at
room temperature, stirring twice daily, until it bubbles up. Stir,
take a whiff-if the fragrance pleases you, it will certainly be good
for the bread.

TO USE THE SOUR: When you want to use the sour in the dough, let it
come to room temperature and give it a chance to bubble up, if it
will-allow the better part of a day. Replace what you remove with
fresh rye flour and water before refrigerating the sour again.For
example, if you take out 3/4 cup, mix in 3/4 cup of rye flour and 3/4
cup water, maintaining the pancake batter-like consistancy.

Recipe for Roberta's Sourdough Rye follows.

These 2 recipes came from Laurel's Bread Book typed up, used many
times and endorsed by Mary Riemerman
Submitted By MARY RIEMERMAN   On   04-19-95

