Title: Mountain-style Paella
Categories: Main dish, Poultry, Vegetables, Hot/spicy, Rice
Yield: 8 servings
1/2 c  Almonds, finely ground
1 1/2 tb Fresh rosemary, chopped
1 1/2 tb Fresh sage, chopped
2 ts Salt
1/2 ts Saffron threads, crushed
1/4 ts Red pepper flakes
2 c  Arborio rice or other short
-grained rice
6 c  Chicken broth, low salt
Lemon wedges
2 lg Red bell peppers
1/4 c  Olive oil
8    Chicken pieces, thigh & leg
-about 3 1/2 lb chicken
1 1/2 lb Pork sausage links, cut into
-1" pieces
1 lb Mushrooms, thinly sliced
3 lb Tomatoes, chopped (abt 7 cup
2 tb Garlic, minced
1 lb Green beans, trimmed, cut
-into 1" lenghts
Cut 1 red pepper lenght-wise into thin strips. Chop the other pepper
and reserve.  Heat the olive oil in a large skillet or paella pan
over med-hi heat.  Add the pepper strips and saute until softened,
about 6 minutes. Remove pepper strips to a bowl.

Season chicken pieces with salt & pepper, add to skillet and cook
until brown on all sides, about 12 minutes. Remove chicken and add
sausage pieces to skillet, saute until cooked, about 5 minutes.
Remove sausage and save with chicken pieces.

Pour off excess drippings (save about 6 Tbsp in skillet). Add
mushrooms to pan and saute for about 5 minutes. Add tomatoes, garlic,
and chopped red pepper and bring liquid to a boil.  Reduce heat and
simmer until liquid evaporates, about 30 minutes.

Add green beans and next 7 ingredients (the spices) to skillet, stir
to mix in.  Stir in rice, chicken & sausage pieces and 6 cups of hot
chicken broth. Bring to a boil, reduce heat to medium and simmer
uncovered until chicken and rice are cooked, about 30 minutes.  Add
more broth, water, or red wine if the mixture seems dry.  Let stand 5
minutes before serving.

Top servings with pepper strips and garnish with lemon wedges.

Note: The recipe says 8 servings, but they are large servings.

From: Bon Appetit, May 1995 "The Mediterranean, A Delicious Voyage of
Discovery"  (Valencia) Typed by: Bob 8-{)
Submitted By ROBERT WHITE   On   04-22-95

