Title: Mushroom Ravioli with Tomato-Basil Cream Sauce
Categories: Appetizers, Vegetables, Salsa/sauce
Yield: 8 servings
MMMMM----------------------MUSHROOM RAVIOLI---------------------------
2 tb Sesame oil
2    Shallots; finely minced
2 lg Cloves garlic; finely minced
1/4 c  Wine
1/2 c  Parmesan; fresh grated
Egg Pasta dough
2 c  Portabella mushrooms; minced
-fairly fine
2 c  Crimini or Oyster mushrooms;
-minced fairly fine -=OR=-
4 c  Mushrooms; minced, any combo
-of wild or other shrooms
2 tb Basil; fresh chopped, divide
MMMMM------------------TOMATO-BASIL CREAM SAUCE-----------------------
2 tb Basil; fresh chopped
1/2 c  Olive oil
1/4 c  Orange juice
1/4 c  Heavy cream
1/4 c  Sundried tomatoes; soaked in
-hot water or wine at least
-2 hours before use or over-
-night in fridge.
1 c  Tomato concasse *
"I made this dish as an appetizer. It was my first time making
ravioli and I learned the hard way not to use wonton wrappers.
They're too thin. Use any egg pasta dough rolled out to 1/4" or less
but not too thin as they could break in cooking and you'll lose your
stuffing to the water... That's what happened to me! <sigh>"

MUSHROOM RAVIOLI: Saute shallots until clear, add garlic, mushrooms
and 1 tb basil. Saute until mushrooms lose most of their water and
keep stirring to evaporate juices... about 5 minutes total. When
mushrooms are about 1/2 the volume they were add wine and cook down
another few minutes. Remove from pan and allow to cool. Before using,
squeeze out excess moisture which can be added to sauce. Toss with
parmesan and the remaining fresh basil. Use a plain egg pasta dough
rolled out to 1/4" or less. Not too thin though. Make rather large
ravioli to serve as appetizer, making 2 to a plate. Boil immediately
for 4-5 minutes or allow to dry before using.

TIP: Allow mushroom mixture to cool completely before stuffing
ravioli.

TOMATO-BASIL CREAM SAUCE:

* Tomato Concasse is peeled, seeded and chopped tomatoes. However,
you can use the scooped out centers left over from my Avocado &
Mozzarella Cheese Stuffed Tomatoes.

In a saucepan, heat tomato concasse with reconstituted sundried
tomatoes. Cook until a thick liquid is formed. Process in food
processor or blender and strain. Return to food processor and add
oil, orange juice, basil and then cream until desired color is
reached. Not too much cream, of course. Serve immediately with
ravioli above.

Source: .\\ichele Cooks! 1994
Submitted By LAWRENCE KELLIE   On   03-17-95

