Title: Oven-baked Asparagus with Green Sauce
Categories: Vegetables, Salsa/sauce, Appetizers
Yield: 8 servings
2 tb Olive oil
Salt
2 lb Medium asparagus - trimmed
-and peeled*
MMMMM------------------------GREEN SAUCE-----------------------------
2 tb Small (nonpariel) capers -
-drained
1 ea Clove garlic - peeled
1 ts Dijon mustard
1/2 ts Salt
1/2 ts Freshly ground black pepper
3/4 c  Olive oil
2 c  Loosely packed flat leaf
-parsley leaves
2 c  Loosley packed fresh basi
-leaves
3 tb Fresh lemon juice - strained
1 ea Egg - at room temperature
5 ea Oil-packed anchovy fillets
* Pencil-thin asparagus may look properly infantile (a necessary
quality in a spring vegetable), but medium asparagus are usually more
affordable and have more flavor.  Bending the stalks until they snap
and then discarding the bottoms is wasteful.  Instead, cut off the
woody ends and then, using a swivel-bladed vegetable peeler, pare the
stalks about halfway up, or to where the peel becomes tender.

GREEN SAUCE: In a food processor combine all ingredients except the
olive oil; process until smooth. With the machine running, slowly add
the oil through the feed tube; the sauce will thicken.  Adjust the
seasoning. (The sauce can be prepared up to 3 days ahead. Cover and
refrigerate, but return to room temperature before use.)

Makes about 1-3/4 cups.

ASPARAGUS: Position a rack in the upper third of the oven and preheat
the oven to 450F. On a jelly-roll pan toss the asparagus with the
olive oil. Set on the rack and bake, stirring once or twice, until
the asparagus is just tender and lightly browned, 12 to 15 minutes.
Arrange the asparagus, hot or warm, on individual serving plates.
Drizzle generously with green sauce and serve immediately.

Serves 8.

This dry-heat method of cooking asparagus concentrates and sweetens
the vegetable's subtle flavor, while the robust salsa verde adds a
pungent accent.

Serve as a sit-down first course with Roast Leg of Lamb with
Caramelized Shallots.

Source: Cooking for the Weekend

per serving:
Approx. Cook Time: Cholesterol per
Calories
grams per serving:
serving: Marks:

Submitted By ROBERT MILES   On   04-01-95

