Title: Pan-Roasted Rabbit With Fresh Herbs
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 servings
1 ea Rabbit (3 to 4 pounds)
MMMMM--------------------------MARINADE-------------------------------
5 ea Bay, leaves -- crumbled
3 tb Juniper, berries -- crushed
1/2 c  Oil, olive -- extra-virgin
Salt (to taste)
Pepper (to taste)
1 c  Wine, white -- dry
2 c  Stock, chicken -- dark **
8 ea Garlic, cloves -- peeled
1 tb Oil, olive -- extra-virgin
3/4 ts Arrowroot OR
3/4 ts Cornstarch
1 tb Water -- cold
1 1/2 tb Brandy
1/3 c  Brandy
1/4 c  Wine, red -- dry
2 tb Oil, olive -- extra-virgin
4 ea Garlic, cloves -- crushed
2 ea Thyme sprigs OR
1/2 ts Thyme -- dried
3 ea Savory, winter, sprigs OR
1/2 ts Savory -- dried
2 ea Rosemary sprigs OR
1/4 ts Rosemary -- dried
2 ea Marjoram sprigs OR
1/4 ts Marjoram -- dried
1 ts Oregano, sprigs OR
1/2 ts Oregano -- dried
MMMMM---------------------SERVE WITH RABBIT--------------------------
Beet Greens ***
Roast Beet Puree **
Spinach ***
** Recipe for this ingredient is elsewhere in this database.

*** Blanch 1 1/2 pounds of fresh spinach, stems removed, and reserved
greens from 4 beets. Drain, rinse under cold water and squeeze out
all of the liquid. Toss the greens in a skillet over medium-high beat
with 2 tablespoons of butter and until heated through. Season with
salt.

To Marinate: You can do this yourself, or you can ask your butcher to
cut up your rabbit as follows: forelegs left whole, hind legs cut
into 3 pieces each  (lower joint; thigh cut diagonally into 2
pieces), rib section cut into 3  pieces, loin cut into 3 pieces, neck
left whole.At least 2 days before serving, place the rabbit in a
shallow glass or enamel pan and add marinade ingredients. Turn rabbit
pieces over to coat.

Marinate, covered, in refrigerator, turning occasionally. Preheat you
oven to 325 F. Remove the rabbit from the marinade. In a heavy large
skillet, heat about 1/4 cup of olive oil over medium-high heat. Add
half of the rabbit pieces and sprinkle with salt and pepper. Saute,
turning pieces once, until golden brown, about 5 minutes.  Transfer
to oven-proof casserole.  Discard fat from skillet and add 1/2 cup of
white wine, scraping up all of the browned bits in the pan.  Boil for
2 minutes  and add the liquids out of the skillet to the casserole.
Repeat the procedure, browning the remaining rabbit, deglazing and
adding rabbit and liquid to the casserole. Bring the brown chicken
stock to a boil; skim, if necessary, and pour it into the casserole
(liquid should not quite cover meat). Place the casserole, partially
covered, in the lower third of the oven. After 50 minutes, check the
forelegs, racks and loins.  If they are tender, remove them.
Continue cooking until all of the remaining pieces are  tender, 1 to
1 1/2 hours total cooking time (timing can vary depending on size and
tenderness of the rabbit).Transfer to serving plates and keep warm.

Meanwhile, blanch the garlic in boiling salted water for 30 seconds;
drain. Blanch again for 30 seconds, drain.  Place in a small skillet
with  1 tablespoon of olive oil and saute over high heat for 1 minute.

Place the skillet in the oven until the garlic is golden, 25 to 30
minutes. Cut each clove into 3 or 4 pieces; set aside. When the
rabbit is tender, place the skillet with cooking liquid over high
heat and boil until reduced by half, about 15 minutes.  Skim all of
the fat from the surface. In a small cup, stir together the arrowroot
and water; whisk the mixture into the reduced cooking liquid and
return to a boil. Add brandy, adjust seasonings with salt and pepper,
and skim again if necessary. Stir in the reserved garlic pieces, and
pour over the rabbit.

Serve your rabbit with Roast Beet Puree, spinach and beet greens.

Source:  New York's Master Chefs, Bon Appetit Magazine Written by
Richard Sax, Photographs by Nancy McFarland The Knapp Press, Los
Angeles, 1985 Chef: Leslie Revsin, One Fifth Avenue Restaurant, New
York

: Chef: Leslie Revsin, One Fifth Avenue Restaurant, New
Rabbit
Recipe By
York New York

Date: 04-12-95 (11) Cooking
From: Robert Miles

