Title: Poppy Seeds
Categories: Information, Nuts/grains
Yield: 1 servings
No Ingredients Found
While much has been written about the red poppies in Flander's Fields
signifying the fallen warriors from World War 1, red poppies have
been a symbol for dead warriors in many countries since ancient
times. This red poppy is actually "papaver dubium", whereas the white
or mauve flowered poppy seed poppy is "papaver somniferum", also
known as the opium or oil poppy.  Botanically speaking, somniferum
means 'sleep bearing',

referring to the plant's narcotic qualities.  As early as 400 BC,
Hippocrates, the father of medicine, reported the medicinal benefits
of opium wine.  In 1400 BC, poppy plants were harvested for opium by
the women of Crete. Around 600 AD the narcotic qualities of poppy
were realized in Arabia. In the following centuries Islamic traders
and missionaries spread the cultivation of the opium poppy to Persia,
India, China an dSoutheast Asia.  Initially, opium was used in
moderation to bring relief to sufferers of cholera, cysentery and
malaria, with Greek physicians using the drug for years to combat
dysentery.  Eventually, opium's habit forming, body destroying
narcotic effects were realized in India and then in China as the drug
fell into corrupt hands. In the Orient, opium was eaten until opium
smoking was introduced in the 17th century, spreading like the plague
and leaving behind it a profusion of addicts. The"Opium Wats" of 1840
and 1855 began when the Chinese government attempted to keep British
traders from smuggling opium into China. China lost in both wars,
having tried ineffctively to prevent the legalization of the opium
trade. Opium and poppy seeds come from the same poppy plant: poppy
seed, however, has a very innocent, tame history compared to the wars
waged over opium. Opium is derived from the dried milky juice
obtained from cuts made in the nearly ripe poppy pods, 10-20 days
after flowering. Poppy seeds are formed after the pod has lost its
opium yielding capabilities. Although the history of poppy seed lacks
the notoriety of opium, the beauty of the poppy plant was observed by
the Greek poet, Homer, about 800 BC. In additions, in 2000BC, the
Egyptians cultivated poppy not only as a medicinal plant but also to
produce an edible oil by crushing the seeds.  In the first century,
Pliny described a tasty mixture of parched poppy seeds and honey; in
the second century, Galen, a Greek physician, suggested mixing poppy
seeds with flour to prepare a flavourful bread.  The use of poppy
seeds in bread spread to Europe during the Middle Ages with Old
German 'herbals' referring to it as a pleasing bread spice an calling
it Oelsamen, or oil seed, because of its vegetable oil content.
Today, poppy seed production can be found in the most temperate
regions of the world with some of the best quality, slate blue seeds
coming from the Netherlands. The poppy plant is a stiff, erect annual
with bluish=green stems growing 3-6 feet. Propogation is by seed with
approximately 900,000 seeds making 1 pound. Harevest begins when the
pods turn yellowish brown and the plants are picked by machines. The
plants are then either stacked high in tepee shaped piles to dry or
the poppy heads are cut off and spread out to dry. The actual poppy
seed colour ranges from white to blue to black and although it
appears round to the eye it is actually kidney shaped. Poppy seed is
available only in whole form and is usually best when toasted which
brings out a nutty flavour and nice crunchy texture.  Poppy seed oil
is pale yellow and tasteless, used mainly as a salad oil. Poppy seed
is used in sweet desserts as well as main dishes.  The Viennese make
a deliciously rich poppy seed strudel; Indian cooks sprinkle the
seeds over their chicken and shrimp curries; Slavic and Hungarian
bakers produce baked goods crammed with poppy seed, crushing and
sweetening the seed prior to filling coffee cakes and pastries.  For
an interesting melted topping for noodles, rice, vegetables, or
broiled fish, make a mixture of poppy seed and butter.  Poppy seed is
also delicious used in muffins, bread sticks, cookies, coleslaw,
meat/fish sauces, Welsh rarebit, scrambled eggs and as a garnish for
veggies. Origin: Appeal magazine, Spring 1995 issue. Shared by:
Sharon Stevens, Mar/95.

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   03-22-95

