Title: Pork Rolls
Categories: Medieval, Meats, Appetizers, Main dish
Yield: 6 servings  Tartlettes.  Take pork ysode and grynde it small with safronn, medle
it with ayren and raisons of coraunce, and powdor fort, and salt; and
make a foile of dowhg and close the fars thereinne.  Cast the
tartlettes in a pan with faire water boilyng and salt, take of the
clene flesh without ayren, and boile it in gode broth.  Cast thereto
powdour-douce and salt and messe the tartletes in disches, and helde
the sewe theronne.

700 g/1 1/2 lb cooked pork without skin or bone 1/2 teaspoon salt 40
g/1 1/2 oz currants Powder fort mixture made with 1/3 teaspoon ground
cumin; 1/8 teaspoon each ground black pepper and ground ginger 1 egg,
separated, and 1 egg white 6-8 sheets filo or strudel pastry For
sauce: 575 ml/1 pint/2 1/2 cups strong chicken stock Powder douce
mixture made with 1/8 teaspoon ground coriander; pinch each of ground
cinnamon and brown sugar or to taste

Mince the pork and set 225 g/8 oz aside.  Put the remaining 450 g/1
lb in a bowl and add the salt, currants and powder fort mixture. Beat
the egg yolk and use it to bind the mixture.

Stack the pastry sheets in a pile, making sure that they separate
easily. They are usually 45-50 cm/18-20 inches long.  Beat the egg
whites and use to brush the top sheet of pastry lightly.  Starting
from one short side, cut it into long strips 7.5 cm/3 inches wide.
Place a small teaspoon of the pork mixture on the end of one strip
and roll the pastry up like a Swiss roll.  Press the ends to seal in
the meat.

Repeat this procedure, using the other top sheet strips, then brush
the next sheet and continue rolling up the mini-rolls until all the
mixture is used.

Drop the rolls, a few at a time, into gently boiling salted water and
cook for 5-7 minutes; then drain on kitchen paper.  Alternatively,
you can place the rolls side by side on a baking sheet, brush them
with egg white and bake them in a pre-heated oven at 200C/400F/Gas
Mark 6 for 10-12 minutes; then serve them as snacks, without sauce.
Boiled rolls, which have a slightly flabby texture, need sauce; they
are best served as a starter or main course.

To make the sauce, heat the stock and add the reserved meat and powder
douce mixture.  Simmer for several minutes to heat the meat through.
Serve over the boiled rolls, re-heated if necessary.

(Makes 6 main servings or 24 snacks)
from The Medieval Cookbook by Maggie Black Chapter 5, "Of Manners
and Meals" posted by Tiffany Hall-Graham From: Tiffany Hall-Graham
Date: 05-26-94
Submitted By DALE SHIPP   On   04-20-95

