Title: Puff Pastry - Master Chefs
Categories: Basics, Pastry, Masterchefs, New york
Yield: 1 recipe
1 lb Butter, unsalted, chilled,
-- cut into pieces
4 c  Flour, all purpose
1 1/2 ts Salt
1 c  Water, cold
This recipe produces a "double batch" for most recipes in the
database.  Cut all of the ingredients in half if you're only doing one
recipe.

Set aside about 1/2 cup of flour on a work surface.

Place the remaining flour with the salt in a mixing bowl or
mixer.

Add 1/4 c (1/2 stick) of the butter and cut the mixture together
until crumbly.

Add just enough cold water so mixture can be gathered together
in a ball.

Cut a cross into the top of the ball, and place it in a covered
bowl and chill for about 30 minutes.

Place the remaining butter on the work surface with the reserved
flour.  Toss the butter to coat.

Use the heel of your hand to work the flour into the butter then
place the butter-flour mixture on a sheet of waxed paper, cover with
a second sheet and press the mixture into a flat square.

Refrigerate just until the butter-flour mixture is approximately
the same consistency as refrigerated dough.

Roll the dough into a cloverleaf shape, with 4 "leaves" extending
diagonally from the center.  Place the butter flour mixture in the
center, then fold each "leaf" over, forming a neat, square package
with the leaves slightly overlapping.

Roll the dough on a lightly floured surface into a large
rectangle with the short end toward you.

Fold into thirds as you would a letter.  Rotate the dough 1/4
turn so that the open side is at the right (this is called a single
turn).

Repeat rolling the dough into a large rectangle, folding into
thirds and rotating 1/4 turn.

Wrap dough and chill 1 hour or longer.

Give the dough 2 more sets of 2 single turns, always beginning
and ending with the open side at the right.

Refrigerate 1 hour or longer between each set of 2 turns.

After final set of turns (6 single turns in all), wrap and
refrigerate dough again for at least 1 hour.

Source:  New York's Master Chefs, Bon Appetit Magazine
:  Written by Richard Sax, Photographs by Nancy McFarland
:  The Knapp Press, Los Angeles, 1985

Chef:  Michel Fitoussi, 24 Fifth Avenue, New York

