Title: Risotto with Butternut Squash, Greens, Tomato
Categories: Vegetarian, Main dish, Low cal/fat
Yield: 6 servings
MMMMM----------------EAT MORE, WEIGH LESS; ORNISH---------------------
-juices reserved
1/2 ts Nutmeg (optional)
1 ts Orange zest;grated (opt)
3 c  Swiss chard; cut into 1/2"
-strips
Salt and pepper
7 c  Vegetable stock
2 c  Onion, yellow; diced
1 1/2 c  Butternut squash; cut into
-1/2-inch cubes
2 c  Arborio rice
3/4 c  Plum tomatoes, canned;
-drained, cut in 1/2" dice,
Bring 1 cup stock to a simmer in a large saute pan. Add the onions and
simmer for 10 to 15 minutes, or until they are tender and translucent.

While the onions are cooking, bring the restof the stock to boil in
large saucepan.Drop the butternut squash into the boilinig stock,
reduce the heat, and simmer until the squash is cooked but still
firm. Remove the squash with a slotted spoon and set aside. Keep the
stock at a simmer.

Add the rice to the cooked onions and cook 3 to 5 minutes, until the
rice is opaque. Ladle 1 cup of the simmering stock into the rice and
stiruntil the stock is absorbed. Add another cup of stock and cook
over low heat, stirring occasionaly. Repeat the process with 1 more
cup of stock; the rice wil absorb the stock more slowly now but you
can't rush it. When the rice is almost al dente, stir in the cooked
squash and the tomatoes, the optional nutmeg and orange zest, and
cook for a few minutes. Add 1 1/2 cups more simmering stock and cook
again until nearly absorbed, then add the greens and stir until they
are wilted. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Serve at once. The
misture should be a little soupy in the bowl and the rice should be
al dente, soft on the outside and firm in the center.

Serving size: 2 cups 308 cal .8 g fat 0 mg chol 212.2 mg sod w/o added
salt, 2% of calories from fat (not a tyop, really two per cent!)

Posted on GEnie Food & Wine RT Nov 04, 1993 by DEEANNE

From the recipe files of Sylvia Steiger, GEnie THE.STEIGERS, CI$
71511,2253, Internet sylvia.steiger@lunatic.com, moderator of GT
Cookbook and PlanoNet Lowfat & Luscious echoes
Submitted By SYLVIA STEIGER   On   03-24-95

