Title: Roast Boar and Black Bean Chili *G*
Categories: Chili, Tex/mexican, Main dish, Meats, Game
Yield: 6 servings
3    Cloves garlic, minced
1    Jalapeno minced
1 c  Cooked, smoked ham
2 c  Beef broth
1    Bay leaf
1 ts Chpd oregano
1 ts Red wine vinegar
2 tb Dark rum
4    Scallions, thinly sliced
2    Eggs, hard cooked, sieved
1/4 c  Bacon drippings
2    Garlic cloves, crushed
3 tb Chili powder
1/8 ts Ground cumin seeds
1/4 ts Black pepper
4 lb Saddle of wild boar
1 lb Black turtle beans
2 tb Olive oil
1/2 c  Diced salt pork
2    Onions, chpd
In a med bowl, combine the bacon drippings with the crushed garlic,
two tablespoons of the chili powder, the cumin, and freshly ground
pepper. Spread over the wild boar and let stand while preparing the
beans. In a lg pot, cover the beans with cold water.  Heat to boiling
and boil for two minutes.  Turn off the heat and let stand one hour.
Drain. Wipe out the pot and return beans, cover with cold water and
heat to boiling. Reduce heat and simmer for 30 minutes. Drain.
Preheat the oven to 325 degrees. Cook the salt pork in boiling water
for five minutes. Drain and pat dry. Heat the oil in a heavy, deep
casserole. Stir in the salt pork and cook over med heat until golden,
about 3 min. Stir in the onion, minced garlic, and Jalapeno pepper.
Cook 1 minute. Stir in the ham and cook two more minutes. Stir the
remaining chili powder into the onion mixture. Add the beans, broth,
bay leaf, oregano, vinegar and rum. Mix well. Place the saddle of
boar on top of the beans, cover and place in the middle of the oven.
Cook for 1 1/2 to 2 hours or until internal meat thermometer reads
170 degrees. Turn the meat twice and stir the beans. Add more broth
if dry. Remove the meat and allow it to stand, covered, for 10 to 15
minutes. Meanwhile, skim the fat from the chili. Cut the meat from
the bone and into thin slices. Layer it over the beans. If desired,
stew, covered, to tenderize the meat. Serve with hot rice and a
sprinkling of scallions and sieved eggs.

