Title: Seafood Tarragon Ravioli with Tomato-Cream Sauce - Cc
Categories: Fish, Main dish, Pasta
Yield: 6 servings
MMMMM-------------------TARRAGON RAVIOLI DOUGH------------------------
1/4 c  Water
2 lg Eggs
2 tb Olive oil
1/2 c  Fresh tarragon leaves
2 1/2    To 2 1/2 C unsifted all
-purpose flour
3/4 ts Salt
MMMMM----------------------SEAFOOD FILLING---------------------------
3/4 ts Ground white pepper
1/4 c  Heavy cream
Tomato-Cream Sauce
-(recipe follows)
1 tb Vegetable oil
Chopped fresh chives (opt.)
1/2 lb Sea scallops
1/2 lb Medium size shrimp
-(unshelled)
1 lg Egg white
1/4 c  Fresh white-bread
1 ts Finely grated lemon rind
1/2 ts Salt
MAKES 12 APPETIZER OR 6 MAIN-DISH SERVINGS

1. Prepare Tarragon Ravioli Dough: In food processor with chopping
blade, process tarragon until coarsely chopped. Add 2 C flour and the
salt; process to mix. In 1-Cup measuring cup, beat water, eggs, and
oil until well mixed. With food-processor blade whirling, add egg
mixture through the feed tube. The mixture should form a dough that
balls up; if it's too sticky, add more flour. On lightly floured
surface, knead dough a few minutes or just until smooth. Wrap with
plastic wrap; let dough stand 1 flour.

2. Meanwhile, prepare Seafood Filling: Remove tough white muscle, if
present, from side of each scallop and discard. Shell and devein
shrimp, reserving shells for the sauce. Rinse and dry seafood. Cut
into small chunks. in food processor with chopping blade, process
seafood, egg white, bread crumbs, lemon rind, salt, and white pepper
until mixture forms a paste. With foodprocessor blade whirling, pour
heavy cream through the feed tube. Transfer filling to small bowl and
refrigerate, covered, until ready to use.

3. Cut Ravioli dough into 4 pieces. Dust pieces with flour; cover with
plastic wrap to keep them moist. Flatten one piece into a 4-inch
square, about 1/4 inch thick. Set the smooth roller of a pasta
machine at the widest opening. Dust the square with flour and feed it
through the rollers. Fold dough crosswise into thirds; press together
and reshape to a 4-inch square. Insert an open end of the square
through the rollers again. Repeat rolling and folding 8 more times,
dusting with flour when necessary. After the last rolling, the dough
should be a smooth and elastic 9 by 4-inch rectangle.

4. Turn the dial one notch thinner and feed the dough through the
rollers, dusting it with flour, if necessary, to prevent it from
sticking. Continue to feed the dough through the rollers, turning the
dial one notch thinner each time, until the last or next to the last
setting is reached and the dough is as thin and as long as
possible-about 34 inches long, 4 1/4 inches wide, and 1/16 inch
thick. If the dough is not long enough, run it thorough the last
setting again.

5. To make ravioli, place tarragon dough on lightly floured board or
surface. Cut dough into 4 1/4-inch squares. Mound 4 slightly rounded
teaspoonfuls of seafood filling 2 inches apart from each other on one
square, leaving about 1 inch from the edges. Brush the dough around
the filling with some water; cover the filling with another square,
pressing gently around the mounds to expel any air pockets and to
seal dough. With fluted pastry wheel or sharp knife, cut the square
to form 4 ravioli. Place the filled ravioli in one layer on a
floured, cloth-lined tray or jelly-roll pan. Continue filling,
covering, and cutting squares of dough to make more ravioli. Repeat
with remaining 3 pieces of dough. Let the ravioli dry, uncovered,
turning occasionally, for up to 1 flour at room temperature, or
refrigerate overnight, covered with a cloth towel and then plastic
wrap.

6. Meanwhile, prepare Tomato-Cream Sauce (recipe follows). To cook
ravioli, bring 3 or 4 inches water to boiling in 5-quart kettle. Add
oil and then a quarter of the ravioli, and cook 2 minutes (longer if
ravioli were refrigerated) or until pasta is just tender. With
slotted spoon, remove ravioli, drain well, and place on tray. Repeat
with remaining ravioli. For each serving, spoon some of the sauce
onto a plate and arrange ravioli on top. Garnish with chives, if
desired.

Tomato-Cream Sauce: In heavy 3 quart saucepan, melt 1/2 C (1 stick)
unsalted butter over medium heat. Add 1 stalk celery, chopped; 1 small
onion, chopped; 1 clove garlic, chopped; 1 teaspoon fresh tarragon
leaves; 1 bay leaf; and reserved shrimp shells. Saute 5 minutes. Add
1/2 lb ripe plum tomatoes, coarsely chopped; saute 5 minutes. Stir in
1 T all-purpose flour and 1/2 C dry white wine. Heat to boiling,
stirring constantly, Add 1 3/4 C heavy cream; heat to boiling.
Partially cover pan, and simmer mixture 15 minutes, stirring
occasionally. Strain mixture through a large sieve into another
saucepan, pressing vegetable solids with back of spoon to extract
pulp. Add 1/2 t salt and ground red pepper to taste to sauce; keep
warm. Sauce may be made a day ahead; cool and refrigerate.

Makes 12 appetizer servings or 6 main dish servings.

Country Cooking/Summer/94  Scanned & fixed by Di and Gary
Submitted By LAWRENCE KELLIE   On   03-17-95

