Title: Settler's Apple Pie
Categories: Pie/tart, Fruit, Settler's
Yield: 1 servings
No Ingredients Found
Every one knows how to make a common apple pie or pudding.  But in
case there may be a few among my emigrant friends, who have been
unused even to this simple pprocess in cooking, I will say: Peel and
core your apples; good acid cooking apples are better than sweet
ones; drop them into a pan of clean water as you pare them; in the
pie dish, place a tea-cup, turned bottom upwards; put in a large
tablespoonful of sugar, and two or three cloves, or a bit of lemon
peel, if you have these things at hand. Fill your dish with the cored
apples and a very small quantity of water, a large tablespoonful will
suffice.  Add two or three more cloves, and more sugar; cover with
your pastry, rolled thin, finely crimp the edge, and scallop with
your finger and the edge of the knife. A few delicate leaves, cut and
marked to resemble apple leaves, placed in the centre, give a pretty
look to the dish.  But this is a mere matter of taste. If you have
any cause to think that the fruit is not quite soft, when the crust
is baked, set the dish on the top of one of your sove griddles, and
let it simmer a while. Some persons stew the apples first, season and
put them into the dish, and when cool, cover and bake, but I think
the apples never taste so well as when baked in the old way.

The reason for inserting a cup in the pie is this:  the juice and
sugar draws under the cup, and is thus kept from boiling out:  paring
the apples into the dish of water preserves them from turning brown
or black, and the moisture they imbibe renders no other water
necessary, or very little. The Canadians season their pies with
nutmeg and allspice, making them sickly tasted; they stew the apples
till they are an insipid pulp, and sweeten them till the fine acid is
destroyed.   A good, juicy, fine-flavoured apple-pie is a rare dish
to meet with in hotels and among the Old Canadian and Yankee
settlers. Origin: The Canadian Settler's Guide, written in 1855.
Shared by:  Sharon Stevens.

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   03-28-95

