Title: Settler's Mrs. Traill's Bread
Categories: Breads, Settler's
Yield: 1 servings
No Ingredients Found
Wash and pare half a pail of potatoes, taking care to remove all dark
specks; throw them into a vesel fo clean water as you pare them, as
they are apt to acquire a brownish colour, which spils the white and
delicate appearance of the bread.  Boil the potatoes till reduced to
a pulp, bruising in any lumps smooth with a wooden beetle or pounder.
It will then have the consistency of thick gruel.  When cool enough
to bear your hand in it, stir in as much flour as will make the
mixture the tickness of thick batter; add a good handful of salt, and
two cupfuls of your hop barm or any good rising that you may have.  A
deep, red earthen pot, or a wooden pail, will be a good vessel to
contain your sponge.  It is a wise precaution to stand your vessel in
a pan, as it is apt to flow over. If set to rise over-night, it will
be risen time enough to work up in the morning early. In summer we
seldom make this potato bread, on account of the potatoes then not
being so fit for the purpose, for, while young, they will not boil
down so smoothly.  But from the month of August till May, it may be
made with great advantage.  The quantity of sponge, above, will raise
two large milk dishes of flour, or about twenty pounds of flour. If
you have a large kneading trough, you can mix the whole at once, and
knead it well and thoroughly.  But if your trough be too small for
convenience, divide your sponge, and make two masses of dough,
working it very stiff on your board, scorring to top with a knife,
and cover it up by the fire with a clean cloth; or you may make only
half the quantity, using, of course, less potaotes and water. In
about two hours, or mabye longer, you will have a light dough, like a
honeycomb, to make into loaves. When bake, take your bread out of the
pan, wet the crust of your loaves over with clean water or milk, and
wrap them in a clean cloth, setting them up on one side against a
shelf till cold. the plan keeps the bread from becoming hard and dry.
For lightnes, sweetness and economy, this is the best bread I know,
resembling really good baker's bread in texture and look.  I
cordially recommend it to the attentions of the Canadian housewife.
Origin: The Canadian Settler's Guide, written in 1855. Shared by:
Sharon Stevens Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   03-28-95

