Title: Split-Leaf Cabbage Rolls (Lebanese)
Categories: Meats, Vegetables
Yield: 1 servings
Allspice
Garlic powder
2    To 3 cans tomato sauce
1    To 2 cans tomato paste
2 ts Dried mint leaves --
Crushed
1 lg Head Cabbage
1 1/2    To 2 lbs ground beef
White rice -- uncooked
Lots of slivered garlic
Pieces -- (about 1 whole
Bulb)
In a bowl combine about 2 lbs room temperature ground beef. Add
enough raw white rice so it looks speckled-- don't add too much
because it puffs up and you'll end up with rice and hambuger instead
of hamburger and rice (it happened to me once). Sprinkle a generous
amount of allspice and garlic powder. Add salt and pepper. Mix with
hands. If it isn't holding together add a small can of tomato sauce
and mix in thoroughly. (you can add the tomato sauce even if it is
holding together)

Steam or microwave the head of cabbage to loosen the leaves. You may
have to do this more than once as you work your way through the
leaves.

In a large non-stick pot (I use a 4-quart and sometimes it is not big
enough, depending on how big the cabbage head is) place outer leaves
that are unusable on the bottom covering it. (this keeps the rolls
from sticking to the bottom even in a non-stick pan)

As you remove the leaves cut the leaves in half cutting out the center
tough part. (I find it easier to do all the leaves first and just
stack them--don't throw the tough parts away yet you may need them to
line the bottom of another pot if you don't have any unusable outer
leaves left) Put some of the meat mixture in the center of the leaf,
roll one side of the leaf, then fold the ends in and finish rolling
the leaf. Place in the pan fold side down. When you finish the first
layer. Spread some tomato paste on the rolls. Toss 4-6 garlic slivers
around the layer. Repeat making layers laying the cabbage rolls one
direction on one layer and the other direction on the next
layer--Criss-cross fashion. If you fill the pot you will have to
start on another pot. Stop at least 1-inch from the top of the pot.
When you finish the top layer spread the tomato paste being very
generous. Sprinkle the crushed mint over the top. Fill the pan with
water to cover all. Place an inverted plate over the top and push
down. (this step is very important it releases the gas). Leave the
plate on top, cover and simmer until done. (It will take a least a
couple hours--they are done when the rice is cooked)

Warm 1 to 2 cans tomato sauce with a pinch of sugar. Pass with the
cabbage rolls, for spooning over cabbage rolls after sliced open.

These are delicious but do take a long time to prepare, but believe
me it is well worth the effort! Leftovers can be frozen and rewarmed
in the microwave.

11/15/94
Typed for you by Marjorie Scofield

:
Recipe By

Date: 03-01-95 (67) Recipes
From: Marjorie Scofield

