Title: Tea and Cassia Bark Smoked Chicken
Categories: Poultry, Chinese, Masterchefs
Yield: 4 servings
1/4 c  Leaves, tea, black, lichee
1/3 c  Sugar, brown, packed
1/3 c  Rice, raw
3 ea Star anise, whole
1/8 c  Bark, cassia
7 sl Peel, orange **
1 1/2 ts Oil, sesame
4 lb Chicken, fresh killed
2 1/2 tb Salt, kosher
2 tb Peppercorns, Szechuan,
1/2 ts Ginger, minced
2 ts Zest, orange, minced
2 md Scallions, 3" lengths
4 sl Ginger, 1/8" thick
MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
1/8 ts Peppercorns, Szechuan,
3 ea Garlic, cloves, minced
1 x  Ma-La Cucumber Fans ***
1/2 lb Onion, red, firm
6 1/2 tb Vinegar, rice, unseasoned
3 1/2 tb Sugar
1/8 ts Chili, red, flakes, dry
** Remove the peel from fresh oranges, slice into finger
lengths, and allow to dry on a counter until curled.

*** See recipe for Ma-La Cucumber Fans.

Remove the kidneys nestled to either side of the chicken tail
bone, then flush the chicken with cold water inside and out - then
pat dry.

Heat the salt and peppercorns in a dry skillet over a medium-low
heat, stirring constantly, until salt turns off white and peppercorns
are very fragrant, about 3 minutes.

Grind the hot mixture to a powder in a food processor or mortar,
then sieve to remove peppercorn husks.  Rub pepper-salt, ginger, and
orange peel over the outside and inside of the chicken. Put the
chicken, breast-side up in a heat-proof pie plate, and cover with
plastic film. Set aside for 24 hours at room temperature or up to 48
hours in the refrigerator.

Drain the marinating juices. Smash the scallion lengths and
ginger coins to release the juices, then array on top of the chicken
and in the cavity.  Steam for 30 minutes over medium-high heat.

Let the chicken rest in the steamer an additional 5 minutes
before removing the lid.  Drain the steaming juices.  (These can be
strained, chilled, and used to make sauces and season soups and
stir-frys.) Remove the scallion and ginger.

Line an old wok and lid with super heavy-duty tin foil. Combine
the tea, sugar, rice, peppercorns, anise, cassia bark and dried
orange peel, and scatter in the bottom of the lined wok.  Place the
chicken breast side up on the oiled smoking rack in the wok set above
spices.  Turn heat to high, wait until smoke sends up several thick
plumes, then cover wok and crimp foil shut to contain the smoke.

Smoke the chicken over medium-high heat, for 12 minutes, then
turn off the heat and let the chicken rest in the sealed wok for 7
minutes.

Remove the bird, brush with sesame oil, then chop into pieces
with a thick-bladed cleaver designed to cut through bones.  Garnish
the smoked chicken with Hunan Red Onion Pickles.  Use Ma-La Cucumber
Fans as a side dish.

Garnish: ========

Remove the tips and the peels of your onions. Cut evenly into
rings 3/8-inch thick.  Separate the rings, removing any loose inner
membranes.

Combine the vinegar, 3 tablespoons of sugar, chili, peppercorns,
and garlic in a heavy, non-aluminum saucepan.  Stir over moderate
heat to dissolve sugar, then simmer for three minutes. Taste and
adjust if needed with remaining sugar to balance sweet, tart, and
spicy flavors.

Add onion rings, then toss with chopsticks until onion wilts and
liquid regains simmer, three to four minutes.  Scrape mixture into a
shallow bowl and refrigerate.

Before serving, remove any loose onion membranes and most of the
peppercorns.

Source: Great Chefs of San Francisco, Avon Books, 1984
Chef:   Barbara Tropp, China Moon, San Francisco, CA

