Title: Vincent Pascarella's Creamy Cheesecake w/ Sour Cream & Fr
Categories: Cake/cookie, Desserts, Cheese/eggs
Yield: 16 servings
2 ea Egg yolks
1/4 c  Heavy cream
TOPPING
3/4 c  Sour cream
1 pk Raspberries, 10 oz, thawed
2 ts Cornstarch
1 pk Peach slices, 10 oz, thawed
1/4 c  Sugar
1 ea Kiwi fruit, peeled, sliced
1 ea Peach, fresh, ripe, sliced
GARNISH
1/4 c  Raspberries, whole, fresh
Mint sprigs, fresh
CRUST
2 1/2 c  Graham cracker crumbs
1/2 c  Butter, melted
1/2 c  Sugar
FILLING
5 pk Cream cheese, 8 oz each
-at room temperture
1 3/4 c  Sugar
3 tb Flour
2 ts Lemon zest, grated
1 1/2 ts Orange zest, grated
1/4 ts Vanilla extract
5 ea Eggs, large
MAKE CRUST: Toss with fork, graham cracker crumbs with butter and
sugar until moistened in medium bowl. Pour into 10 inch springform
pan. Using fork, press mixture evenly over sides and bottom of pan.
Bake at 375 degF for 5 minutes or until golden brown. Cool on wire
rack. Raise oven temperture to 450 degF.

FILLING: In large bowl of electric mixer at high speed beat cream
cheese, sugar, lemon and orange zests and vanilla until blended. Beat
in eggs and yolks one at a time; continue beating until smooth,
scraping bowl occasionally.

Beat in cream.

Pour filling into prepared pan.

Bake 10 minutes.  Lower oven temperture to 250 degF.  Bake 1 hour
longer or until center is set but not firm.  Remove from oven and
cool on rack for 2 hours.

Spread sour cream evenly over top of cake to within one-half inch of
edge.

Refrigerate 3 hours or overnight.

FRUIT TOPPING:

Raspberry: Puree raspberries and syrup in food processor.  Pour
through sieve to seperate seeds; discard seeds.  In medium saucepan,
mix puree with cornstarch until blended.  Bring to a boil, stirring
constantly. Reduce heat and simmer 1 minute or until thickened and
clear red in color. Pour into a small bowl, cover and refrigerate
until cold.

Peach: In clean food processor puree peach slices and 1/4 cup of
sugar. Pour into a small bowl.

FINAL ASSEMBLY: Remove cake from pan and place on serving dish. Spoon
raspberry sauce over sour cream, covering half the top of the cake.
Spread peach puree on the other half.

Arrange kiwi and peach slices down center of the top of the cake.

Garnish with whole fresh raspberries and mint sprigs.

Source: Vincent Pascarella, Special Education teacher at Glenville
Elementary School, Greenwich, CT.  Cooking is his hobby.
Submitted By GRANT AMES   On   03-31-95

