Title: 100 YEAR OLD PATE
Categories: Appetizers, Poultry
Yield: 1 Servings
2 lb Chicken livers
1/2 lb Bacon cooked crisp and
- crumbled
1 c  Chicken stock (preferred) or
- bouillon
1 lg White or yellow onion cut
- into 8th's
2    Stalks celery with tops
- cut into sections
1/4    Bell pepper
1    Clove garlic peeled & sliced
1 ts Heaping thyme
1/4 ts Sage
1    Pinch rosemary
1    Small bay leaf
Crushed peppercorns to taste
Salt to taste (none with
- bouillon)
1/2 ts Dijon mustard
Dry white wine or for change
-try dry sherry
1/2 lb Sweet cream butter (adjust
- salt if salted butter is
- used)
UTENSILS: 2 qt. sauce pan Colander or large strainer measuring cups
and spoons food processor, mixer or blender (use your hands only if
slightly Masochistic) Pate molds or buttered 9" cake pan with release
or a bowl

PREPARATION: In sauce pan, combine livers, stock, spices, garlic,
celery, onion, pepper & salt. Add enough wine to just cover
ingredients and bring to boiling point. Reduce heat, cover, and
simmer for about 1/2 hour. When done, place contents in the colander.
Reserve the wine broth and allow it to stand and cool. Discard the
bayleaf from the contents in the colander and allow remainder to cool
for 1/2 hour.

Gently ladel off the wine broth until the liquid containing the
sediment equals 2/3 cup. Save the clear broth in case you need more.
Be sure to catch all the sediment because it is an important part of
the recipe.

In your food processor; combine the contents of the colander, sediment
broth, butter, mustard and 1/2 of the crumbled bacon. Process until
the mixture is a smooth, soupy puree. Fold in remaining bacon and
pour into final mold. If it is too thick to pour, you need to add
more broth. Allow pate to set in refrigerator for at least 24 hours.

Unmold, lightly sprinkle with cracked peppercorns and garnish with
sliced olives and parsley.

This recipe is an antique French farm recipe reported to be over 100
years old. It is a classic recipe with wonderful spices and subtle
flavors.

