Title: A BETTER POT ROAST
Categories: Meats, Mine
Yield: 8 Servings
1    First-cut brisket (5 lb)
-trimmed of all visible fat
Freshly ground black pepper
1/4 c  Corn oil
8    Onion(s), thickly sliced
-separated into rings
6    Carrots, peeled
-cut in chunks
3    Garlic clove(s), minced
2    Bay leaves
4 tb Tomato paste
Salt to taste
16 oz Can tomatoes, with juice
1 c  Dry red wine
Note: Make this a day ahead so you can skim off the fat. Preheat oven
to 375øF. Cover both sides of brisket with lots of pepper. Over a
medium flame, heat the oil in a heavy casserole or roasting dish and
brown the brisket on all sides. Take the brisket out of the pan and
set aside. Add the onions to the casserole and cook them over
medium-high heat. As you stir them, scrape up the brown bits from the
bottom of the casserole. cook the onions for about 15 minutes, or
until they are thoroughly browned. Add the carrots, garlic, and bay
leaves; stir for another 1-2 minutes. Take the casserole off the
burner and carefully put the brisket back into its nest of
vegetables. Coat the brisket on both sides with tomato paste.
Sprinkle more pepper, and a little salt, over the tomato paste. Pour
the tomatoes and red wine into the bottom of the casserole. Cover the
casserole tightly, first with a layer of foil and then with the lid.
Let the pot roast cook on the middle rack of the oven for 3« hours.
check the liquid level in the casserole frequently; if it gets too
low, add a little water or beef broth. When the meat is tender, take
it out of the oven. Keep the meat covered while you cool it to room
temperature. Then put it in the refrigerator overnight. The next day,
spoon off all the solidified fat you can. Discard the bay leaves.
Bring the meat back to room temperature and reheat it ÄÄ along with
its juices and the vegetables ÄÄ either on top of the stove or in the
oven. When it's hot, slice it on the diagonal and serve with the pan
juices and vegetables spooned over. Add salt at the table, if needed.

