Title: ABOUT BAGELS -- GENERAL DIRECTIONS 2 A
Categories: Breads
Yield: 1 Servings
Text
THE FOOD PROCESSOR

A food processor will knead dough ingredients very quickly and
easily. It will reduce the process to a few minutes, even cutting
down the time of the a bread machine. Our testers found the results
extremely reliable. One tester much preferred it to the bread machine
because he was in charge all the way and never had a failure. By
mixing and kneading in the food processor and allowing the dough to
rise in the microwave, bagels can be ready for boiling in under a
half hour. You can optionally use the microwave for the first rise
for dough that has been mixed in the bread machine, by hand or with
an electric mixer. Then work the flavoring ingredients into the dough
after the first rise as you would for dough made in the bread
machine. Either active dry yeast or fast-rising yeast can be used.

1. Mix 1/4 of the liquid to 110-115 degrees in the microwave and add
to the yeast and sugar in a small cup. Mix gently and let sit for 5
minutes. Pour remaining liquid in a cup and make it very cool, right
out of the refrigerator, or add an ice cube.

2. Put the metal cutting blade into the food processor bowl. Measure
flour and salt and put them into the processor bowl. Pulse tow or
three times, just enough to mix the flour and salt. Add any oil or
butter and pulse until it disappears, tow or three pulses.

NOTE: Most food processors can mix 3 1/4 to 3 1/2 cups of flour.
However, it's possible to mix a larger or double batch of dough. If
the machine balks, it will stop automatically. Let it cool down and
restart it. Or divide dough in half and continue processing each half
separately. When mixed, knead the two batches together.

3. Pour yeast mixture into flour through the feeding tube and pulse
for another 5 or 10 seconds until it forms a ball. Pulse a few more
times to knead. When dough appears to come away from sides, it is
ready.

4. Remove dough from the processor bowl and hand-knead to remove any
gases. Let it rest for about 5 minutes. If it's not elastic enough,
add a few more drops of water; if it's still too sticky, add a
sprinkle of flour until it is smooth, velvety and elastic. The first
rise can be done in a microwave oven in about 15 minutes or in a bowl
in a draft-free environment for about 1 hour. Microwave ovens vary in
wattage, so the rise period and settings may vary. You may have to
experiment.

To use a microwave oven, after the dough is kneaded, carefully remove
it and the metal blade from the processor bowl. Form dough into a
rectangle long enough to wrap once around the processor bowl. Grease
dough with oil or nonstick vegetable spray, but do not cover bowl.
(Be sure the bowl has no metal parts.) Place the bowl in the
microwave.

Method 1: Microwave on LOW (30%), or DEFROST (about 30%), for 1
minute. Let rest for 10 minutes. Repeat microwaving and resting 1 to
2 times, until the dough has doubled in size. Test with your fingers
until a dent remains. If the dough springs back and dough has not
doubled, microwave once more for a few minutes until a dent does
remain and dough appears doubled in size.

Method 2: Or, place dough in the processor bowl as instructed.
Position an 8-ounce microwave-safe cup filled with water in the back
corner of the microwave. cover the processor bowl lightly with a damp
tea towel or plastic wrap and place it in the microwave on LOW (30%),
or DEFROST (30%) setting. Heat for 3 minutes, rest for 3 minutes,
heat for 3 minutes and rest for 6 minutes, repeating the 3-minute
heat and the 6-minute rest once or twice if necessary, until dough
has doubled in bulk.

To allow dough to rise in a draft free environment, place dough in a
large bowl lightly oiled with vegetable oil. Turn dough so all
surfaces are greased. Cover with plastic wrap sprayed with nonstick
vegetable spray and let rise until doubled in bulk, about 1 to 2
hours.

Proceed to Step 2: Shape Bagels.

CONTINUED IN ABOUT BAGELS -- GENERAL DIRECTIONS 3 From: Homenet Cook

