Title: ABOUT BAGELS -- GENERAL DIRECTIONS 4 A
Categories: Breads
Yield: 1 Servings
Text
STEP 4: BOIL OR "KETTLE"

Fill a 4- to 6- quart soup pot with water 3 to 4 inches deep. Water
alone can be used, or add 2 tbs. malt syrup, honey or sugar.

Preheat the oven to 400F., so it's ready when you're through boiling
the bagels.

Drop bagels one at a time into the boiling water. Boil about 4 at a
time or only so many that they float freely and so not crowd; they
will expand further in the hot water. The bagel may sink to the
bottom for a few seconds, and then float to the surface. Simmer for
30 seconds to 1 minute on each side, turning with a slotted spatula.
Remove and put on a lightly greased rack or a lightly floured tea
towel for a few minutes to drain.

HINT: Put the top side of the bagel down into water first, and then
turn over.

When you remove them, the bagels will be top side up and slide off
your spatula for draining and adding toppings.

When cool enough to handle, proceed to Step 5: Glaze and Apply
Topping, or if you omit this step, proceed to Step 6: Bake.

STEP 5, OPTIONAL: GLAZE AND APPLY TOPPING

GLAZES: Brush tops with glaze either before placing them in the oven
or about 5 minutes into the baking and then again about 5 minutes
before the end of baking. I've tried all the glazes listed below on
the same bagels in one batch, using white flour bagels and whole
grain flour bagels. Despite claims in some cookbooks that different
glazes yield different shades and crustiness, I found no appreciable
difference in either color or texture of the crusts when applied to
bagels. You may have a different result.

Water Glaze: A spray or brushing with room-temperature tap water will
yield a subtle glaze similar to using the steam baking method
(described elsewhere in

directions). Try brushing some bagels at the beginning of the baking,
some 5 minutes after and some near the end, and compare the
differences.

Nonstick Vegetable Spray Glaze: an easy, quick, effective, low calorie
glaze is a spray of nonstick vegetable spray. It goes on more evenly
than using a brush, yet yields an even glaze. Spray before placing in
the oven and again about 5 minutes before baking time is completed.

Melted Butter or Margarine Glaze: This glaze produces the same effect
as vegetable oil. Watch the bagels carefully so they don't burn.

Egg Glaze #1: Mix together 1 egg white, 1 egg yolk or 1 whole egg
with 1 tbs. water, milk, or cream.

Egg Glaze #2: Lightly beat 1 egg white. You can brush it on the bagels
either before they are put into the oven or 5 minutes after baking
time has begun, and 5 minutes before the baking is finished.

Cornstarch Glaze: Dissolve 2 tbs. cornstarch in 1/4 cup cold water.
Bring 1 cup water to a boil and whisk the dissolved solution into the
boiling water until it thickens. This cornstarch mixture can be kept
in the refrigerator for several days. Brush it on the bagel tops at
the beginning of the baking and again as soon as you remove the
bagels from the oven for a very high shine.

CONTINUED IN ABOUT BAGELS -- GENERAL DIRECTIONS 4 B

The Best Bagels are made at home by Dona Z. Meilach

ISBN 1-55867-131-5

Carolyn Shaw April 1996 From: Homenet Cook

