Title: AFTERNOON TEA CAKES
Categories: Cakes
Yield: 12 Servings
3 tb Unsweetened cocoa powder
1 ts Baking soda
1 c  All-purpose flour
1/2 c  Hot water
1 ts Vanilla extract
3 tb Unsalted butter, melted
1/3 c  Shredded coconut
1 lg Egg
1/2 c  Sour cream
Glaze:
1 tb Unsalted butter
1 c  Sifted confectioner's sugar
2 tb Water
1/4 ts Ground cinnamon
1/2 oz Unsweetened chocolate
1 ts Vanilla extract
The light and moist cupcakes have a delicate cinnamon-scented
chocolate glaze that's spread over them while they are still warm.

1. Position a rack in the center of the oven and preheat to 375
degrees F. Line twelve 2 1/2-inch muffin cups with paper liners.

2. Place cocoa in a small bowl and stir in 1/2 cup very hot tap water
to dissolve.

3. In a large bowl combine the melted butter and sugar; beat with an
electric mixer until blended. Add the egg and beat until light, 1 to 2
minutes. Add the cocoa mixture and beat until smooth. In a small bowl
stir together the sour cream and baking soda. Stir this mixture into
the butter-sugar mixture. Add the flour and vanilla; beat quickly,
just until evenly blended. With a spoon stir in the coconut.

Spoon the batter into the muffin cups, dividing it evenly among them;
they will be about three-quarters full. Bake about 20 minutes, until
the tops spring back when lightly touched and a toothpick inserted in
the center comes out clean. Remove the tea cakes from the pan and
cool slightly on a rack while you prepare the glaze.

4. Spread about 2 teaspoons of the chocolate glaze on each of the
warm tea cakes and let cool thoroughly.

Chocolate Glaze:

Makes 1/2 cup

Drizzle this simple and tasty glaze over the afternoon tea cakes or
over any cake that's been frosted with seven-minute caramel frosting.

1. In a small saucepan combine the butter with 2 tablespoons water.
Place over low heat, add the chocolate, and stir until the chocolate
melts and the mixture thickens slightly; remove from the heat.

2. In a small bowl combine the confectioner's sugar and cinnamon;
stir in the chocolate mixture and the vanilla to make a smooth glaze.

From: Jim Fobel's Old-Fashioned Baking Book.

