Title: ALL-AMERICAN APPLE TURNOVERS
Categories: Pies, Desserts, Apples
Yield: 10 Servings
2 tb Unsalted butter
3 lg Apples (ab. 1-1//2 lbs);
-peeled,cored & cut in 1/4"
-dice ( 3cups)
1/2 c  Apple cider or unsweetened
-apple juice
2 tb Sugar
2 ts Fresh lemon juice
1 pn Salt
1/4 c  Unsweetened apple butter
2 tb Dried currants (optional)
1 ts Lemon zest; finely grated
1/4 ts Cinnamon (optional)
1 pn Ground cloves;(optional)
1 pn Ground allspice;(optional)
(Use favorite pastry) These turnovers are best with at least two
varieties of firm cooking apples, such as Granny Smith, Jonathan,
Winesap & Golden Delicious, for differences in texture and acidity.
Sweet spices optional.
1. Melt butter in a lg nonreactive skillet over mod. high heat. Add
2 c of diced apples & cook, stirring frequently, 'til they begin to
color, ab.5 min. Stir in cider, sugar, lemon ju & salt; reduce heat
to mod. & cook 'til the liquid is reduced & the apples appear almost
dry but still retain their shape, about 5 min. longer. Remove skillet
from heat & stir in apple butter, currants, lemon zest,  cinnamon,
cloves & allspice, along w remaining 1 c  of raw chopped apple.
Transfer apple mixture to a med. bowl & refrigerate, uncovered, till
cooled completely.
2. On a lightly floured work surface, roll out the pastry dough to an
18x20" rectangle, 1/16th inch thick. Using a 6" plate or bowl as a
guide, cut out eight, 6"rounds as close together as possible. Gather
and reroll the dough scraps, then cut out 2 additional rounds. 3.
Spoon the cooled apple filling on the lower

half of each of the rounds. Lightly moisten the edges of the rounds
with water and fold the dough over the filling to form semicircular
turnovers. Press down on the edges to seal, first with your fingers,
then with the tines of a fork. Using back of a small knife, press
into sealed edges at 1/2-inch intervals to create a scalloped effect.
Transfer turnovers to a heavy baking sheet & refrigerate at least 15
min. 4. Preheat oven to 425 degrees. Brush turnovers w egg wash.
Using a sharp knife, cut 2 small slits in top of each turnover to
vent steam. 5. Bake turnovers in mid. of oven for 10 min. Move them
to the upper rack & bake for 8-10 min.longer, or 'til pastry is a
deep golden brown and filling begins to bubble. Let cool on rack.
Makes 10.

