Title: ALMOND BISCOTTI
Categories: Desserts, Cookies
Yield: 30 Cookies
1 c  Sugar
1/2 c  Butter, sweet; melted
3 tb Brandy
1 ts Vanilla
1 ts Almond extract
1 c  Almonds, unsalted; chopped
3    Eggs
2 1/2 c  Flour
1/2 tb Baking powder
1/4 ts Salt
Preheat oven to 350~.  Mix sugar with butter, brandy, vanilla, almond
extract, nuts and eggs.  Mix well. Stir in flour, baking powder and
salt. Form into a long loaf (or loaves), place on a cookie sheet and
bake for 20-30 minutes or until firm and softly cakelike. Remove from
oven and let cool slightly. When cool enough to handle, slice into
1/2 inch diagonal slices and return to cookie sheet. Bake for 15-25
miutes, turning once, until both sides are brown-flecked and toasted.
Cool thoroughly and store in an airtight jar. Makes 2-3 dozen.
Variation 1 (Mandlebrot): increase sugar to 1-1/4 cups. Diced dried
apricots may by added. Variation 2: for a clasic anise-flavored
biscotto, substitute Pernod, Ouzo or Anisette for the brandy and omit
the almond extract. Several tablespoons of anise seeds may be added
for additional oomph. Variation 3 (Hazelnut biscotti): use hazelnuts
in place of almonds. A hazelnut liqueur may be used instead of
brandy.  Omit the almond extract. Variation 4 (Mediterranean
biscotti): use rosewater instead of brandy. Substitute unsalted
pistachio nuts for the almonds, and add 1/4 - 1/2 cup diced figs to
the dough. Variation 5 (Ginger-flavored biscotti): to the basic
dough, add 1 Tbsp powdered ginger, a generous dash of cloves and
cinnamon, 1 or 2 Tbsp of candied ginger and 1/4 cup raisins, if
desired.  Omit the almond extract. Variation 6 (Paximatha): this
Greek rusk dates back to the 5th century, virtually unchanged.
Substiture 1/2 to 3/4 cup toasted sesame seeds for the almonds. Omit
the almond extact and flavor the dough with 1 tsp cinnamon and 1/2
tsp cloves. Variation 7 (Fekkas):  a Moroccon twice-baked cookie.
Substitute orange flower water for the brandy. Variation 8; Pine nuts
may be used instead of almonds, though the richness may be less
desirable than the crunch of the toasted almonds. Candied fruits,
too, may be added, 1/4 to 1/2 cup assorted fruits blended into the
dough before baking. Variation 9 (Chocolate Dipped): melt 1/2 pound
semi-sweet chocolate in the top of a double boiler over just
simmering water. If it "seizes" or "tightens", add 2 Tbsp of unsalted
buter and it should smooth out again. Dip only one side of each
cookie (the chocolate won't seal in the moisture that way).

