Title: CHILI WITH LAMB & BLACK BEANS
Categories: Chili
Yield: 8 Servings
1 3/4 c  Black beans, sorted and rins
2 qt Water, or more as needed
2 lb Lamb bones
4 ea Thyme sprigs
4 ea Parsley sprigs
1 ea Bay leaf
3 ea Garlic clove, crushed
6 tb Olive oil
2 ea Large yellow onions, chopped
1 1/2 lb Lamb shoulder, ground
2 tb Chili powder
2 tb Fresh minced ginger
2 tb Fresh Thyme, minced  OR
2 ts Dried Thyme, crumbled
1 tb Red hot chilie, seeded and d
1 1/4 ts Dried Marjoram, crumbled
3/4 ts Fresh ground white pepper
3/4 ts Fresh ground black pepper
3/4 ts Cayenne pepper
3/4 ts Allspice
2 lb Italian plum tomatoes, coars
1 1/4 c  Light Zinfandel wine
1 x  Salt as needed
FOR BEANS:  Soak beans overnight in 2 qt. water.  In a large saucepan,
bring beans to a boil.  Add lamb bones and bouquet garni and 1 crushed
garlic clove.  Reduce heat and simmer till beans are tender but not
mushy. Skim occasionally and add more water if necessary to keep
beans submerged. 2 hrs. FOR CHILI: Heat 3 T. oil in large heavy
saucepan over moderate heat. Add onions and cook until soft, about 10
minutes. Add 2 cloves garlic, minced, and stir about 3 minutes.
Transfer onion and garlic mixture to a plate, using a slotted spoon.
Add remaining oil to pan. Increase heat to med. high. Add lamb and
cook until no longer pink, breaking up with spoon, about 6 min.
Return onion mixture to pan; add chili powder, ginger, thyme, red
chili, marjoram, peppers and allspice. Stir 5 minutes. Add tomatoes (
and half of their liquid, if canned). Bring to a boil then reduce
heat and simmer for another 5 minutes.  Add 3/4 Cup of Zinfandel.
Simmer, skimming occasionally, for 30 minutes. Drain beans and
reserve the cooking liquid. Discard the bones and garni. add beans
and remaining Zinfandel to chili mixture.  Salt and season as
necessary. Simmer 30 minutes, adding bean cooking liquid as needed to
keep chili moist (or soupy, as you like it). This chili is best made
ahead and allowed to season in the refrigerator for 24 hours.  Reheat
before serving. Serves 8.

