Title: CHINESE SPAGHETTI
Categories: Pasta, Chinese
Yield: 6 Servings
1/2 lb Bean sprouts
2 tb Peas (fresh or frozen)
-per person
1    Cucumber
3    Eggs
1/2 c  Green onions, chopped
1 c  Chinese noodles (or
-linguine) per person
1 lb Lean pork or beef,
-chopped into small pieces
1 ts Ginger, crushed
1 tb Sesame seed oil
1/2 c  Chicken broth
5 tb Sweet bean sauce
-(or hoisin sauce)
3 tb Soy sauce
1 tb Chinese rice wine
1 1/2 ts Sugar (omit if hoisin
-sauce was used)
1/2 ts MSG
1 tb Green onion, finely
-chopped
TO PREPARE THE MEAT SAUCE:  Heat about 3 T oil in wok, brown the
ginger and green onion, then add meat and brown together.

Mix together the bean (or hoisin) and soy sauces, add this mixture to
the meat, and stir fry briefly.  Then add rice wine, sugar, MSG and
sesame oil. Add the chicken broth and simmer for about 3 minutes,
until the sauce becomes thick and shiny. Put mixture in a serving
bowl and set aside.

(GARNISHES)

:  o  Boil bean sprouts for 1 minute, drain, and put in serving bowl.
:  o  Warm peas and put in a serving bowl.
:  o  Cut cucumber into very fine strips, or grate. Place in serving
bowl. :  o  Scramble eggs, fry into very thin pancakes, and cut into
thin strips.

TO SERVE:  Cook noodles in boiling water for 3 minutes; drain. If you
are preparing this dish ahead, rinse with cold water, drain, and add
about 1 T sesame seed oil and mix well.

Serve about 1 cup hot or cold noodles in a bowl, then add the
garnishes and meat sauce to taste.

NOTES:

*  The original Chinese spaghetti -- This recipe is an interesting
variation from the usual restaurant chinese food. When I learned this
dish, I realized that this was the origin of the Italian pasta
dishes. It still serves as a reminder that there is a huge variety of
Northern Chinese dishes that use wheat-based starches instead of
rice. Yield: serves 6-8.

*  This dish can be prepared a day ahead and served cold. The
selection of vegetables in the garnish is pretty arbitrary. All kinds
of vegetable combinations are good. The only rule is that they should
all be cut into thin strips.

: Difficulty:  easy to moderate.
: Time:  1-2 hours (lots of preparation, little cooking).
: Precision:  Measure the sauce ingredients.

: Rob Horn
: Infinet, North Andover, Massachusetts, USA
: {decvax, seismo!harvard}!wanginst!infinet!rhorn

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

