Title: CHINESE-STYLE BARBECUED PORK
Categories: Meats, Chinese
Yield: 6 Servings
1/4 c  Shao xing
1/3 c  Soy sauce
1 tb Sugar
1 tb Ginger, fresh; grated
1    Garlic clove; minced
2 1/2 lb Boneless pork rib end roast
1/3 c  Catsup
1 tb Mustard, dry
2 ts ;Water
Combine the sherry, soy sauce, sugar, ginger and garlic, blending
well. Place the pork roast in a dish or plastic bag, add the sauce,
and brush over the meat or close the bag tightly and turn to coat the
meat with the sauce.  Marinate at room temperature 2 to 3 hours or in
the refrigerator overnight.

This cut of pork is best cooked on a grill with a cover or on a spit.
If you do not have a spit or grill with a cover, shape a loose tent
of foil over the meat to hold in the heat and help prevent flare-ups
while cooking.

Remove the meat from the marinade, reserving the marinade, and place
on a grill 6 to 8 inches above a drip pan surrounded by hot coals or
with the coals pushed to the back of the grill. Brush the meat with
the sauce and grill 1 hour, basting and turning as needed to cook
evenly and prevent flare-ups.  Test with a meat thermometer. When the
internal temperature reaches 160 degrees F. the meat is thoroughly
cooked but still tender and juicy.  A thick roast might require 30
minutes longer.

Just before the meat is done, mix the catsup into the remaining
marinade and brush over the meat.  Turn and glaze the meat over the
drip pan. Remove the meat to a serving plater, cover loosely with
foil and let stand 30 minutes.  About 10 minutes before serving, mix
the dry mustard to a smooth thin paste with the water. Slice the pork
roast thinly and serve the catsup sauce and mustard sauce separately,
or swirl the mustard into the catsup sauce.

"I was a young woman in Miami when I first had what my date called
Chinese roast pork with hot and heavenly sauce. This is my
adaptation, after I learned that the restauranteur's 'hot and
heavenly' is American catsup and mustard."

From Barbecued Ribs And Other Great Feeds by Jeanne Voltz

