Title: CHINESE CHILI WITH PEPPERS
Categories: Chinese, Lamb, Ceideburg 2
Yield: 1 Servings
3/4 lb Ground lamb
1 tb Dark soy sauce
1 tb Dry sherry
1 tb Hoisin sauce
1    Green bell pepper
1    Red bell pepper
1    Yellow bell pepper
1 sm Yellow on1on
2 tb Cornstarch
2 tb Peanut oil
1 tb Finely minced fresh ginger
4    Cloves garlic, finely minced
MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
1/2 c  Chicken stock
2 tb Dry sherry
2 tb Hoisin sauce
2 tb Oyster sauce
1 tb Bean sauce
1 tb Oriental sesame oil
1 tb Distilled white vinegar
1 1/2 ts Chinese chili sauce
Stir-fried ground meat and diced vegetables in a spicy sauce produce
an Oriental "chili" that can be mounded on steamed rice or buttered
noodles to make a quick and satisfying dinner.

ADVANCE PREPARATION:

In a bowl, thoroughly combine lamb, soy sauce, sherry, and hoisin
sauce. Set aside until ready to cook.

Seed and stem peppers, then cut into 1/2 inch cubes. Peel and
coarsely chop onion.  Set peppers and onion aside.

In a small bowl, combine sauce ingredients; set aside.

LAST-MINUTE COOKING:

Stir cornstarch with an equal amount of cold water, then set aside.
Place wok over highest heat.  When wok becomes very hot, add 1
tablespoon peanut oil to center, then roll oil around sides of wok.
When oil just begins to smoke, add lamb and stir-fry, pressing meat
against the sides of the wok, until it loses its raw color and
separates into small pieces, about 3 minutes.  Transfer to a work
platter.

Immediately return wok to highest heat and add remaining tablespoon
peanut oil to center.  Add ginger and garlic and saute for a few
seconds. Add vegetables and stir-fry until peppers brighten and onion
becomes transparent, about 2 minutes.

Return lamb to wok and pour in sauce.  Bring sauce to a low boil,
then stir in a little cornstarch mixture to lightly thicken. Reduce
heat to low and simmer for 2 minutes. Turn out onto a heated platter
or individual plates. Serve at once with steamed rice, noodles, or
bread.

Serves:  2 as an entree; 6 to 8 as part of an Oriental meal.

MENU IDEAS:  Easy dinner for 4 - Chinese Chili with Peppers (double
recipe); Onion Bread (double recipe; cook before guests arrive, and
reheat in oven); Steamed Corn with Chinese Herb Sauce; ice cream and
coffee.

Notes:  This dish is excellent made with ground pork, beef, or lamb,
but not with ground veal, chicken, or turkey.

To simplify any stir-fry dish, substitute 3/4 pound ground meat (pork,
beef, or lamb) for the cubed or sliced meat or seafood. This shortens
the preparation time but results in an equally good dish.

From "Pacific Flavors, Oriental Recipes for a Contemporary Kitchen",
Hugh Carpenter, Stuart, Tabori and Chang, N.Y., 1988. ISBN
1-55670-333-3.

Posted by Stephen Ceideberg; May 17 1993.

