Title: CHOC 'N' SPICE PROFITEROLES
Categories: Cookies, Chocolate
Yield: 6 Servings
1/2 c  All-purpose flour
2 tb All-purpose flour
1 ts Ground cinnamon
2/3 c  Water
1/4 c  Butter, diced
1 1/2 ts Butter, diced
2    Eggs, beaten
1 1/4 c  Whipping cream
1 tb Powdered sugar
2 ts Coffee flavoring
4 oz Semisweet chocolate, broken
-in pieces
2 tb Tia Maria
2 tb Light corn syrup
2 ts Superfine sugar
Preheat oven to 400'F. (205'C.). Lightly grease several baking sheets.

Sift flour and 1/2 teaspoon of cinnamon onto waxed paper. Pour water
into a saucepan. Add 3-1/2 tablespoons butter and heat gently until
butter melts. Do not allow water to boil before butter melts. Rapidly
bring to a boil, remove form heat and add flour all at once. Using a
wooden spoon, stir quickly to form a smooth mixture. Return pan to
medium heat a few seconds and beat well until dough forms a smooth
ball and leaves sides of pan clean.

Remove from heat and cool slightly. Gradually add eggs, a little at a
time, beating well after each addition to form a smooth shiny dough.
Transfer dough to a pastry bag fitted with a 3/4" plain tube. Pipe 24
small balls onto greased baking sheets.

Bake in preheated oven 20 minutes, then reduce oven temperature to
350'F. (175'C.) and continnue cooking 15-20 minutes longer or until
well risen, crisp and sound hollow when tapped on bottoms. Make a
slit in side of each pastry to allow steam to escape. Cool on a wire
rack.

Whip cream, powdered sugar and coffee flavoring until thick. Spoon
into a pastry bag fitted with a small star tube. Pipe cream into
pastry or use a teaspoon to fill pastry with cream. Arrange
profiteroles in a pyramid-shape on a serving dish.

Melt chocolate and remaining butter in a heatproof bowl set over a
pan of gently simmering water. Stir in Tia Maria and corn syrup and
continue stirring until sauce is smooth and coats back of a spoon.
Spoon chocolate sauce over profiteroles and let stand a few minutes.
Mix remaining 1/2 teaspoon of cinnamon with superfine sugar and
sprinkle over profiteroles.

NOTE: Profiteroles are at their best served 2 hours after assembling
when they have softened slightly.

