Title: Pumpkin Cheesecake with Maple/bourbon Sauce
Categories: Cheesecakes, Sauces
Yield: 6 servings
3/4 ts Ginger
1/2 ts Ground cloves
1/2 ts Freshly grated nutmeg
1 c  Unsweetened pumpkin puree,
-fresh or canned (not
-pumpkin pie
Filling)
5    Lg. Eggs
1/2 c  Heavy Cream
1 1/2 c  Fine gingersnap crumbs
-(about 1/2 lb. gingersnaps)
3/4 c  Chopped pecans or walnuts
6 tb Unsalted butter, melted
1/2 lb Cream cheese, at room
-temperature
1/2 c  Sugar
1/2 c  Lightly packed brown sugar
1 ts Cinnamon
Here's a cheesecake recipe I intend to try for Thanksgiving dinner. I found
it in the 10/21/91 issue of New York Magazine and thought I'd share it with
all of you.

PUMPKIN CHEESECAKE WITH MAPLE/BOURBON SAUCE

MAPLE - BOURBON SAUCE (recipe below)

Crust: Lightly butter a 10x2 inch round cake pan. Combine gingersnap
crumbs, nut, and butter in a bowl, and mix well. Press mixture firmly into
prepared pan, and refrigerate for at least 30 minutes.

Preheat oven to 350 degrees.

Make Filling: In a bowl, beat cream cheese until smooth. Add sugars and
spices, beat until light in texture, 3-4 min. Add pumpkin puree and mix
until just blended. Stir in eggs one at a time, scraping sides of bowl
after each addition. Stir in cream.

Pour batter into crust, and put cake pan in a roasting pan. Add hot water
to roasting pan halfway up sides of cake pan. Bake in center of oven until
cheesecake is firm to touch and slightly puffed, about 50 minutes.

Let cheesecake cool on a wire rack for about 45 minutes. Cover, and
refrigerate for at least 4 hours. When cheesecake is completely chilled,
lower pan into a hotwater bath for 2-3 min. to loosen the crust. Invert a
large, flat plate on top of cheesecake; invert pan, and remove. Put a
second plate on bottom of cheesecake, and turn it right side up. Cut with a
hot knife, and serve with maple/bourbon sauce.

Cheesecake will keep for 4-5 days in refrigerator and 2 weeks in the
freezer.

MAPLE-BOURBON SAUCE 1/4 C. Maple Syrup 3 Tb. Bourbon 1 C. Light Cream 1/4
Vanilla Bean, split lengthwise 3 Lg. Egg Yolks 1/4 C. Sugar 3/4 tsp.
Cornstarch 1/3 C. Heavy Cream Whipped

Combine maple syrup and bourbon in a saucepan. Over medium heat, bring to a
boil, and cook until reduced by 1/3, about 10 minutes; set aside to cool.

Put light cream and vanilla bean in a large saucepan, and bring to a boil.
Immediately remove from heat, and let bean infuse cream for about 10
minutes. Remove bean, and scrape pulp into cream.

Whisk together egg yolks, sugar and cornstarch. Stir in 1/2 C. cream and
return mixture to saucepan with rest of cream. Stirring continuously, cook
over low heat until thickened enough to coat back of a wooden spoon, 5-8
minutes.

Add reduced maple syrup and bourbon, and strain through a fine sieve into a
bowl set in ice. Stire until completely chilled, then fold in whipped
cream.

