Title: GREEN TOMATILLO MOLE ()
Categories: Sauces, Mexican
Yield: 6 Servings
3 oz Hulled raw pumpkin seeds OR
3 c  Chicken stock (no salt)
2 ea Jalapenos or serranos (2-3)
3 ea Garlic cloves, rough chopped
1/4 ts Cumin seeds or ground cumin
3/4 ts Ground cinnamon
5 ea Lg Romaine lettuce leaves OR
1 x  Salt to taste
3 oz Pine nuts
3/4 lb Tomatillos, husked & washed
1/2 ea Medium onion, rough chopped
4 ea Cilantro sprigs (4-5)
3/4 ea Inch cinnamon stick OR
2 ea Whole cloves OR pinch ground
5 ea Leaf lettuce leaves
1 tb Safflower or sunflower oil
Toast the pumpkin seeds in a dry frying pan, shaking pan or stirring
constantly until they are browned and toasty (for pine nuts) or until
they have browned and popped (for pumpkin seeds). Remove from the
heat and transfer to a blender jar if you're using pine nuts or to a
bowl if you're using pumpkin seeds.  If you're using pine nuts, blend
with 1 cup of the stock until smooth, then strain through a
medium-mesh strainer. If you're using pumpkin sees, pulverize in a
spice mill in batches and sift into a bowl.  Stir in 1 cup of the
stock and mix well. Set aside. Simmer tomatillos in water to cover
with the chilies (remove stems, seeds and membranes from chilies) and
simmer for 10 to 15 minutes. Drain and place in the blender jar.  Add
the onion, garlic, and cilantro. Grind the spices in a spice mill and
add to the blender jar. Add the lettuce leaves and salt. Blend until
the mixture is smooth. Heat the oil in a heavy-bottomed saucepan or
casserole over medium heat. Add the nut or seed mixture and cook,
stirring constantly, until the mixture thickens, about 5 minutes. Add
the tomatillo mixture and cook again, stirring for about 5 to 10
minutes, until the mixture is thick. Stir in the remaining 2 cups
chicken stock, bring to a simmer, cover partially, and simmer for 30
minutes. Taste and correct seasonings. If the mixture seems too
thick, stir in a little more chicken stock. Yield: About 3 cups
sauce. Serve with grilled or poached chicken breasts as main course.
Use as a dip with crudites, as a topping for nachos or enchiladas.
Add lime or lemon juice or vinegar and use as a salad dressing.
Sauce freezes well.

~--

