Title: GRIDDLED QUESADILLAS WITH CARAMELIZED ONIONS
Categories: Poultry, Main dish, Appetizers
Yield: 6 Servings
3 c  Chicken stock, and/or water
1 1/2 c  Cooked chicken breast,
-shredded
1 tb Vegetable oil
2 lg Red onions, thinly sliced
1/2 c  Beer, a medium bodied
Lager
2 tb Balsamic vinegar
1 ts Sugar
1 md Jalapeno Chile Pepper,
-seeded and finely
Chopped
1 ts Finely Chopped Fresh
-Oregano, Or 1/2 Tsp Dried
1/4 ts Salt
1/8 ts Pepper
Nonstick spray
3    Flour tortillas, 12 inch
-diameter
1 1/2 c  Jack cheese, shredded
MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
1/2 c  Favorite guacamole
1/2 c  Favorite salsa
1/2 c  Sour cream
Quesadillas, those puffy "little whims" as the Mexicans call
appetizers, can be found in most Mexican restaurants in many
variations. Sometimes called empanadas, these turnovers have evolved
through the years. Traditionally, masa dough is flattened and folded
over to enclose a variety of fillings.

In California we make quesadillas with either corn or flour
tortillas. They can be simple, with a melted cheese center, or more
complicated creations like this one. Olive oil spray on the pan or
griddle keeps the outside crispy without being overly greasy. If you
don't have the spray, add a tablespoon of vegetable or light-f

RECOMMENDED WINE: A spicy, rich central coast Chardonnay is perfect
with this flavorful appetizer.

1. In a deep medium skillet or a large saucepan, bring the chicken
stock (or enough of a combination of chicken stock and water to cover
the chicken) to a simmer. If you're using water only, add 1/2
teaspoon salt. Add the chicken breast and simmer for 10 to 12 minutes
or until just tender. Cool the chicken in the stock. Drain the
chicken, remove the skin, and shred it into bite-size slices.

2. Heat the oil in large non-aluminum casserole over medium-high
heat. Add the onions and saute, stirring frequently, for about 10 to
15 minutes or until well softened.

3. Add the beer, vinegar, sugar, and jalapenos to the onions and
simmer over low heat until almost all of the liquid has evaporated.
The onions should be very tender and slightly caramelized. Add the
oregano, salt, and pepper. Taste for seasoning and let cool.

4. Lightly spray a 12 inch nonstick skillet or griddle wtih nonstick
spray or add a tablespoonof oil and place over medium-high heat.
Place a tortilla in the skillet and spoon 1/2 cup of the onion
mixture evenly over one half. Sprinkle with 1/2 cup chicken and top
evenly with 1/2 cup shredded cheese; fold the tortilla in half,
pressign down with a spatula. Cook the quesadilla until lightly
brown, then turn over and cook the other side until lightly brown.
Place on a cutting board, slice into bite-size wedges, and keep warm
under foil.

5. Repeat to cook the remaining quesadillas. Arrange on a large
serving platter and serve immediately accompanied by guacamole,
salsa, and sour cream.

Advance Preparation: Can be prepared up to one day ahead through step
3 and refrigerated. Remove from refrigerator one hour before
continuing.

Shared on kitmailbox by Sherilyn Schamber, Huntington Beach, CA

