Title: GRILLED JERK CHICKEN
Categories: Poultry
Yield: 6 Servings
1/4 c  Inner Beauty, or other
-Caribbean hot sauce, OR
10    Scotch bonnet chile; pureed
-OR
15    Chile, fresh; your favorite
2 tb Rosemary, dried
2 tb Parsley; chopped
2 tb Basil, dried
2 tb Thyme, dried
2 tb Mustard seeds
3    Scallions; finely chopped
1 ts Salt
1 ts Black pepper
Juice of 2 limes
1/4 c  Mustard, cheap prepared
2 tb Orange juice
2 tb White vinegar
6    Chicken leg quarter
Combine all the rub ingredients in a food processor, or blender, and
blend them into a paste, making sure that all the ingredients are
fully integrated. The paste should be approximately the consistency
of a thick tomato sauce. If it is too thick, thin it out with a
little more white viegar.  Cover the paste and let it sit n the
refrigerator for at least 2 hours for the flavors to blend together.
Overnight is the ideal amount of time to give them to get acquainted.

(**NOTE** If you want to avoid making a fresh batch every time you
make this dish, you can multiply the amount of paste easily. Don't
worry about it going bad, since it keeps almost indefinitely.)

Rub the chicken leg quarters with paste and place them on the grill
over very low heat.  If you have a covered cooker, put the coals to
one side and the chicken on the other, and cover.

Cook about 1 hour without a cover or 1/2 hour if covered. The key
here is to use a very low heat.  You need to be patient and give
yourself plenty of time. The chicken is technically done when the
meat is opaque and the juices run clear.  However, the ideal is about
10-15 minutes past that point, when the meat pulls away from the bone
easily. It is very hard to overcook this. In fact you can only screw
it up if you burn the paste by having the heat too high.  The longer
the chicken stays on the grill, the more superior the smoky flavor.
After cooking, separate the leg from the thigh by cutting at the
natural joint between them. Serve one leg or thigh per person
accompanied by a few spoonfuls of Banana-guava ketchup.

Serves 4 as an entree or 6 as a light meal.

