Title: GRILLED FISH IN BANANA LEAF
Categories: Fish, Seafood, Oriental
Yield: 4 Servings
3    Garlic cloves
1 ts Black peppercorns
2 tb Chopped fresh coriander root
1 sl Fresh ginger, quarter-sized
-  crushed -
1 1/2 tb Soy sauce
2 lb Whole Snapper
-=OR=- Striped Bass -=OR=-
4    Whole Trout
1 lg Banana leaf
-(or more if needed)
Vegetable oil
-(for oiling leaf)
MMMMM----------------------CHILE LIME SAUCE---------------------------
3 sm Green serrano chiles
- seeded and finely chopped
3    Garlic cloves
2 tb Fresh coriander leaves
1 ts Sugar
1/4 ts Salt
1/2 c  Fresh lime juice
1/3 c  Chicken stock
This recipe illustrates the popular use of banana leaves as a food
wrapper in Asia. Aluminum foil works well as a substitute.

IN A MINI-FOOD PROCESSOR, add the garlic, peppercorns, coriander root
and ginger; process into a fine mince. Transfer into a mortar and
pound into a smooth paste; add soy sauce and blend thoroughly. Clean
fish and pat dry with paper towel. Rub garlic mixture over entire
fish; set aside for 30 minutes. Choose a banana leaf about 6 inches
longer and 3 times wider than the fish. Rinse leaf with cold water to
clean. Plunge leaf into a pot of boiling water for a few seconds to
soften. Wipe dry. Using a knife or scissors, remove the thick spine
in the leaf. Place the leaf with its glossy side down on a work
surface. (Use more leaves if needed.) Brush oil on the leaf where the
fish will lie. Set the fish with the marinade on the oiled surface.
Fold over the wide sides overlapping at the top and secure with
toothpicks. Turn over package, fold over ends to enclose sides, and
secure ends with toothpicks to make a neat parcel. Set packet about 3
inches above medium-high heat coals and grill each side for 8 to 10
minutes. NOTE: If using trout, marinate the 4 fish together. Wrap
each 1 individually and reduce the grilling time to about 3 minutes
on each side. Serves 4 as part of an Asian multicourse menu. Transfer
to a serving plate. Open leaf and serve with accompanying sauce.

CHILE LIME SAUCE: In a mortar or a mini-food processor, add the
chiles, garlic, coriander leaves, sugar and salt; pound (or chop)
into a smooth paste. Put chile mixture into a saucepan with lime
juice and stock; bring ~--

