Title: GRILLED PORCINI & BATAVIAN LETTUCE WITH
Categories:
Yield: 4 Servings
2 c  Shelled cranberry beans
6 c  Water
1/2 sm Onion
1    Garlic head
1 tb Rosemary
1 md Carrot
2    Bay leaves
Salt to taste
Lettuce:
4 oz Quality Pancetta
4    Heads small Batavian lettuce
(or escarole)  4
Garlic cloves
1 tb Extra virgin olive oil
Black pepper to taste
Salt to taste |
Porcini Mushrooms:
4 lg Porcinii mushrooms
2 tb Extra virgin olive oil
Coarse salt to taste
Black pepper to taste
Vinaigrette:
1 tb Oil (from cooked lettuce)
1 tb Oregano leaves
2 tb Brown chicken sauce
2 ts Sherry vinegar
2 tb Extra virgin olive oil
Black pepper to taste
Coarse salt to taste
Preparation of the Cranberry Beans: Place all of the ingredients in a
heavy sauce pan, except the salt. Bring to a boil over high heat,
turn down and simmer slowly for twenty minutes. Add salt and finish
cooking process, approximately five to ten minutes. Cool beans in
juice. Once cold, remove aromats and take the beans out. Refrigerate
beans, but do not discard the cooking juices. Preparation of the
Lettuce: Slice the Pancetta as thin as possible on a meat slicer and
wrap lettuce with it. Heat a heavy skillet with olive oil and let
smoke lightly. Add the wrapped lettuce and garlic cloves and turn
down heat to cook until golden brown to create crispy lettuce. Remove
from oil and reserve at room temperature. Discard half of the oil and
the garlic cloves. Reserve half of the oil in the pan. Preparation of
the Porcini Mushrooms: Slice the cleaned mushrooms into thick slices.
Season well and brush with olive oil. Grill well on both sides until
mushrooms are tender, about three minutes per side depending on the
size. Keep warm. Preparation of the Vinaigrette: Heat the oil from
cooking the lettuce in a skillet, add leaves of oregano until they
fry. Add brown chicken sauce, sherry vinegar, and olive oil. Serve
hot over the mushrooms, beans, and lettuce. Yield: 4 servings

: Chef du Jour
Recipe By
Cranberry Beans:

From: Minnie@juno.Com (Louise M Mccartndate: Wed, 23 Oct 1996
14:32:14 Pst

