Title: GRILLED ASIAN-SPICED MANGO & CHICKEN
Categories: Chicken, Fruits
Yield: 4 Servings
-JUDI M. PHELPS
1/2 c  Reduced-sodium soy sauce
1/4 c  Olive oil
1 tb Garlic; minced
1 tb Fresh ginger; minced
1 tb Juniper berries; crushed
1 tb Grated orange peel
4    Boneless chicken breasts;
-skinless (about 1-1/2 lb
-total)
2    Firm, ripe mangoes; (about
-2 lb total)
2    Oranges
1 tb Ground coriander
1 tb Chinese five spice powder
1/4 ts Salt
1/4 ts Pepper
1/4 c  Balsamic vinegar
1 tb Dijon mustard
6 c  Frisee salad greens; (about
-1/2 lb), root ends trimmed,
-rinsed, and crisped (other
-salad greens may be used)
8 c  Butter leaves; (about 1 lb)
-rinsed and crisped
1/2 c  Raspberries (optional)
In a large bowl, combine soy, oil, garlic, ginger, juniper berries,
and orange peel.  Add chicken; marinate 15 minute, turning often.

Meanwhile, with a sharp knife, cut skin from mangoes. Cut 2 rounded
cheeks from each pit.  Trim remaining 1/2-inch of flesh from edge of
each mango; mince these trimmings and reserve for mango vinaigrette.
Cut and discard peel and white membrane from oranges.  Slice each
orange crosswise into 6 rounds; set aside.

Combine coriander, five spice, salt, pepper.  Lift chicken from
marinade; place on a baking sheet (reserve marinade for basting). Set
mango cheeks on a lightly oiled grill above a solid bed of hot coals
in a barbecue with a lid, or use a gas grill on high heat (you can
hold your hand at grill level only 2 to 3 seconds); close lid on gas
grill. Baste chicken and mango with reserved marinade.  Using a
spatula, turn chicken and mangoes when they start to brown, in about
5 minutes. Baste again; cover barbecue. Let chicken and mango cook
until no pink remains when chicken is cut in thickest part, about 15
to 20 minutes; turn and baste chicken and mangoes every 5 minutes
(depending on mango ripeness, cooking time may be less than for the
chicken; remove mangoes when soft and seared).

Meanwhile, combine minced mango with vinegar and mustard. Mix with
frisee and lettuce.  Evenly divide among 4 dinner plates.

Lay mangoes cut side down; slice each into 3/8-inch wide slices,
starting 1/2 inch from top down through wide bottom end. With a wide
spatula, transfer slices to plates atop greens. Gently fan slices
apart. Lay chicken and oranges next to mangoes; sprinkle with
raspberries.

Shared and MM by Judi M. Phelps. jphelps@shell.portal.com or
jphelps@best.com

