Title: BASIL CHICKEN IN COCONUT-CURRY SAUCE *JB
Categories: Main dish, Poultry
Yield: 4 Servings
4    Skinless, boneless chicken
-breast halves (1 pound)
1/2 ts Salt
1/2 ts Ground coriander
1/2 ts Ground cumin
1/2 ts Ground cloves
1/2 ts Ground cinnamon
1/2 ts Ground cardamom
1/2 ts Cracked black pepper
1/4 ts Chili powder
1/4 ts Ground turmeric
1 lg Red onion, chopped (1 cup)
5    Cloves garlic, minced
2    Jalapeno peppers, seeded and
-finely chopped
1 tb Olive oil or cooking oil
1 cn (14-oz.) unsweetened coconut
-milk
2 ts Cornstarch
3 tb Snipped fresh basil
1 tb Finely chopped gingerroot
1 sm Red onion, cut into wedges
-(optional
Fresh basil leaves
-(optional)
Hot cooked rice
Rinse chicken; pat dry with paper towels. Cut into 1-inch pieces.
Place chicken in a medium bowl. In a small bowl stir together the
salt, coriander, cumin, cloves, cinnamon, cardamom, pepper, chili
powder, and turmeric. Sprinkle over chicken; toss to coat. Cover and
let stand at room temperature for 30 minutes or in the refrigerator
for 1 to 2 hours.

In a large nonstick skillet cook and stir chopped onion, garlic, and
jalapeno in hot oil over medium-high heat for 2 minutes. Remove,
reserving drippings in skillet. Add about half of the chicken. Cook
and stir for 2 to 3 minutes or till chicken is tender and no pink
remains. Remove chicken from skillet. Cook the remaining chicken, as
above, adding additional oil if necessary. Remove from skillet.

Stir together coconut milk and cornstarch. Carefully add to skillet.
Cook and stir till thickened and bubbly. Add chicken, cooked onion
mixture, snipped basil, and gingerroot to skillet. Cook and stir
about 2 minutes more to heat through. Serve over rice. Garnish with
red onion wedges and fresh basil if desired.

Per serving: 361 cal., 25 g total fat (17 g sat. fat), 59 mg chol.,
350 mg sodium, 11 g carbo., 1 g fiber, and 24 g pro. Daily Values: 1%
vit. A, 24% vit. C, 3% calcium, and 17% iron.

Note: Hot peppers contain oils that can burn eyes, lips, and sensitive
skin, so handle with care. Wear plastic gloves while preparing
peppers, and wash you hands thoroughly afterward.

Reprinted fron Better Homes & Gardens website:
http://www.bhglive.com/index.shtml

