Title: BASIL BREAKFAST STRATA
Categories: None, Breakfast
Yield: 6 Servings
1 c  Milk
1/2 c  Dry white wine
1    Day old loaf swiss peasant
-bread or French bread cut
-into 1/2 inch slices
8 oz Prosciutto, thinly sliced
2 c  Arugula leaves (1 bunch)
3 tb Olive oil
1 lb Basil torta cheese, thinly
-sliced
3    Ripe tomatoes, sliced
1/2 c  Basic Pesto
4    Eggs beaten
Salt and black pepper
1/2 c  Heavy or whipping cream
MMMMM------------------------BASIC PESTO-----------------------------
2 c  Fresh basil leaves
4 md Cloves, garlic chopped
1 c  Walnut meats or pine nuts
1 c  Olive oil
1 c  Freshly grated imported
-Parmesan Cheese
1/4 c  Fresh grated Romano cheese
Salt and ground black pepper
One day before serving, mix the milk and wine in a shallow bowl. Dip
1 or 2 slices of bread in the milk mixture. Gently squeeze as much
liquid as possible from the bread without tearing it.

Place the bread in a 12 inch round or oval au grain dish and cover
with a slice of prosciutto, several arugula leaves dipped in olive
oil, some slices of basil torta, and a few tomato slices. Drizzle
sparingly with pesto.  Repeat the layering, overlapping the bread
slices slightly, until the dish is filled

Beat the eggs with salt and pepper to taste and pour evenly over the
layers in the dish.  Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate
overnight.

The following day remove the dish from the refrigerator and let warm
to room temperature.

Preheat oven to 350 degrees

Drizzle the top with the cream and bake until puffy and browned, 45
minutes to 1 hour.  Serve immediately.

6    portions

Basic Pesto

2 cups fresh basil leaves 4 medium size cloves, garlic chopped 1 cup
walnut meats (or pine nuts) 1 cup best quality olive oil 1 cup
freshly grated imported Parmesan Cheese 1/4 cup freshly grated
imported Romano cheese Salt and freshly ground black pepper, to taste.

Process the basil, garlic, and walnuts (or pine nuts) in a food
processor fitted with a steel blade or in 2 batches in a blender,
until finely chopped.

With the machine running, pour in the oil in a thin, steady stream.

Add the cheeses, a big pinch of salt, and a liberal grinding of
pepper. Process briefly to combine. Remove to a bowl and cover until
ready to use.

Yield  2 cups.

