Title: BASIC BEEF STEW
Categories: Stew, Beef, Meats, Vegetables, Main dish
Yield: 6 Servings
2 lb Boneless chuck  1 1/2" thick
4    Thick bacon slices
2 lg Yellow onions
2 lg Cloves of garlic
3 tb Flour
3/4 ts Salt
1/2 ts Pepper
2 c  Beef broth
1/2 c  Red wine, beer, more broth
2    Parsley sprigs
2 ts Fresh tyme or 1/2 ts. dried
6 lg Carrots
2 lg Baking potatoes
8 oz Frozen pearl onions
Chopped parsley for garnish
Cooked egg noodles or rice
Trim of all fat from beef chuck. Cut into 1 1/2 inch pieces. Pat meat
dry with toweling. Cut bacon into 1/4 wide strips. Cut large onions
into 1/4 inch wide wedges. Mince garlic. Cook bacon in a heavy
bottomed 4 1/2 quart dutch oven, until crisp.   Remove pieces with
sloted spoon. Pour bacon fat into a bowl. Return 1 tbsp fat to pan.
Heat over medium-high heat. Add enough beef cubes to cover bottom of
pan. Cook, turning cubes with tongs, until browned on all sides. As
beef cubes brown remove from pan and add uncooked beef until all
pieces are done. Add bacon fat as needed to keep meat from sticking.
Remove all meat from pan. Add 1 tbsp bacon fat. Add onion wedges and
cook until onion wilts and is golden brown. Add garlic and cook and
stir for one minute.  Return meat to pan. Add salt, pepper, and
flour. Cook and stirover medium heat to brown the flour slightly,
about three minutes. Pour broth and wine, if used, into pan so meat
is barely covered. Stir well to scrape browned bits from bottom of
pan. Stir in parsley and thyme. Bring mixture to a boil. Reduce heat
to very low. Cover pan and let simmer for until meat is almost
tender, about 1 1/2 hours. Shortly before meat is tender, peel
carrots, and potatoes. Cut into pieces. Stir into meat mixture.
Continue cooking until carrots and potatoes are tender but not mushy,
about 20 minutes. Heat any remaining bacon fat in a large skillet,
add pearl onions and cook, stirring, until onions are golden on all
sides. Stir onions into stew. Cook five minutes. Sprinkle stew with
crisp bacon pieces and chopped parsley. Sevre over cooked noodles or
rice.

