Title: BROWN RICE BREAD
Categories: Breads
Yield: 6 Servings
6 c  Brown rice flour (900 g)
1 tb Salt (16.5 g)
2 2/3 c  Tepid water (635 ml)
4 ts Active dry yeast (1/2 oz or
-14 g)
1/2 c  Warm water (120 ml)
2 tb Honey (30 ml)
1/4 c  Oil (60 g)
1/4 c  Methocel (28 g)
The flour in this bread must be from short-or medium-grain rice, not
long-grain rice.  Start this bread 12 to 18 hours before you want to
bake.

Mix the rice flour and the salt, and make a well in the middle. Pour
in the water, mixing gradually from the center outward. Beat
vigorously for ten minutes either by hand, with a wooden spoon, or
with an electric beater at medium speed, to smooth and aerate the
batter. Let the mixture stand at room temperature for 12 to 18 hours.

Dissolve the yeast in warm water.  Stir the yeast solution, then the
honey and oil into the grain mixture and mix thoroughly by hand or
machine until completely smooth and uniform.  Add the methocel and
mix thoroughly again; the dough will become very stiff. (See the tips
below.)

Spoon into three well-greased 8" x 4" loaf pans.  Wet your fingers
with water or oil and smooth the tops. Keep the loaves in a warm (80
deg.F) and humid place to rise, until the batter reaches the top of
the pans. Watch the surface of the dough and be ready to put the
bread into a preheated oven as soon as the first tiny pinholes appear
on the top. Bake at 350 deg.F. for about 45 minutes, or until done.
Allow to cool thoroughly before slicing.

SOME TIPS: If the dough was too stiff, its surface will be full of
holes before it can rise, and the bread will be dense. If it is too
wet, it will rise up in a big arch like wheat bread, but it will
collapse. With a little practice you will get a feeling for the
proper consistency.

Don't try to substitute butter or shortening for the oil in this
recipe because they will affect the methocel function.

Store the bread in a plastic bag in the refrigerator, and freeze the
extra two loaves until you need them, as the bread tends to stale
quickly.

Posted by Kyosho Connick. Reposted by Fred Peters.

