Title: BUCHTY (JELLY/JAM FILLED SWEET ROLLS)
Categories: None
Yield: 1 Servings
1 kg Instant flour
100 g  Butter (melted)
80 g  Sugar
2    Egg yolks
40 g  Fresh yeast
3/4 l  Milk (lukewarm)
Rind of one lemon
1/2 ts Salt
Proof your yeast with 2 oz of the milk, bit of flour and sugar from
the measured ingredients.

When the yeast is ready, combine ingredients in a mixing bowl and mix
until the dough won't stick to you finger when touched lightly. The
recipe recommends setting some of the flour aside and adding it at
need, I don't do this anymore because I usually end up adding a
little bit more as it is. (different flours)

This is where the recipe stops and you're expect to know what to do
with it!
:-) Mom had a bit of trouble understanding why I couldn't just make
things when she bought me the exect same cookbook she uses (reprint).

Let the rise in an oiled bowl, covered, until doubled. Dump out on
lightly floured surface. Cut pieces of dough into lumps roughly the
size you get if you scoop generously with a serving spoon. Sorry, I
don't know how to do this one without showing you.

Now. You take a lump of dough and flatten it in your hands until you
can enclose the jam/jelly without getting the jam/jelly on any
closing edges. I tend to put the dough on the table to start. I pick
two opposite points and meet them at the center over the jam. I then
gather the rest up to that point starting at the outside working in.
the dough is fairly stick so it will seal fairly well. Pat it into a
roundish shape and place seam down in a well oiled baking pan with 2"
sides. As you place the rolls into the pan you want to swish them
around to get oil on the sides so that they come apart when they are
done.

I use appricot jam, red/black current jelly, and plum butter. You can
also make them with cream cheese filling, though I haven't tried that
one yet.

The rolles should be touching. I use a 9 x 13 pan and I get either 4
or 5 bunnes across (depending on how many people are coming and how
large I make them) a short side.

Let raise a few minutes, brush tops with a bit of oil (I try to use
any oil that pools around the buns from the "well oiled" part
before/if I add any). and bake in 350 degree oven for 15-20 minutes.

Remove from oven and brush tops again with oil (Sometimes I don't do
this and they seem ok, I think it's supposed to soften the top) and
let stand 5 minutes in pan, covered.

Invert onto cooling rack to cool completely. The traditional way to
serve this dictates sprinkling with icing sugar. I do for guests but
not for us at home.

Scatterbrained notes: I usually have more dough than the 9 by 13 pan
will hold, so I put the rest in an 8" round cake pan. the rolls will
expand to fill the space provided. If they are squished, they will
bake higher but the sides will be very thin. Don't break apart until
serving. Theses dry out if broken apart. Store on rack or plate (once
cooled) covered with a clean dishtowel.

This seems like an aweful lot of work, but it goes very quickly and
the rewards are great.

I've read this over twice and I don't think I've left anything out.

Good luck

Judy

