Title: BUCHE DE NOEL (YULE LOG)
Categories: Candies, Christmas
Yield: 16 Servings
MMMMM-----------------------BUCHE DE NOEL----------------------------
3/4 c  Cake flour
3/4 ts Baking powder
1/4 ts Salt
5 ea Eggs
3/4 c  Sugar
1 ts Vanilla extract
MMMMM----------------CHESTNUT BUTTERCREAM FILLING---------------------
1/2 c  Sugar, superfine
1 ea Egg yolks
1 pn Salt
1 1/2 ts Vanilla extract
2 tb Cream, heavy
1/2 c  Butter
2 c  Sugar, powdered
30 ea Chestnuts, whole cooked
2 tb Butter
4 tb Cream, heavy
1/3 c  Sugar, powdered
MMMMM--------------------MOCHA SILK FROSTING-------------------------
1 1/4 c  Sugar, powdered
3 tb Cocoa powder
2 ts Instant coffee
5 1/3 tb Butter
1 1/2 tb Corn syrup
1 ts Vanilla extract
2 tb Cream, heavy
Have ready: clean lint-free dish towel and cookie sheet larger than
jelly roll pan. Preheat oven to 400; prepare 10"x15"x1" jelly roll
pan by greasing it, lining bottom and sides with wax paper, and
greasing wax paper.  Bring eggs to room temperature and separate. Mix
flour, baking powder, and salt; set aside. Beat yolks until thick and
pale. Gradually add 6T sugar, beating well after each addition.
Mixture should fall in thick ribbon when beaters are lifted. Add
vanilla and beat again. With clean dry beaters, beat egg whites until
foamy. Gradually add remaining sugar, beating constantly, until
whites stand in firm, glossy, moist peaks. Fold 1/3 whites into yolk
mixture to lighten it, then fold remaining whites in too. Gradually
fold dry ingredients into egg mixture; fold in gently but thoroughly.
Spread batter evenly in prepared pan, making sure to get it into the
corners. Put pan into oven immediately. Bake 10-12 minutes, just
until cake is golden on top and tester comes out clean. Do not
overbake. Remove from oven; working quickly, cover jelly roll pan
FIRST with clean towel, then with inverted cookie sheet. Turn over
pan, towel, and sheet to turn out cake. Remove jelly roll pan; peel
off wax paper. Slide towel and cake onto counter; cake is wrong side
up. Cut off any crisp edges, fold one end of towel over short end of
cake, and roll cake in towel. Place rolled cake seam side down on
wire rack or cookie sheet to cool completely. CHESTNUT BUTTERCREAM
FILLING: combine sugar, egg yolk, salt, vanilla, and cream; beat for
8 minutes at medium speed. Without washing beaters, cream butter
until light. Add yolk mixture a little at a time, beating well after
each addition. Gradually add powdered sugar, beating well after each
addition. Set basic buttercream aside. Puree chestnuts with butter,
cream, and powdered sugar. Stir chestnut puree into buttercream,
blending thoroughly.  If necessary, thin with a little more cream to
bring to very spreadable consistency. MOCHA SILK FROSTING: powder
instant coffee by placing in plastic bag and crushing with rolling
pin. Mix together sugar, cocoa, and coffee. Add remaining ingredients
and beat for 1 minute at medium speed.  If necessary, add a little
more cream to make frosting easy to spread. Unroll cooled cake,
leaving it on towel; don't worry about the cake looking deflated, it
will perk up soon. Spread 1/2 c frosting evenly over cake, all the
way to the edges. Spread 2 c filling over thin layer of frosting,
pushing generous amount into curved end. Roll up again, without towel
but using it to help roll.  Place cake, seam side down, on cake plate
or tray. Remove any excess villing from ends and seam edge.
Refrigerate for 1 hour to firm filling. Trim and discard (or eat!) a
thin slice from one end of chilled cake; cut and reserve wedge from
other end. Spread a small amount of filling on top center of cake and
press reserved wedge on it to make the "knothole." Frost entire cake
with remaining frosting, building frosting up around sides of
"knothole."  Do NOT cover knothold top! Work frosting as far under
roll as possible. Repeatedly draw narrow metal spatula lengthwise
through frosting to simulate rough texture of bark. Snip pieces of
angelica into leaf shapes and cut glace cherries in half to make log
decorations. Keep cake refrigerated until serving; it is much easier
to slice when cold and firm. Before serving, surround cake with holly
and cranberries.

