Title: BUCKWHEAT CREPES WITH ONIONS~ APPLES~ & CHE
Categories: Vegetarian
Yield: 8 Servings
18    Buckwheat crepes; up to 20
6 lb Yellow onions
2 tb Olive oil
2 tb Butter
1 ts Salt; more to taste
Black pepper
1 1/2 lb Tart green apples; about 4,
-use pippins or Granny Smith
3 tb Calvados
8 oz Sharp cheddar cheese; grated
Prepare the Buckwheat Crepes and set aside.

Peel the onions, cut them in half lengthwise, and then slice them
thickly. Heat a tablespoon of olive oil and a tablespoon of butter in
each of two large non-stick pans, and divide the onions between them.
Sprinkle about 1/2 teaspoon of salt over each batch and cook the
onions on medium heat, stirring occasionally, until they are golden
brown. This will take about 45 minutes. Add black pepper to taste.

Meanwhile, peel the apples, cut into wedges, and slice the wedges
crosswise. When the onions are lightly browned and much reduced in
volume, consolidate them into one pan. Add the Calvados to the onions
and stir quickly to deglaze the pan. Add the sliced apples, and a
touch more salt if needed. Continue cooking, stirring often, until
the liquid is entirely gone, the onions are a deep caramel color, and
the apples are tender.

Spoon 2 to 3 rounded tablespoons of the onion mixture across the
center of a crepe, then sprinkle about 1/2 ounce of grated cheese
over it. Roll the crepe loosely over the folling and place it seam
side down on a buttered baking sheet. Continue filling and rolling
crepes until all the onions and cheese are used up. You should have
at least 16-18 filled crepes. Reserve any leftover crepes for another
use.

Cover the crepes loosely with a piece of aluminum foil, and bake them
in a 350 degree oven for 10-15 minutes, or until they are hot through
and the cheese is completely melted. If you have filled the crepes
earlier and kept them in the refrigerator for a while, adjust the
oven time upward by at least 5 minutes.

Serve the crepes at once, with a green salad, and Cranberry-Jalapeno
Sauce.

Source: "The New Vegetarian Epicure" by Anna Thomas

