Title: BULGUR MEATBALLS (KEFTEDE)
Categories: Bulgur, Lebanon, Meats
Yield: 4 Servings
3/4 c  Bulgur
1/2 c  Chickpeas -- cooked 4 oz
1 lb Ground lamb -- lean, see
Note
1/2 c  Bread crumbs
(finely crumbled pita
Bread)
1 lg Egg -- slightly beaten
1/4 c  Fresh lemon juice
1    Clove garlic -- crushed
1 1/2 ts Ground coriander
1 ts Ground cumin
1/2 ts Salt
1/4 ts White pepper
1/4 c  Chopped parsley -- or mint
Or mix
3 tb Virgin olive oil -- or less
1    Sprig fresh mint -- for
Garnish
Salad leaves -- for garnish
1/3 c  Plain lowfat yogurt --
Optional
VARIATIONS Use less meat. Substitute ground turkey 1 medium egg for
the large

PREPARATION   (30 minutes) - Place the bulgur in a small bowl, add
enough cold water to cover and let soak for 10 minutes. Drain through
a sieve lined with a piece of cheesecloth. Wrap the cheesecloth
around the bulgur and squeeze out the excess water. - OR USE INSTANT
~ Place the chickpeas in a blender or a food processor fitted with a
metal blade and blend until finely chopped. (Or coarse chop)

COOKING  (30 minutes chilling and 30 minutes cooking) ~ Place the
bulgur, chickpeas, lamb, bread crumbs, egg, lemon juice, garlic,
coriander, cumin, salt, pepper and mint in a large mixing bowl and
combine well. - With cold, wet hands, roll the mixture into 30
balls,about 1-1/2 in (3 cm) in diameter. Place on a large plate,
cover and refrigerate for at least 20 minutes. Re-roll the chilled
meatballs, if necessary, to refine the shape. - Heat half the oil in
a large, non-stick skillet over medium heat. Reduce the heat to low,
add half the meatballs and cook, moving and turning over frequently,
until browned on all sides and cooked in the center, about 6 to 8
minutes. Test one for pink-center. Transfer to paper toweling when
done. Cover with foil to keep warm. - Heat the remaining oil in the
skillet and cook the remaining meatballs. - Place meatballs on a warm
serving platter. Serve hot, garnished with mint and salad leaves or
dandilion greens. Serve with yogurt in a bowl. Recipe By
: World's Finest:  Pasta and Grains (1996)

