Title: BULLS EYE CHEESECAKE (KH)
Categories: Cheesecake, Cheesecakes
Yield: 1 Servings
32 oz Cream cheese, room
Temperature
1/4 c  Sour cream
1 ts Vanilla
1/4 ts Almond extract
1/4 ts Salt
4 lg Eggs
2/3 c  Sugar
2/3 c  Dark brown sugar
1 ts Powdered (not granulated)
Instant coffee
2 ts Unsweetened cocoa powder
1/4 c  Graham cracker crumbs
Adjust rack 1/3 up from bottom of oven & preheat to 350 Carefully
butter 8x3" cheesecake pan all the way up to the rim & including
inside rim itself or cake will stick to rim as it rises & will
therefore not rise evenly. Will also need a large pan (for hot water)
to place cake pan in while baking; the larger pan must not be as deep
as the cheesecake pan, & it must be wide enough so it will not touch
the sides of cake pan. Set aside. In large bowl of electric mixer
beat cheese until soft & smooth, frequently scraping sides of bowl
with rubber spatula & beaters themselves with finger to be sure
cheese is uniformly smooth. Beat in sour cream, then vanilla & almond
extracts, salt & then eggs, one at a time, scraping bowl occasionally
& beating after each addition until incorporated. Remove bowl from
mixer. You will have 6 cups of mixture. Place half (3 cups) in
another bowl that is large enough to allow you to stir in it. Add
sugar to one bowl & brown sugar to the other. With rubber spatula for
each bowl stir ingredients for 1 minute until sugar has dissolved &
mixtures have thinned out.

To dark mixture, add instant coffee & through a fine strainer, the
cocoa. Stir until coffee & cocoa have dissolved & there are no
visible specks of either. Now to form design. You have a scant 4 cups
of each mixture. The two will be placed alternately in pan. Each
segment will be scant 1 cup of mixture. Use two 1 cup glass measuring
cups, one for the dark & one for the light. It does not matter which
color you use first. Pour either directly into middle of the prepared
pan. It will spread out by itself to cover bottom of pan. Then pour
same of the other mixture directly into middle of the first. This
will spread out by itself also. Then use first color again, right in
the middle. Continue until you have used all of both batters or four
additions of each mixture. Now, handle pan very carefully in order
not to disturb design. Place cake pan in larger pan & pour hot water
into larger pan about 1 1/2" deep. If the larger pan is aluminum add
about 1 tsp. cream of tartar to hot water to keep pan for
discoloring. Carefully transfer to oven & bake 1 1/2 hours. Then
remove cake pan from hot water & set aside to cool. During baking the
top of the cake will darken to a rich honey color & will rise up to &
sometimes above the top of the pan; during cooling it will sink down
to its original level. When bottom of cake has reached room
temperature the cake is ready to be unmolded. Dip bottom of pan in
wide fry pan of boiling water for 10-15 seconds before unmolding.
After dipping bottom of pan in water, dry pan, cover it with flat
plate or board, carefully hold cake pan & board firmly together &
turn them over. If cake doesn't slip out of pan easily, bang pan &
platter or board against work surface. Remove pan. Sprinkle crumbs
over cake ( this will become bottom & crumbs will keep it from
sticking to plate) cover with serving plate, turn it all over again,
leaving cake right side up. Refrigerate. Will slice best of you dip a
knife into a deep pitcher of very hot water before making each cut.
The hotter the water, the better.

