Title: BURNT-ORANGE MERINGUE CAKE
Categories: Desserts, Cakes
Yield: 12 Servings
MMMMM-------------------ALMOND MERINGUE LAYERS------------------------
1 3/4 c  Whole almonds
3/4 c  Sugar
2 tb Cornstarch
1 c  Egg whites
1 pn Salt
1/2 c  Sugar
2 ts Vanilla extract
1/2 ts Almond extract
1/2 c  Toasted sliced almonds
- for finishing
MMMMM-------------------CARAMEL-ORANGE FILLING------------------------
3/4 c  Sugar
1/2 ts Lemon juice
1 c  Milk
4    Egg yolks
2 tb Grated orange zest
1 1/2 c  Unsalted butter
MMMMM--------------------GLAZED ORANGE SLICES-------------------------
1/2 c  Orange juice
1    Envelope gelatin
2/3 c  Apricot preserves
2 lg Oranges
PREHEAT OVEN TO 350F. For the meringue layers, pulse the almonds in
the food processor until coarsely ground. Place them on a baking pan
and toast for about 15 minutes, stirring frequently, until golden.
Cool and combine with the sugar and cornstarch. Reduce oven to 300F.
Whip the egg whites on medium speed with the salt until white and
opaque. Increase speed to maximum and whip in remaining sugar.
Continue whipping until egg whites hold a firm peak. Fold in extracts
and toasted almond mixture. Pipe batter on paper-lined pans with a
pastry bag fitted with a 1/2-inch plain tube to make three 10-inch
disks. Bake at 300F about 30 minutes, until crisp but not completely
dry. Cool layers on pans. FOR THE FILLING, place the sugar and lemon
juice in a saucepan and stir well to combine. Place on medium heat
and stir occasionally until the sugar melts and caramelizes. Add the
milk carefully (the caramel will splatter) and return to a boil,
stirring to dissolve any hardened caramel. Whisk yolks in a bowl with
orange zest and whisk half the boiling milk into them. Return
remaining milk to a boil and whisk in yolk mixture, continuing to
whisk until thickened. Strain into a bowl and cool. Beat butter with
paddle on medium speed until soft and light. Beat in custard cream
and beat filling smooth. FOR THE GLAZED ORANGES, combine the orange
juice and gelatin in a bowl. Bring the apricot preserves to a boil
over low heat, stirring occasionally. Add the orange mixture and
return to a boil, reducing slightly. Strain and cool slightly. Halve
and slice oranges thinly. Dip orange slices in glaze and place on a
pan lined with plastic wrap to set. To assemble, trim layers to an
even 10-inch diameter and place one on a cardboard. Spread with 1/4
of the filling. Repeat with another layer and another 1/4 of the
filling. Top with last layer and mask cake with another 1/4 of the
filling. Use the remaining filling to make a border of rosettes on
the edge of the cake and a circle of rosettes in the center. Press
the sliced almonds against the side of the cake and fill in the
center circle with them. Arrange orange slices on the rosettes.

