Title: BURNT SUGAR SYRUP
Categories: Cakes
Yield: 12 Servings
Stephen Ceideburg
3/4 c  Sugar
3/4 c  Boiling water
BURNT SUGAR CAKE
3 c  Sifted cake flour
2 ts Baking powder
1/2 ts Salt
3/4 c  Unsalted butter, room
-temperature
1 1/4 c  Sugar
3    Eggs, room temperature
1/4 c  Burnt sugar syrup
Water
1 ts Vanilla
Burnt Sugar Frosting (see
-recipe)
Pecan halves for decoration
BURNT SUGAR FROSTING:
1/4 c  Unsalted butter
1 lb Powdered sugar, sifted
1/4 ts Salt
1/4 c  Burnt Sugar Syrup
1 ts Vanilla
Melt sugar in a skillet over low heat, stirring occasionally, until it
turns into an amber-colored liquid. Turn off heat, and carefully add
boiling water (mixture will bubble madly). Return the caramel to low
heat and simmer, stirring frequently, until the sugar and water are
thoroughly mixed and no lumps of sugar remain. Set aside to cool to
room temperature.

BURNT SUGAR CAKE: Adjust rack to lower third of oven; preheat at oven
to 350 degrees F. Grease and flour two 9-inch layer cake pans. Line
with parchment or waxed paper rounds.

Sift together flour, baking powder and salt. Cream butter until
smooth. Add sugar and continue creaming until light and fluffy. Add
eggs, 1 at a time, beating after each addition until well blended. To
the 1/2 cup of burnt sugar syrup add enough water to make 1 cup; stir
in the vanilla.

Add the dry ingredients to the butter mixture alternately with the
burnt sugar syrup mixture, beginning and ending with dry ingredients,
until well blended and smooth. Divide the batter between the 2 cake
pans.

Bake about 25 minutes, or until the surface springs back slightly when
lightly touched in the center, and the cakes con- tract from the
pans. Cool 10 minutes on wire racks, then invert on racks, carefully
peel off paper liners, turn baked side up, and cool completely before
frosting. Fill and frost with Burnt Sugar Frosting. Decorate with
whole pecan halves.

BURNT SUGAR FROSTING: Cream 1/4 cup unsalted butter until light and
fluffy. Gradually beat in 1 pound (1 box) powdered sugar, sifted with
1/4 teaspoon salt, 1/4 cup Burnt Sugar Syrup and 1 teaspoon vanilla
until creamy smooth and spreadable. If mixture is stiff, add water, a
teaspoon at a time.

PER SERVING (with frosting): 565 calories, 4 g protein, 91 g
carbohydrate, 22 g fat (13 g saturated), 106 mg cholesterol, 216 mg
sodium, 1 g fiber.

Flo Braker writing in the San Francisco Chronicle, 10/2/91.

Posted by Stephen Ceideburg

