Title: HAZELNUT SUCCES
Categories: Desserts
Yield: 12 Servings
5 oz Hazelnuts
- lightly toasted & skinned
1 c  Confectioners' sugar
6    Egg whites; room temperature
1 pn Cream of tartar
1 c  Granulated sugar
MMMMM----------------HAZELNUT PRALINE BUTTERCREAM---------------------
3/4 c  Granulated sugar
1/2 c  -Water
5    Egg yolks
1    Egg; (whole)
3/4 lb Unsalted butter
- softened & lightly beaten
1 2/3 c  Hazelnut Praline; (below)
MMMMM----------------------HAZELNUT PRALINE---------------------------
5 oz Hazelnuts
- lightly toasted & skinned
1 1/4 c  Granulated sugar
1/2 c  -Water
Preheat the oven to 250 F.  Line 2 large baking sheets with parchment
paper and trace a 10-inch circle onto each piece of parchment. Finely
grate the toasted hazelnuts (a rotary nut grater works best) into a
bowl. Sift in 3/4 cup of the confectioners' sugar and toss to mix
thoroughly.

In a large bowl, beat the egg whites and cream of tartar on low speed
until foamy, about 2 minutes. Increase the speed to high and beat
until the whites nearly double in volume and stiff peaks form.
Gradually beat in the granulated sugar, 1 tablespoon at a time. Beat
until the whites are dense and glossy and form stiff peaks. With a
large rubber spatula, lightly fold in the nut mixture until no white
streaks remain.

Use a tiny amount of the nut meringue to anchor the corners of the
parchment to the baking sheet. Spoon half of the meringue onto one of
the circles and, with a thin metal spatula, spread into an even layer
to fill the circle.  Form a second circle with the remaining meringue
on the other baking sheet.

Bake the nut mixture in the upper and lower thirds of the oven,
switching positions once, until lightly browned and crisp throughout
when tapped, 1 to 1-1/2 hours. The amount of time it takes to dry out
will depend on the humidity of the day.  Let cool to room
temperature. (The recipe can be prepared to this point up to 2 days
ahead.) Wrap the meringue layers, with the parchment still attached
to the bottom (for stability), in a large sheet of foil to seal.

TO ASSEMBLE THE DESSERT:  Peel off the parchment paper from the
meringue layers.  Set one layer on a flat surface and spread evenly
with 2 cups of the (room temperature) Hazelnut Praline Buttercream.
Place the second layer, flat-side up, on top of the buttercream and
press gently. With a metal spatula, spread the remaining buttercream
evenly on the top and sides of the cake.

To decorate, press the Hazelnut Praline around the sides of the cake
and sift the remaining 1/4 cup confectioners' sugar evenly over the
top or use stencils to create a design. Garnish with the whole
hazelnuts. Refrigerate uncovered for at least 1 hour, or up to 24
hours to firm up. Serve chilled.

HAZELNUT PRALINE BUTTERCREAM: In a small heavy saucepan, combine the
sugar with the water.  Bring to a boil over moderately high heat,
stirring to dissolve the sugar. Boil without stirring until the syrup
reaches the soft-ball stage, 244 degrees F on a candy thermometer,
about 6 minutes.

Meanwhile, in a bowl, beat the egg yolks and whole egg on high speed
until pale, fluffy and quadrupled in volume, about 5 minutes.

Gradually beat the boiling syrup into the eggs in a thin steady
stream. Beat until the mixture cools to room temperature, 6 to 8
minutes.

Gradually beat in the butter, 4 tablespoons at a time, and continue
to beat until the buttercream is fluffy.

Fold in the Hazelnut Praline.  Use at once or cover and refrigerate
overnight.  Remove from the refrigerator at least 1 hour before
using, to return to room temperature. (Makes about 3-2/3 cups)

HAZELNUT PRALINE:  Lightly oil a baking sheet and place the nuts in a
single-layer in the middle of the tray.

In a heavy saucepan, combine the sugar with the water. Bring to a
boil over moderately high heat, stirring to dissolve the sugar. Boil
without stirring until the sugar turns golden, about 10 minutes.

Drizzle the boiling caramel over the nuts and set aside until hard and
cool, about 20 minutes.

Break the nuts and caramel into chunks by hitting the bottom of the
tray. Grind to a powder in a food processor, about 20 seconds. Use at
once or store in an airtight container for up to 3 weeks. (Makes about
2-1/4    cups)

Source: Diana Sturgis, Food & Wine Great Desserts Typos by: Karen
Mintzias

