Title: HEAVEN & HELL CAKE
Categories: Cakes
Yield: 16 Servings
Angel food:
2/3 c  Cake flour
1 c  Confectioners sugar
1 c  Egg whites (7 or 8)
Pinch of salt
1 ts Cream of tartar
2/3 c  Sugar
1 ts Vanilla extract
1/2 ts Almond extract
Devil's food:
1/2 c  Powdered cocoa
1 c  Strong coffee
1/2 c  Shortening
1 1/2 c  Sugar
1 ts Vanilla extract
2    Eggs
1 1/2 c  Cake flour
3/4 ts Salt
1/4 ts Baking poweder
1 ts Baking soda
Peanut butter mousse
(recipe follows)
Ganache
(recipe follows)
To make the angel food: Heat oven to 375 degrees. Cut parchment paper
or wax paper to fit the bottom of a 10 inch round cake pan. Do not
grease the pan or paper.

Sift together the flour and confectioner's sugar.  Set aside.

Place egg whites in bowl of a heavy duty mixer.  Beat slowly while
adding the salt and cream of tartar; then continue beating for 1
minute or until soft peak form. Increase speed to medium ; add sugar
by Tablespooons until it is all incorporated, then beat 1 1/2 minutes
longer. When egg whites have stiff peaks, add vanilla and almond
extracts.

Remove bowl from mixer and sprinkle half of the confectioners'
sugar-flour mixture over the egg whites. Fold in with a rubber
spatula; sprinkle with remaining with remaining sugar-flour mixture
and fold again using a minimum number of strokes so that the egg
white do not deflate. Gently spoon the mixture into prepared pan and
bake 40 to 50 minutes, or until golden brown. Do not overbake or the
cake will sink in the center.

To make the devil's food:  Heat oven to 350 degrees. Grease and flour
a round 10-inch cake pan.

Sift cocoa into a mixing bowl, then drizzle in the coffee while
whisking to make a smooth paste.  Set aside.

Combine shortening, sugar, vanilla and eggs, and beat for 2 minutes at
medium speed.

In a separate bowl, sift togethr the flour, salt, baking powder and
baking soda.

Alternately add the cocoa-coffee mixture and flour mixture to the
sugar-egg mixture and continue beating until incorporated. Pour
batter into prepared pan and bake for 30 minutes.

To assemble cake:  When both cakes have cooled, carefully slice them
in half horizontally with a sharp serrated knife (the longer the
better) so that you have 4 cake layers.

To slice the angel food cake, spray knife with oil. Holding the top
of the cake with your flat open hand, use a sawing action to slice
through. Do not put pressure on the knife or the cake might tear;
just let the sawwing action do its work. (If the cake sinks in the
center, fill it in with some extra mousse.  Make this the top layer
and it will be easier to level off)

Place 1 layer on the devil's food cake on a plate and spoon a third
of the Peanut Butter Mousse on top.  Add a layer of the devil's food
cake on a plate and spoon a third of the Peanut Butter Mousse on top.
Add a layer of the angel food , then spread with another third of the
mousse. Add second devil's food layer, then reamining mouse. Top with
remaining angel food layer.

Whisk the Ganache, then spread over the cake with a spaaatual,
frosting the top and sides generously. Refrigerate for a least 2
hours before serving. Served chilled, slice with a warm wet knife.

