Title: HERBS FOR SEASONING
Categories: Info
Yield: 1 Servings
No ingredients
Fresh herbs have more zest and flavor than dried herbs. For this
reason, you are fortunate if your local market carries a selection,
or if you can grow your own in a garden or window box. Following is a
list of the most common ones and how they are used:

BASIL - A recognized "mate" for tomato sauces, juices, and tomato
dishes. Also good in soups and fish cocktails with crab and shrimp.
Inspiring with veal, lamb, duck, and game; in vegetables like
eggplant, zucchini, and onions, and in green salads and sauces.

BAY LEAF - Good in stews and pot roasts, fish salads, gravies and
sauces. As it has a distinct flavor, use sparingly.

CHERVIL - Ideal as a garnish and in salads, soups, omelettes, all
meats, poultry and game, sauces, and vegetables such as new potatoes
and asparagus.

DILL - Good with all fish, also with lamb, veal and chicken. Also
distinctive with many vegetables and salads, and especially in sour
cream sauces.

MARJORAM - This is a popular herb of which the uses are endless. Good
in salads, vegetable dishes, omelettes, meat dishes, poultry stuffing
and sauces.

MINT - Used in fruit c  and carrots, new potatoes, and with lamb.
Fresh picked leaves may be crushed or used whole as a garnish also in
dried flakes.

OREGANO - Has a pungent taste. Used in soups, stews, meat balls,
sausage and pork, stuffings, sauces, and many vegetables.

PARSLEY - Used as a garnish, and also for seasoning and color in
stuffings, soups, stews, and sauces. Good with fish, meat, poultry,
vegetable, and egg dishes.

ROSEMARY - Used in fruit compotes, chicken and pea soups, in
stuffings and stews. Also with meat, lamb, poultry, and game, as well
as vegetables such as spinach and lima beans.

SAFFRON - Aromatic dried pungent stigmas of this plant (a species of
crocus) are used to flavor and color, especially curry dishes with
rice.

SAGE - Has a strong flavor, so use sparingly.  cn be used in
stuffings, chowders, stews, or gravies.

SAVORY - Used in beans, fish, and pea soups, hearty stews and salads,
and some sauces.

TARRAGON - Widely used in salads and sauces, soups, egg dishes,
vegetable, and fish, veal, chicken, and turkey.

THYME - Many dishes benefit from this one: stuffings, stews, sauces,
fish, meat, cheese and vegetables such as carrots, onions, potatoes
and peas. Via: RFIX_S 09-28-1994

