Title: HERB-OATMEAL BREAD (CLAY-POT)
Categories: Breads
Yield: 2 Loaves
2 pk Active dry yeast
3 tb Honey
1 1/2 tb Salt
2 c  Water
3/4 c  Oatmeal; not instant
2 tb Sour cream
3/4 c  Whole wheat flour
1 ts Celery seeds
1 ts Poppy seeds
1 tb Sesame seeds
1 tb Fresh sage; chopped
1 tb Fresh basil; chopped
1/2 ts Dill; dried
1    Egg; beaten
2 tb Butter; melted
1/2 c  Pine nuts
4 c  All-purpose flour
Combine the yeast, honey and salt with 1 cup lukewarm (not hot) water
and set aside. (Remember: if the water is too hot it will kill the
growing yeast.)

Heat 1 cup water to boiling, and add the oatmeal and sour cream.
Simmer, covered, for 10 minutes, then remove from the heat and cool
to lukewarm. Combine the whole-wheat flour, seeds, and herbs in a
large mixing bowl. Add the oatmeal and yeast mixtures and beat until
well blended. Add beaten egg and melted butter and beat several times
again. Add the pine nuts, then add 3 cups of the all-purpose flour,
one cup at a time, beating between each addition until a fairly stiff
dough is developed.

Spread the remaining all-purpose flour on a board and knead the dough
into it thoroughly, about a dozen times, then put the dough in a
large, well-greased bowl and cover with a damp cloth. Set to rise in
a warm place until double its original bulk (about 1 hour).

Just before the end of the rising time, presoak 2 clay pots, top and
bottom, in hot water for 15 minutes. (We use 2 pots in order to bake
each loaf separately.)

Place the risen dough on a floured board, divide, and shape into 2
loaves. Before putting the loaves in the presoaked pots, put a small
piece of aluminum foil, just large enough to cover the bottom of the
loaf, on the bottom of each pot. (This keeps the bread from sticking
to the pot.) Place the dough inside the pots, cover, and allow to
rise until almost doubled in bulk (about 45 minutes). (I wrapped the
pot in a wet towel to keep it from drying out too soon.)

Cover the pots and put them in a cold oven.

Set the oven temperature at 480 degrees. Bake for 40 minutes. If
necessary, remove lid for the last 5 minutes of baking to get a
golden brown crust.

Source: "The Clay-Pot Cookbook" by Georgia MacLeod Sales and Grover
Sales

NOTE: This is the best bread I've made in a long time. High loaf,
light, and with a very crisp crust and moist inside. Pine nuts don't
add much to it and could be left out. Had a problem with it sticking
to the pot (my clay pot has a semi-glazed bottom which I greased very
lightly with shortening, and it still stuck in spots).

