Title: HERBED ROAST LEG OF LAMB WITH ROAST ONIONS &
Categories: Meats
Yield: 8 Servings
1/3 c  Mustard, Dijon
1 lg Garlic clove; chopped
1 tb Rosemary, fresh, finely
-chopped
1 tb Thyme, fresh; finely
-chopped
1 1/2 tb Soy sauce
1/4 c  Wine, dry white
4 tb Olive oil
8 lb Lamb, leg of
2 lb Onion, small white
2 lg Carrot
2 1/2 lb Potato
MMMMM---------------------------GRAVY--------------------------------
1 c  Wine, dry red
2 c  Broth, beef
2 tb Butter, unsalted;
-softened
3 tb Flour, all purpose
*use small red or white potatoes.

My note: I also insert slices of garlic (medium cloves, quartered)
into slits made in the roast at about 3 inch intervals with a sharp
knife. This adds a wonderful subtle flavor to the meat.

Mince the garlic clove and mash to a paste with 1/4 tsp salt. Blanch
onions in boiling water 2 minutes, drain, and peel. Cut carrots into
1/2" pieces. Cook potatoes in boiling salted water for 10 minutes,
drain, and halve.

In a small bowl whisk together the mustard, the garlic paste, the
chopped rosemary, the chopped thyme, the soy sauce, the white wine,
and salt & pepper to taste, add 2 Tbsp of the oil in a stream,
whisking, and whisk the mixture until it is combined well. Brush the
lamb generously on all sides with some of the mustard mixture, and
let it marinate in a lightly oiled roasting pan, covered and chilled,
for at least 6 hours or overnight.

Let the lamb come to room temperature and brush it with the reserved
mustard mixture. In a bowl toss the onions with 1 Tbsp of the
remaining oil, add the onions and carrots to the pan, and roast them
with the lamb in the middle of a preheated 450 degree F. oven for 15
minutes. In the bowl toss the potatoes with the remaining 1 Tbsp oil
and add them to the pan. Reduce the heat to 350 degrees F. and roast
the lamb and vegetables, stirring the vegetables occasionally, for 1
hour and 15 minutes, or until a meat thermometer registers 140
degrees F. for medium-rare meat. Transfer the lamb to a large platter
and let it stand for 20 minutes. Transfer the onions and the potatoes
with a slotted spoon to a serving dish, leaving the carrots in the
pan, and keep them warm, covered.

Make the gravy: Pour off the fat from the pan, add the wine, and
deglaze the pan over moderately high heat, scraping up the brown
bits. Boil the mixture until it is reduced by half and strain it
through a sieve into a saucepan, pressing hard on the carrots.

*** My note: I stopped at this point, adding juices from the lamb
platter, and used the resulting sauce for the meat--it was delicious!

Add the broth and bring the mixture to a boil. In a small bowl knead
together the butter and the flour until the mixture is combined well
and add the mixture to the gravy a little at a time, whisking. Add
any juices that have accumulated on the platter and salt and pepper
to taste and simmer the gravy, whisking occasionally, for 3 minutes,
or until it is thickened.

Spoon some of the potatoes and onions around the lamb, and garnish
the lamb with fresh thyme and rosemary sprigs. Serve the lamb,
carved, with the gravy.

Source: Bon Appetit On 27 JUN 95
230306 ~0600

