Title: HERB CRUSTED RACK OF LAMB WITH ROASTED
Categories:
Yield: 4 Servings
1/2 c  Italian parsley
1/4 c  Chives
2 tb Rosemary
2 tb Sage
2 tb Savory
2 tb Thyme
2 tb Garlic puree
1 c  Soft butter
1/2 c  Bread crumbs
Salt to taste
Pepper to taste
For the pepper ragout:
1    Red bell pepper
1    Yellow bell pepper
2    Anaheim chiles
1    Fresh pimento
1    Red onion
8    Garlic cloves
2 tb Olive oil
1 ts Lavender
Salt to taste
Pepper to taste
2 tb Wild honey
2 tb Basil leaves
For the socca nicoise:
1 c  Ground chick pea flour
2 1/2 c  Whole milk
2 tb Olive oil
1    Egg
Salt to taste
Pepper to taste
For the tapenade:
1 c  Pitted late harvest olives
1    Fillet anchovy
2 tb Basil
1 ts Sherry vinegar
1/2 c  Extra virgin olive oil --
(1/2 to 3/4)
Milled pepper to taste
For the lamb:
2    Eighteen ounce racks of
Lamb
Salt to taste
Pepper to taste
Preparation of the herb crust: Chop all picked herbs and blend in a
food processor with other ingredients until it is smooth and
homogenous. Reserve in refrigerator or freezer.

Preparation of the pepper ragout: Preheat oven to 300 degrees.
Prelight a mesquite grill and let embers cool. Place all the peppers,
chiles, and onion on the grill and char well. Place the garlic cloves
in a pouch of aluminum foil and roast over coals until lightly golden
brown. Once peppers are charred, place them in a bowl, cover with
plastic wrap and allow to steam for ten minutes. Remove the skins
from the chiles, pepper and onion and cut into large chunks, after
removing any seeds or white membranes. Cut the garlic into large
chunks and mix with peppers and onions.

In a heavy sauce pot, add the olive oil and heat over a medium fire
and sweat the pepper mixture. Add the lavender, salt, pepper and
honey and bake, uncovered in oven until the liquid from the peppers
has reduced. Remove and cool to room temperature, adjust seasonings
and add whole leaves of basil.

Preparation of the socca nicoise: Place flour in a mixing bowl and
add the milk in a steady stream until smooth. Add olive oil, egg,
salt and pepper. Strain and let rest for two hours in refrigerator.
Consistency should be similar to crepe batter. Preparation of the
tapenade: Puree all ingredients in a food processor, not too smooth
but should remain chunky. Let sit at room temperature.

Presentation: Preheat oven to 450 degrees. Heat a heavy saute pan and
add a drizzle of olive oil over high heat. Get oil to smoking point.
Season the racks of lamb and sear well on all sides, place in oven
and cook for fifteen minutes until rare. Cut a piece of the herb
butter and place on top of the rack of lamb. Put back in oven and
cook another five to seven minutes until medium rare and crust is
golden brown. Remove from oven and allow to rest for five minutes.
Cut rack in half, between the chops and reserve warm. In a small
nonstick pan, heat the olive oil over medium to high heat and add the
chick pea batter. Color well on both sides. Place on a warm plate and
make as many as you would like. Place a small pile of the roasted
pepper ragout in the center, place the rack of lamb on top and
drizzle around with tapenade. Garnish with fried Italian parsley.
Serve immediately.

From: Minnie@juno.Com (Louise M Mccartndate: Wed, 23 Oct 1996
14:32:14 Pst

