Title: HOLIDAY DATE BREAD
Categories: Breads, Entertain
Yield: 6 Servings
6 1/2    To 7 - cups all-purpose
-flour
2 pk (8 oz) chopped dates, pitted
-and finely snipped
1 c  Wheat germ
1/4 c  Sugar
2    Eggs, at room temperature
2 pk Active dry yeast
2 ts Salt
1 c  Milk
1 c  Orange juice
2 ts Cinnamon
1 c  Water
1    Egg white, lightly beaten
-with 1 Tbsp water
1/2 c  Butter or margarine
Non-stick cooking spray

In a large bowl, mix 2 cups flour, 1/3 cup wheat germ, sugar, yeast
and salt. Heat milk, water, butter and 1/2 cup dates to 125 to 130
degrees. Add to dry ingredients; beat 2 minutes at medium speed of
electric mixer. Add eggs and 1/2 cup flour. Beat at high speed 2
minutes. Stir in enough additional flour to make a stiff dough. Knead
on lightly floured surface until smooth, about 8 to 10 minutes. Place
in bowl coated with non-stick cooking spray. Spray top of dough with
cooking spray. Cover; let rise in warm, draft-free place until
doubled in size, about 1 hour.

In saucepan, combine remaining dates, orange juice and cinnamon. Cook
and stir over medium heat until thickened, about 10 minutes. Remove
from heat and stir in remaining wheat germ; cool. Reserve.

Punch down. Shape as desired (directions follow). Spray shaped dough
with cooking spray. Let rise in warm, draft-free place until doubled
in size, about 30 to 60 minutes.

Brush with egg white. Bake @ 375 degrees (45 to 50 minutes for loaves
12 to 15 minutes for twists 25 minutes for cornucopia or until done).
If needed, cover with foil during last 5 to 10 minutes to prevent
over browning. Remove from pans; cool on wire racks.

ALTERNATE SHAPES

Twin Loaf

Divide dough into 4 equal pieces. Roll each to 8 x 9". Spread each
with 1/4 filling. Roll up tightly from long side as for jelly roll;
pinch seams and ends to seal. Place two halves, side by side, seam
sides down in 9 x 5 x 3" loaf pan coated with cooking spray. Repeat
with remaining two loaves. If desired, sprinkle with additional wheat
germ before baking.

Breakfast Twists

Divide dough into four equal parts. Roll one piece to 8 x 20". Spread
1/4 filling on dough to within 1/2" of edges. Lift 8" end and fold
over 1/3 of dough; lift other 8" end and fold over opposite 1/3 dough
to enclose filling. Starting from folded side, cut into 8 strips.
Twist each strip at middle and place on baking sheet coated with
cooking spray. Repeat with reserved dough and filling. To serve, top
with confectioners sugar, if desired.

Cornucopia

Divide dough into 8 equal pieces. Reserve 4 pieces and 1/2 filling for
second cornucopia. Roll one piece to 3 x 10". Spread about 1/4 cup
filling in 1" strip down center of dough. Pull up edges and pinch
seams and ends to seal. Place on baking sheet coated with cooking
spray. Turn up 4" of end to make "J" shape. Roll remaining three
pieces of dough to 3 x 20"Spread about 1/4 cup filling in 1" strip
down center of each piece. Pull up edges and pinch seams and ends to
seal. Coil end of one rope on baking sheet above top of "J" to make
end of basket; then wrap over and under "J". Continue wrapping
remaining ropes around "J" making each turn slightly looser to
enlarge basket. Repeat with reserved dough and filling. To serve,
garnish with dried fruits and nuts, if desired.

