Title: HOLIDAY TURKEY
Categories: Turkey
Yield: 12 Servings
1    Turkey
Margarine; room temperature
Salt, kosher
Pepper
2 lg Onion; quartered
1    Celery stalk; w/leaves
2 c  ;Water
Flour
;Water
Cut the celery in large pieces.  Mix some flour and water together
and make a thick, creamy "kid's paste," then water it down a bit.
Thaw any size turkey.  Wash it down real good in the sink and don't
be ashamed of scrubbing her down good.  Make the old girl sing like
Ethel Merman. My kids lived for this event each year as all my
turkeys sang in the shower as if their forthcoming debut was at Town
Hall. This bird you're washing is the star of the show and should be
treated as such. You'll have more fun watching the turkey bathe if
you select a noted singer. I've cooked several Ethel Merman turkeys
and a Kate Smith or two and I remember one Billie Holiday bird.

Slightly dry Ethel with paper towels.  Grab a handful of margarine
and rub it between your hands.  Now rub the star as if she's getting
her final massage.  Make sure you get plenty of margarine rubbed into
the bird. Now, with margarine still on your hands, rub a palmful of
salt between your hands and apply this to the bird as you did the
margarine, making sure plenty of salt gets rubbed in. You need not
worry about too much salt or margarine and a couple of handfuls may
be required.

Lightly pepper the bird, but don't rub this in.  Dip your hands in the
creamy paste created from the watered down "kid's paste" of flour and
water.  Dab this lightly on the skin all over, careful not to go over
areas already covered with paste.   This is not a crust, but a more
delicious sealer.

Place turkey in a large roasting pan.  Place quartered onions under
wings behind drumsticks, in the cavity, and some on the bottom of the
pan to cook in the broth that you'll need later on. Now place the
celery along- side the onion and leave the celery tops in the bottom
of the pan to cook in the broth.

Pour two cups of cool water in the bottom of the pan. DO NOT pour
over the turkey.  Preheat oven to 350 F. and let the bird cook slow.
Cover and cook the turkey for at least a couple of hours or until the
meat turns brown and falls apart at the limbs.  This is a tender
turkey and will not hold up to carving at the table. Prepare your
turkey platter on the kitchen cabinet as this bird will fall apart if
you try and lift it. After the turkey has cooked for at least 1-1/2
hours, baste the turkey every 30 minutes. Drain off broth and reserve
to make the stuffing.

-- Aunt Pearl's Cookbook
Joe Sears Submitted By SAM WARING
<SAM.WARING@382-91-12.IMA.INFOMAIL.COM>  On   MON, 20 NOV 1995 145733
GMT

