Title: HOLIDAY PUDDING SURPRISE
Categories: Desserts
Yield: 12 Servings
2 tb Sugar
2 ts HERSHEY'S Cocoa
6 tb Butter or margarine
-- softened
3/4 c  Sugar
2    Eggs
1/2 c  HERSHEY'S Cocoa
1 1/2 c  All-purpose flour
1 ts Baking soda
1/2 ts Salt
1/4 c  Milk
21 oz Canned cherry pie filling
1 1/4 c  Coarsely chopped walnuts
Powdered sugar
Walnut halves
Additional cherries
MMMMM--------------------CRIMSON CHERRY SAUCE-------------------------
21 oz Cherry pie filling
1/4 c  Kirsch
2 tb Sugar
Generously grease 2 to 2-1/2-quart pudding mold with tight-fitting
lid or heat-proof bowl. Combine 2 tablespoons sugar and 2 teaspoons
cocoa. Coat mold or bowl with cocoa mixture; tap out excess. In
separate large bowl, beat butter and 3/4 cup sugar until fluffy. Beat
in eggs. Add 1/2 cup cocoa; beat until smooth and well blended. Stir
together flour, baking soda and salt; add to butter mixture
alternately with milk until well blended. With rubber spatula, fold
in cherry pie filling and walnuts to blend thoroughly. Spoon batter
into prepared mold; cover.* Set mold on rack in deep pot; add boiling
water to come halfway up side of mold. Cover pot; steam 2 to 2-1/2
hours or until pick inserted in center comes out clean. (Add boiling
water as needed to maintain water level.) Remove mold from pot; cool
15 to 20 minutes. Carefully loosen and invert onto serving plate.
Dust top with powdered sugar. Garnish with wreath of walnut halves
and drained cherries. Serve warm, cut in wedges, with CRIMSON CHERRY
SAUCE. 12 servings.

* If using bowl, cover top of bowl with double thickness of lightly
greased foil. Fold down edges of foil around rim; tie snugly with
string.

CRIMSON CHERRY SAUCE:

In small saucepan,stir together 1 can (21 oz.) cherry pie filling,
1/4 cup kirsch (cherry-flavored liqueur)** and 2 tablespoons sugar.
Cook over medium heat, stirring constantly, just until simmering.
Serve warm. About 2-1/4 cups sauce.

**1/4 cup water and 1/2 teaspoon almond extract may be used in place
of kirsch; omit sugar. Proceed as above.

NOTE: Pudding can be made up to 1 month in advance. Remove from mold;
cool completely. Wrap securely; freeze. To reheat, thaw pudding;
remove from wrapping and return to mold. Cover; steam as above for 1
hour or until thoroughly heated.

Copyright 1995 Hershey Foods Corporation. Recipe may be reprinted
courtesy of the Hershey Kitchens.

[Meal-Master recipe format courtesy of Karen Mintzias]

