Title: HOMEMADE CHOCOLATES (LAURA SECORD TYPE)
Categories: Candies, Chocolate
Yield: 1 Servings
3 lb Icing Sugar
1 cn Eagle Brand sweetened
1 x  Evaporated Milk
1 x  Butter or Margarine
1 x  Parafin Wax (Parawax)
1 x  Semi-sweet Baking Chocolate
1 x  Food Coloring
1 x  Artifical Food Flavors
The above ingredients are approximate quantities only!!! For every
cup of icing sugar you use, mix in approximately 1 teaspoon of
softened butter or margarine. Then slowly mix in enough of the
evaporated milk to make the mixture of a consistency such that you
can form a ball with it. (Mixing with the hands is the easiest way).
Next seperate the mixture into as many parts (3 or 4) as you want
different flavored chocolates. Then slowly knead in the desired
flavoring and food color you want in each different part. Now mold
the resultant mixture into the desired shapes and sizes you want your
chocolates to be. Now melt in a double boiler (or microwave) two
parts semi-sweet chocolate to one part parawax. Remove from heat.
Immediately, using a tooth pick, pick up each shape created above and
dip it into the chocolate mixture to coat them. Then put them on a
piece of wax paper until the chocolate coating is set. As the
chocolate mixture cools and thickens, reheat it and continue. If you
run out of chocolate mixture, simply add more chocolate and parawax
in the proportions listed above.

Note: Suggested flavors and colors:
- Maple flavor with no coloring
- Mint flavor with green coloring
- Lemon flavor with yellow coloring
- Orange flavor with orange coloring
- Almond Flavoring with red coloring (small amount to create
pink)

Variations:
- With the Maple flavoring, you can bury a piece of pecan or walnut
inside the candy before dipping it into the chocolate
- With the almond flavoring, bury a marachino cherry inside the
candy
before dipping it in the chocolate. Add a drop of cherry juice
with it
to prevent the cherry being too dry.
- Use the same recipe to make Easter eggs, bunnies etc. Ex. For
Easter
eggs, make a center part of one color and flavor and wrap it in
another color and flavor before dipping.

Note: Parawax must be used with the chocolate to create a consistency
that
will stick to your candy and not your fingers when set. It is
not
harmful and is used commercially.

