Title: DIPS INFO (5 OF 9)
Categories: Dips, Info/tips
Yield: 1 Servings
1 x  DIPS Dictionary follows in t
1 x  (This is Part 5 of 9)
ELEPHANT GARLIC CHIPS: Peel 6 elephant garlic cloves and slice
lengthwise as thinly as possible (about 12 slices per clove). Fill a
heavy skillet halfway with vegetable oil or melted vegetable
shortening and cook over medium heat until the oil crackles. Put the
garlic slices into the hot oil, a few at a time, and watch closely.
As soon as the other edges begin to turn brown (about 15 seconds),
turn the chips over. Fry each chip until the other side turns brown,
(not black--about 15 seconds). Be careful as the second side cooks
very quickly. 6 Cloves make enough chips for about 1 cup of dip
BUTTERFLAKE BISCUIT CHIPS: Prepare refrigerated butterflake biscuit
mix according to the package directions and let the biscuits cool
thoroughly. (Leftover butterflake biscuits can be used or biscuits
can be made the night before and stored in a zip-lock bag). Separate
the flaky layers of each biscuit and place on an ungreased cookie
sheet. Bake at 250 degrees F. for 25 to 30 minutes or until crisp.
let sit for about 45 minutes before serving. One package of biscuit
mix makes 5 to 6 dozen chips, or enough for about 2 cups of dip.
NOODLE CHIPS: Boil wide egg noodles in water according to the package
directions. When cooked, strain immediately and run under cold water.
Let noodles cool and dry on paper towels.  Cut each noodle into
3-inch lengths. Fill a heavy skillet halfway with vegetable oil or
melted vegetable shortening and cook over medium heat until the oil
crackles.  Put the noodles in the hot oil a few at a time and fry
until golden (about 1 minute). Remove from the pan and drain on paper
towels. One 8-oz package of noodles makes about 120 chips, or enough
for about 2 cups of dip. POTATO SKINS: Scrub 6 to 7 medium baking
potatoes (about 2 pounds) under cold-running water and dry. Bake at
400 degrees F. for 40 minutes. Remove and let cool.  Cut each potato
in half lengthwise and scoop out the meat, leaving about a quarter
inch of potato lining each skin.  Reserve the scooped out insides for
making miniature potato pancakes (see the recipe in this file). Cut
each hollowed-out potato skin into quarters (yielding 4 chips per
skin, or 8 chips from each whole potato). Brush with melted butter on
both sides. Bake at 425 degrees F. for 15 minutes or until crisp. 6
potatoes make enough potato skins for about 2 cups of dip.
************ * CRACKERS * ************ While there are numerous
advantages to homemade chips, crackers are another tory entirely.
Crackers come packaged in just about any flavor, shape or size you'll
ever want and the truth is that commercial preparation of crackers
usually yields better results. But there are those of you that have
shirtsleeves that just wont stay rolled down so here is a recipe for
a tasty homemade onion cracker. ONION CRACKERS: 2 Cups Unbleached
All-Purpose Flour
1    Tsp  Baking Soda
1/8    Tsp  Salt
2    Tbl  Vegetable Shortening
1/2    Cup  Minced Onion
1 1/2    Tsp  Celery Seed 3/4 Tsp Crushed Red Pepper Flakes
2/3    Cup  Water (Approximately) In a food processor fitted with
a metal blade, combine the flour baking soda and salt, blending well.
Add the shortening all at once and process until the mixture becomes
coarse meal. Add the onion, celery seed, and red pepper flakes.
Drizzle the water through the feed tube a little at a time, using
only as much water as necessary for the batter to form a ball (the
amount of water will vary with every batch). Divide the dough in half
and on a well-floured board, roll out each half to 1/8-inch
thickness.  Cut into squares or rectangles with a knife or pizza
cutter. Place the crackers on a lightly greased cookie sheet,
piercing each cracker 3 times with a fork. Repeat for the remaining
half of the dough.  Bake at 350 degrees F. for 20 to 25 minutes or
until medium brown. Cool on a wire rack. Makes 50 to 60 crackers or
enough for about 2 cups of dip.

