Title: DO-IT-YOURSELF "GOOFY PUTTY" BY STEVEN SPANGL
Categories: Household
Yield: 1 Batch
Elmer's White Glue (Do NOT
-substitute)
1 tb Borax
Food Coloring
1 c  Water
Empty plastic soda bottle
-with cap
Zipper-lock bag (quart size)
Making The Borax Water:  Borax is a type of powder soap that is
available in most grocery stores.  Add 1 tablespoon Borax powder to 1
cup of Water. Stir until most of the powder dissolves. Store the
Borax Water in a jar or bottle, and label the container "BORAX &
WATER MIXTURE". Remember that one cup of Borax water will make many
batches of "Goofy Putty".

Preparing The Glue:  Measure 1 tablespoon of Elmer's Glue into a
zipper-lock bag.  Add 1 teaspoon of plain water to the bag and mix.
The additional water makes the glue flow better. Add a drop of food
coloring to spice up the experiment.

Making Goofy Putty:  Add 1 tablespoon of Borax Water to the bag of
watered-down glue.  Seal the bag and squeeze for 2 minutes in order to
thoroughly mix the liquids. Notice that the liquids are starting to
form a putty-like substance.  Remove the putty from the bag and
continue to squeeze.  Try to explain how and why the glue changed.

How Does It Work:  The mixture of Elmer's Glue with Borax and water
produces a putty-like material called a polymer. In simplest terms, a
polymer is a long chain of molecules. As a model for these chains of
molecules, picture in your mind strands of cooked spaghetti. If the
polymer chains slide past each other easily, then the substance acts
like a liquid because the molecules flow.  If the molecules hook
together at a few places along the strand, then the substance behaves
like a rubbery solid called an elastomer.  Borax is the chemical that
is responsible for hooking the glue's molecules together to form the
putty-like material.

There are several different methods for making this putty-like
material. Some recipes call for liquid starch instead of Borax Soap.
Either way, when you make "Goofy Putty" you are learning about some
of the fun an unusual properties of polymers.

SAFETY PRECAUTIONS WITH CHEMICALS Although these substances are not
considered hazardous, you should treat all chemicals with care and
wash your hands after handling. Do not taste or eat any of the
materials described in these activities. Do not pour any of these
experiments down the sink.  Do not allow any GOOFY PUTTY to remain on
clothing, upholstery, wood surfaces, or carpet. These substances may
stain and damage the surface.  Clean up any spill immediately.

Source: Mad Scientist 1995 Girl Scout Day Camp

