Title: DOBOS CAKE
Categories: Dessert, Cakes, Slovak
Yield: 10 Servings
Round Robin Exchange
6 ea eggs, separated 1 1/4 c sugar 2 T lemon juice 3/4 c sifted pastry
flour 1/4 c cornstarch 1/2 ts salt Beat egg yolks until creamy and
light, gradually add sugar, beating well after each addition and
adding with the last portion 1 Tablespoon lemon juice. Mix and sift
flour, cornstarch and salt, add half of it to the egg yolk mixture,
stirring gently till blended and adding while blending another
Tablespooon of lemon juice. Fold in stiffly beaten egg whites
alternately with remaining flour mixture, a little at a time stirring
gently . Butter and line an 8-inch spring mold with waxed paper. Turn
in a few tablespoons of batter at a time spreading evenly over bottom
of mold, bake in a hot oven (450-F) 5 to 6 minutes or until very
lightly browned. Remove cake to cake rack and repeat process until
batter is entirely used. You get 8 layers. When cool put 1 layer
aside, spread the following filling between and on top of remaining
seven layers, pressing the layers firmly , but gently together, then
chill. CHOCOLATE FILLING FOR DOBOS CAKE 4 squares unsweetened
chocolate 2/3 cup granulated sugar 4 egg yolks 1 1/4 cups sweet
butter 1/2 cup heavy cream 2 or 3 drops coffee extract Melt chocolate
over hot water , then add little a time to slightly beaten yolks
combined with cream and sugar, stirring briskly after each addition.
Cook over hot water 5-6 minutes, stirring constantly until thick and
smooth. Cream butter with coffee extract until light, then add to
chocolate mixture a tablespoon at a time, beating and stirring at the
same time after each addition until blended. Remove from hot water
and cool until of spreading consistency . Icing for Dobos Cake Melt
3/4 cup of powdered sugar over very low heat until of a light caramel
color, stirring constantly ; then pour quickly onto remaining cake
layer, spreading evenly and working rapidly . Place this layer on top
of the cake, pressing firmly .  Spread remaining chocolate filling on
sides of cake and if desired, dust very lightly with chopped nuts.
Cool, and keep in a cool place for at least 24 hours before slicing.
This cake will keep a week in a refrigerator. Submitted by Mary
Vevurka, Chicago IL From: Slovak-American Cookbook

