Title: DOG BISQUITS II
Categories: Misc
Yield: 24 Servings
1    Envelope dry yeast
1/4 c  Warm water
1 pn Sugar
3 1/2 c  All-purpose flour
2 c  Whole wheat flour
2 c  Cracked wheat;  -=OR=-
1 c  -Cornmeal
1 c  Rye flour
1/2 c  Nonfat dry milk
4 ts Kelp powder
4 c  Beef or chicken broth
MMMMM---------------------------GLAZE--------------------------------
1 lg Egg
2 tb Milk
Place 2 oven racks in the upper & lower thirds of the oven. Preheat
oven to 300F.  Sprinkle the dry yeast or crumble the compressed yeast
over the water (110F if dry, 100F if compressed). Add the pinch of
sugar & allow yeast to sit in a draft-free spot for 10-20 min.

The mixture should be full of bubbles.  If not, the yeast is too old
to be useful.  Stir well to dissolve the yeast. In a large bowl,
place all the dry ingredients & stir well to blend them. Add the
yeast mixture & 3 c broth.  Using your hands, in the bowl, mix to
form the dough, adding more broth if needed to make the dough smooth
& supple. Half a batch at a time, knead the dough briefly on a
lightly floured counter. (Keep the 2nd batch of dough covered with a
moist towel while shaping and cutting the first.) Roll out the dough
into 18 x 13 x 1/4-inch rectangle. Cut into desired shapes using 3
1/2 inch bone cutter or 2 1/2 inch cookie cutter. Reroll the scraps.
Repeat procedure with remaining dough. For an attractive shine,
lightly beat together the egg and the milk.

Brush the glaze on the cookies. Bake for 45 - 60 minutes or until
brown & firm.  For even baking, rotate the cookie sheets from top to
bottom 3/4 of the way thru the baking period. Use a small, angled
metal spatula to transfer the cookies to wire racks to cool
completely. Store in an airtight container at room temp. -cracked
wheat & kelp are available at most health food stores -Use 2 cups of
bran cereal (not flakes) in place of the cracked wheat, if desired.
If your dog is large, make larger cookies Allow the cookie sheets to
cool completely before using for the next batch Distribute cookies
evenly around sheet; avoid crowding or

