Title: DORO WAT (ETHIOPIAN STEW)
Categories: Ethiopia, Chicken, Ceideburg 2
Yield: 8 Servings
2    To 3 lbs chicken
9 oz Tomato paste
3    Sticks butter
10    Hard boiled eggs slightly
-scored
3 lb Onion fine chopped
2 lg Cloves garlic minced (or 2
-tsp. powder)
1 ts Ground black pepper
3    Heaping tb berbere
Snagged this from over on the Rime Cuisine echo.  I'm in the process
of making it even as I type and it's *real* good so far. A sweet,
rich, hot stew.  The sweetness comes from the huge amount of onions
used. The richness from the butter (it definitely ain't health
food!). The heat from the "berbere"++a seasoning mix of spices based
on cayenne peppers. Made in the proportions below it's most
definitely hot, but nothing someone who can handle jalapenos can't
handle. The heat and spiciness could be handled by reducing the
amount of berbere or even better making the berbere with a lesser
amount of cayenne so you retain the other spices. The effect is kinda
off in the general direction of a Mexican Mole. You mop it up with
Injera, a flat bread++I'm using pita bread and flour tortillas
instead. Not sure how acceptable that is, but I didn't feel like
making Injera. Will post a recipe for Injera tomorrow.

If you haven't tasted Ethiopian food, you'll be surprised at the
unique flavor of Doro Wat.  Even if you have a chance to sample it at
one of the growing numbers of Ethiopian restaurants in large cities.
It's a dish worth trying at home.  To eat it the Ethiopian way, pass
around a tray of injera (flat bread), and place a large platter of
wat in the center of the table so everyone can reach it.  Tear off
pieces of injera with your right hand. Fold the bread around bits of
stew and eat, without touching you fingers to either the stew or your
mouth (a trick that requires practice!).

Remove skin from the chicken and score each piece slightly with a
knife so the sauce can penetrate.

In a large stew pot, melt the butter, then saute the onions and
garlic for five minutes.  Add berbere, followed by tomato paste,
stirring occasionally while the mixture simmers about 15 minutes. A
piece at a time, stir in the chicken, coating well with the sauce.

Continue to simmer, adding enough water to maintain the consistency
of a thick soup.  When chicken is half done, after about 20 minutes,
put in the hard boiled eggs. Cover and continue cooking until the
chicken is tender.

The dish is ready when the oil has risen to the top. Add black pepper
and let sit until slightly cooled.

Serve with injera.

Makes 8 to 10 servings.

From "The Africa News Cookbook-African Cooking for the Western
Kitchen". Lots of good soups, stews and the like are in it.

Posted by Stephen Ceideberg; June 11 1991.

