Title: BAKER'S CRAFT DOUGH
Categories: Household, Better
Yield: 1 Servings
MMMMM---------------------CHEAPER AND BETTER--------------------------
4 c  Flour
1 c  Salt
1 1/2 c  Water
MMMMM--------------------OPTIONAL INGREDIENTS-------------------------
1 tb Powdered alum
1 tb Cooking oil
1/4 ts Food coloring
1/4 ts Oil of cloves or peppermint
-extract
MMMMM-----------------------FOR FINISHING----------------------------
Acrylic paints
Spray acrylic fixative
Clear or orange shellac
** Pliable and simple to make and use. Powdered alum retards spoilage
and cooking oil makes dough a little easier to work with.

Mix together flour, salt, and alum if you are using it. With a big
wooden spoon, slowly stir in the water, oil, coloring, and scent.
Keep mixing until dough follows the spoon around the bowl and
thenknead with your hands until smooth. The initial kneading will
only take a minute or two to get the dough going and to make it
pliable. After that, you will knead as you work with smaller pieces
and the dough will stay soft. Store dough in the refrigerator until
ready to use. It will remain in good condition for up to 4 wks. Let
it warm to room temp before using.

To Use: Generously flour work surface and pinch off just enough dough
to mold with. Leave the rest in a plastic bag until needed. Fill a sm
bowl with water to use as glue when you want to stick 2 pieces
together. When you have made an item you want to keep, place it on a
floured cookie sheet. Bake 250F, at least 1 hr. Baking time varies
considerably depending on the thickness of the object. It's a good
idea to check for doneness by inserting a toothpick into the thickest
part of the item. If you think your ornaments are getting too brown,
cover them with foil, turn down the oven and compensate by cooking a
bit longer. After the item is completely dry, you can paint it with
ascrylic paints and then either paint it wiht shellac or spray it
with several coats of acrylic fixative.

Ideas: Successfully used for homey-looking Christmas ornaments. Do
children's hand-prints. 1/2" thick layer of dough. Force dough
through a garlic press for a bird's nest, hair, animal fur,
spaghetti. Just remember to glue the strand together as you go with
water. Add teeny little eggs to a nest or roll out meatballs for a
bowl of spaghetti. Make a bread basket, bagel, or pretend muffins.
Bread basket: Roll out and cut thick strips of dough. Drape several,
close together across an inverted, heavily floured loaf pan or baking
dish. Weave strips in the opposite direction through the original
ones. Create a lattice work design and finish off edges as if you
were creating a fancy pie. Bake your creation, pan and all, in the
oven and lift the baske off the pan when it is completely cool.

Hints: To add a hanger to Christmas ornaments: Push a paper clip
almost all athe way into the top of the ornament. To create a hole
for threading a pendant, take a cocktail straw and carefully drill
out the hole just before you are ready to bake. 40 oz

Big savings. Comparison is to modeling clay. No good for ornaments;
they puff when baked. Typed by Sherilyn Schamber

