Title: BAKED BRIE IN PUFF PASTRY WITH CRANBERRY SAUC
Categories: Appetizers
Yield: 10 Servings
MMMMM----------------------CRANBERRY SAUCE---------------------------
1 lb Fresh or thawed frozen
-cranberries (about 4 1/2
-cups), picked over
1/4 c  Red-currant jelly
3/4 c  Demerara or light brown
-sugar
2 tb Fresh lemon juice
2 tb Kirsch or brandy
MMMMM--------------------------PASTRIES-------------------------------
1    Wheel (2-pound) firm Brie
-(rind intact), chilled
2 pk (17 1/4-ounce) frozen puff
-pastry sheets (4 pastry
-sheets), thawed
1 lg Egg, beaten lightly
Make cranberry sauce: In a large saucepan simmer sauce ingredients,
stirring frequently, until thickened, about 20 minutes. Transfer
sauce to a heatproof bowl and cool. Cranberry sauce may be made 1
week ahead and chilled, covered.

Put Brie on a work surface and with a 2-inch round cutter cut out 10
rounds, pressing scraps together as necessary. Press thumb deep into
middle of each round to form a small indentation and fill each cavity
with about 1 teaspoon cranberry sauce, reserving remaining sauce.
Chill cheese rounds on a baking sheet.

On a lightly floured surface unfold 1 pastry sheet (do not roll out
pastry) and with a 2 1/4-inch round cutter cut out 10 rounds.
Transfer pastry rounds to another baking sheet and chill. Unfold
remaining 3 pastry sheets and with a 5-inch round cutter cut out 10
rounds (there will be pastry left over). Transfer pastry rounds to a
third baking sheet and chill.

On cleaned work surface arrange 1 large pastry round and brush top
with some egg. Center 1 cheese round on pastry and wrap pastry up
over cheese to form a 3/4-inch border on top of cheese. Brush border
with some remaining egg and top with 1 small pastry round, pressing
edges of dough together gently but firmly to seal. Brush round with
some remaining egg and chill on a baking sheet. Make more wrapped
Brie with remaining pastry and cheese rounds in same manner. Chill
each wrapped Brie, uncovered, at least 30 minutes. Brie may be
prepared up to this point 1 day ahead and chilled, covered loosely.

Preheat oven to 425 F. and lightly grease another baking sheet.

Bake Brie on baking sheet in middle of oven 15 minutes, or until
puffed and golden. Cool Brie on baking sheet on a rack about 10
minutes.

Serve Brie warm with reserved cranberry sauce.

Serves 10 as a first course

From Cody's Wine Bar & Restaurant Windsor, England Gourmet December
1995    You Asked For It

