Title: BAKED BEANS (USDA)
Categories: Freezes wel, Usda
Yield: 24 Servings
3 1/2 lb Dry navy (pea) beans
1 1/2 ga Boiling water
1 lb Salt pork -- thinly sliced
2 tb Salt
2 c  Bean cooking liquid
2 c  Dark molasses
1 c  Packed brown sugar
4 ts Dry mustard
2 ts Instant minced onion
Line four 8x8-inch baking pans with heat-resistant freezer wrap. Allow
enough extra wrap to fold over top. Use one pan for each six servings
or one-fourth of the recipe. Do not line pans for food to be served
without freezing.

Add beans to boiling water; return to boiling.  Boil beans 2 minutes;
then soak beans 1 hour (or overnight, if preferred).

Add salt pork and salt to beans.  Cook beans slowly until tender,
about 1 1/2 hours.  Drain; save 2 cups cooking liquid. Mix bean
cooking liquid, molasses, brown sugar, mustard, and onion. Pour over
beans. Mix gently. Pour one-fourth of mixture into each baking dish.

TO SERVE WITHOUT FREEZING:  Preheat oven to 350B0 F. (moderate). Bake
1 hour or until beans are lightly browned and sauce is desired
consistency.

TO FREEZE:  Cool for 30 minutes at room temperature. Complete
wrapping by pulling paper up over top of food. Put edges of wrap
together and fold several times so paper lies directly on top of
food. Fold ends of freezer wrap over the top and seal with freezer
tape. Label with name of food, date of freezing, and last date the
food should be used for best eating quality (about 6 months).  Freeze
immediately for 10 to 12 hours before removing packages from the pans.

TO HEAT FROZEN FOOD:  Preheat oven to 350B0 F. (moderatae). Remove
freezer wrap.  Place food in baking pan. Bake 1 1/2 hours or until
center is hot.

~ - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

NOTES : This recipe is for 24 servings (about 3/4 cup each).
Directions are given for dividing the prepared food into four parts
of six servings each. One part may be completely cooked and served at
the time of preparation. The remaining parts may be frozen.

"Freezing Combination Main Dishes"  by Meredith Robinson and Lois
Fulton (Consumer and Food Economics Institute, Agriculture Research
Service) USDA Home and Garden Bulletin No. 40, 1973 (Stock Number
0100-02712). MasterCook electronic format by Rosie Winters. Recipe By
: Freezing Combination Main Dishes (Robinson & Fulton, 1973)

