Title: BAKED CRAB~ PEPPER & SPINACH FRITTATA
Categories: New, Text, Import
1 c  Onion -- minced
Yield: 1 Servings
2 ts Garlic -- minced
2 TB Olive Oil
1 Lb Fresh Spinach (1 Lg.Bunch)
wash, stems removed
Salt And Freshly Ground
Pepper
Freshly Grated Nutmeg
:
:
:
:
2 md Red Bell Peppers
1 TB Butter -- softened
6 lg Eggs
1 TB Minced Fresh Herbs
2/3 c  Asiago Or Parmesan Cheese --
coarsely grated
:
8 oz Dungeness Crab Meat -- well
picked over
:

Saute the onion and garlic in olive oil over moderate heat until soft
but not brown. While onions are cooking, blanch the spinach in
lightly salted boiling water for a few seconds until wilted. Drain
and immediately plunge into ice water to stop the cooking and set the
color. Drain again and gently squeeze as much of the moisture as
possible out of the spinach with a clean tea towel. Coarsely chop
spinach and combine with onion mixture. Season with salt, pepper and
nutmeg.

Over an open flame or under a broiler, char peppers on all sides.
Remove and cover loosely with plastic for a few minutes to sweat and
then scrape off charred skin with the point of a knife. Remove and
discard seeds and stems and cut peppers into long thick slices.

Lightly butter or oil a small terrine or loaf pan (8x4x2 1/2 inches)
and line the bottom with buttered waxed paper or parchment.

Beat the eggs briefly together with the herbs and season with salt and
pepper. Layer one third of spinach mixture on bottom of pan. Top with
1/3 of roasted red pepper, 1/3 of the cheese and 1/3 of the crab.
Pour about a third of the egg mixture over and gently tap pan and
poke mixture to evenly distribute eggs. Continue layering in this way.

Place terrine in a larger baking pan and pour enough hot tap water to
come at least 2/3 of the way up the sides of the terrine. Place in a
preheated 325 degree oven, cover with parchment or foil and bake in a
preheated 325 degree oven until eggs are just set. Remove from water
bath and let sit 15-20 minutes before unmolding if serving warm.

Yield: 6 servings

~ - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

NOTES : Show: 10/24

*chives, tarragon, dill or a combination.

: COOKING RIGHT SHOW #CR9746 From: Bill Spalding
Recipe By
<billspa@icanect.Ne

