Title: BANANA BREAD PUDDING WITH RUM SAUCE
Categories: Breads, Desserts
Yield: 6 Servings
Bread pudding
2 c  Milk
1 c  Heavy (whipping) cream
1/2 c  Sugar
3    Large egg yolks
1    Large egg
1 tb Vanilla extract
1 ts Freshly grated nutmeg
Pinch of salt
5    Slices (each 1/2 in thick) f
-resh banana bread
3    Large bananas, cut into 1/4
-in. thick rounds
-----for the rum sauce-----
4 tb Unsalted butter (1/2 stick)
3 tb Dark brown sugar
2 tb Freshly squeezed lemon juice
1/2 c  Rum
1/4 c  Water
-----garnish-----
2 c  Heavy whipping cream, whippe
-d to soft peaks
1.  Generously butter a 12-cup ovenproof baking dish.

2.  To make the custard, whisk the milk, cream, and sugar together in
a large bowl.  Add the egg yolks and the whole egg one at a time,
whisking well after each addition. Whisk in the vanilla, nutmeg, and
salt, and set aside.

3.  Cut four slices of the banana bread vertically into 1-inch-wide
fingers.  Arrange an even layer of bread fingers on the bottom of the
prepared dish, cutting and fitting them to cover the bottom. It is
fine if they curve slightly up the sides of the dish. Cover the bread
slices with an even layer of banana slices, and then pour enough
custard over the bread and bananas to cover them.  Repeat the layers
of bread and bananas. Cut the remaining slice of banana bread into
cubs, and sprinkle these over the bananas, press down slightly on the
bread cubes, and cover. Set aside for 30 minutes.

4.  Meanwhile, preheat the oven to 350F.

5.  Bake the pudding until it is almost solid through, about 45
minutes. Then remove the cover and bake until the cubes of banana
bread on the top are golden, an additional 15 minutes. Remove the
dish from the oven and cool it on a wire rack.

6.  While the bread pudding is cooling, make the sauce: Melt the
butter in a small saucepan over medium heat. Whisk in the brown
sugar, lemon juice, rum, and water, and bring to a rolling boil.
Cook, whisking occasionally, until the mixture begins to thicken and
the sugar has dissolved, about 5 minutes. Remove the sauce from the
heat and transfer it to a serving pitcher.  Serve along with the
slighly cooled banana bread pudding and whipped cream, if you like.

Source:  "The Farm House Cookbook," Susan Herrmann Loomis, 1991.

