Title: Black Bean Burritos
Categories: Mexican, Vegetarian, Beans
Yield: 3 servings
1 ts Ground Cumin
5 tb Olive Or Vegetable Oil
16 oz Tomatoes; Cut Up, 1 Can
1    1/4-Inch Thick Lemon Slice
1 ts Dried Oregano; Crushed
1/4 ts Salt
1 ds Hot Pepper Sauce; (Optional)
6    Flour Tortillas
8 oz Black Beans; Dry*, OR
30 oz Black Beans; Canned
1 md Onion; Finely Chopped
2    Garlic Cloves; Minced
1    Jalapeno Pepper; Seeded And
-Finely Chopped, Up To Two
-Can Be Used Or To Taste
1 ts Chili Powder
---------------------------------GARNISHES---------------------------------
Chopped Tomato; (Optional)
Snipped Cilantro
Salsa
Guacamole
Cook the dry beans*.  Rinse and drain the cooked or canned beans and set
aside.  In a 4 1/2-quart Dutch oven, cook the onion, garlic, peppers, chili
powder and cumin in hot oil, until tender, stirring occasionally. Stir in
the drained beans, the UNDRAINED tomatoes, lemon, oregano, salt (omit if
using the canned beans), and pepper sauce, if desired.  Bring to boiling,
reduce the heat, and simmer, uncovered, about 15 minutes or until thick.
Remove the lemon.  In a blender container or food processor bowl, place one
third of the mixture, cover, and blend until smooth.  Repeat with the
remaining beans.  Return to the pan and heat through.  In the meantime,
wrap the tortillas in foil and warm in a 350 Degree F. oven for about 10
minutes.  Place about 1/2 Cup of the bean mixture onto each tortilla. and
fold the edges over to form a packet.  Serve with salsa and guacamole If
desired, top with chopped tomato and snipped cilantro.

* TO COOK THE DRY BEANS:

To cook the dry beans in a 4 1/2-quart Dutch oven, combine the beans and
enough water to cover.  Bring to boiling then reduce  the heat and simmer,
uncovered, for 2 minutes.  Remove from the heat, cover, and let stand for 1
hour.  (Or without cooking, soak the beans overnight.)  Drain the beans and
rinse.  In the same Dutch oven combine the beans and 5 cups of water or
vegetable broth.  Bring to boiling, reduce the heat, cover and simmer for 1
to 1 1/2 hours or until tender.

Posted by Kaz Glover in Intercook

