Title: Hy Abernathy's Georgia Chain-Gang Chili
Categories: Chili, Beans
Yield: 20 servings
1 ts Oregano,dried,pref. Mexican
1/2 ts Cumin
Rosemary
1 1/2 c  Tomatoes,Italian-style
16 oz Tomato sauce
8 oz Tomato sauce,Mexican hot
1 cn Chiles,green,mild,whole
1 cn Jalapeno peppers,pickled
2 tb Hot pepper sauce,liquid
1 tb Butter
3    Chiles,fresh whole green
1/2 c  Mushrooms
1/2 c  Sauterne
12 oz Beer
1 c  Burgundy,dry
1/2 ts Thyme,dried
2    Bay leaves
4    Garlic cloves,med,fine chop
1/2 ts Black pepper,freshly ground
6 lb Beef,coarse grind
2    Chicken breasts,large
Water
2 ts Salt
2 tb Oil,vegetable
2    Onions
3    Pork chops,coarse grind
10 tb Red chile,mild,ground
1 ts Cayenne pepper
1. In a large non-aluminum (preferably glass or glazed cast iron) bowl make
a marinade by combining the burgundy, thyme, bay leaves, garlic, and black
pepper. Place all the beef in the bowl and mix lightly to coat the meat
well. Cover and refrigerate overnight. (If time is short marinate for 2
hours at room temperature.)~ 2. Place the chicken breasts in a saucepan
with enough water to cover. Add 1 teaspoon salt and simmer over low heat
for 1/2 hour. Remove the chicken reserving the liquid. Chop the chicken
breasts fine and reserve.~ 3. Meal the oil in a large heavy pot. Add the
onions and cook until they are translucent.~ 4. Meanwhile, drain the beef,
straining and reserving the marinade. Mix the beef and pork together, then
combine the meats with the ground chile, cayenne pepper, oregano, cumin,
rosemary, and the rest of the salt. Add this meat-and-spice mixture to the
pot with the onions. Break up any lumps with a fork and cook, stirring
occasionally, until the meat is evenly browned.~ 5. Add half the marinade,
the reserved chicken, tomatoes, both tomato sauces, jalapenos, and 1
tablespoon of liquid hot pepper sauce to the pot.~ 6. Melt the butter in a
heavy skillet over medium heat. Add the fresh chiles, mushrooms, and a
small amount of the Sauterne and cook for 3 minutes. Add this to the pot.~
7. Bring to a boil and simmer, uncovered, for at least 3 hours. When the
chili is cooking, from time to time stir in the remaining marinade, the
remaining Sauterne, and beer. If more liquid is needed, stir in the water
the chicken was cooked in. Taste and adjust seasonings.~

