Title: Blackened Chicken
Categories: Cajun Main dish Poultry
Servings:  8
16 ea 3 oz skinless chicken breast
-----------------------SEASONING MIX-----------------------
2 T  Salt
1 1/2 t  Garlic powder
1 1/2 t  Ground black pepper
1 t  White pepper
1 t  Onion powder
1 t  Ground cumin
1/2 t  Gound cayenne pepper
1/2 t  Sweet paprika
---------------------OTHER INGREDIENTS---------------------
3/4 lb Melted unsalted butter
NOTE: Recipe calls for 16 (3-ounce) skinless boned
chicken breasts, about 1/2 to 3/4 inch thick, or 8
(10-ounce) bone-in leg-thigh pieces, or a combination
of these.  Skin the leg-thigh pieces, then bone each
piece along the length of the two bones, leaving meat
in one piece.  Trim off excess fat.  Pound each breast
or leg-thigh fillet to 1/2 inch thick. Let the chicken
come to room temperature before blackening.
Thoroughly combine the seasoning mix ingredients in a
small bowl.    Heat a large cast-iron skillet over
very high heat until it is extremely hot and just
short of the point at which you see white ash or a
white spot forming in the skillet bottom, about 8
minutes.  (the time will vary according to the
intensity of the heat source.)    Heat the serving
plates in a 250F oven.    Just before cooking each
piece of chicken, dip it in the melted butter so that
both sides are well coated, then sprinkle each fillet
evenly with the seasoning mix, using about a rounded
1/2 teaspoon on each, and patting it in with your
hands.  (If you lay the fillet on a plate or other
surface to season it, be sure the surface is warm so
the butter won't congeal and stick to the surface
instead of to the meat.  Wipe the surface clean after
seasoning each fillet.  Use any remaining seasoning
mix in another recipe.)
Immediately place the fillet skinned side down in
the hot skillet, making sure all meat folds are opened
up and the meat is lying flat.  Pour about 1 teaspoon
butter on the top of the fillet (be careful, as the
butter may flame up).  If you cook more that 1 fillet
at a time, place each fillet in the skillet before
buttering and seasoning another one.    Cook uncovered
over the same high heat until the underside forms a
crust, about 2 minutes.  (The time will vary according
to the thickness of the fillets and the heat of the
skillet or fire;  watch the meat and you'll see a
white line coming up the side as it cooks.)  Turn the
fillets over and pour about 1 teaspoon more melted
butter on top of each.  Cook just until meat is cooked
through, about 2 minutes more.  Serve the chicken
fillets crustier side up while piping hot.    Clean
the skillet after cooking each batch and repeat the
blackening procedure with the remaining chicken
fillets.    To serve, place 2 breast fillets or 1
leg-thigh fillet on each heated serving plate.  If you
use a large serving platter, do not stack the fillets.
Paul Prudhomme warns, "Blackening should be done
either outdoors or in a commercial kitchen.  The
process creates an incredible amount of smoke that
will set off your own and your neighbors' smoke
alarms.  People with really well-installed commercial
hood vents at home have gotten away with blackening in
their own kitchens.  They are privileged!  Don't push
your luck."
From The Prudhomme Family Cookbook

