Title: Blackened Redfish
Categories: Cajun Main dish Fish
Servings:  6
6 ea 8-10oz redfish fillets
3/4 lb Unsalted butter, melted
-----------------------SEASONING MIX-----------------------
1 T  Sweet paprika
2 1/2 t  Salt
1 t  Onion powder
1 t  Garlic powder
1 t  Ground cayenne pepper
3/4 t  Ground white pepper
3/4 t  Ground black pepper
1/2 t  Dried thyme leaves
1/2 t  Dried oregano leaves
NOTE: Fish fillets (preferably redfish, pompano or
tilefish) cut about 1/2 inch thick.  Redfish and
pompano are ideal for this method of cooking.  If
tilefish is used, you may have to split the fillets in
half horizontally to have proper thickness.  If you
can't get any of these fish, salmon steaks or red
snapper fillets can be substituted.  In any case, the
fillets or steaks must not be more than 3/4 inch thick.
Heat a large cast-iron skillet over very high heat
until it is beyond the smoking stage and you see white
ash in the skillet bottom (the skillet cannot be too
hot for this dish), at least 10 minutes.  (FT - this
recipe is *NOT* for the faint of heart)    Meanwhile,
pour 2 Tablespoons melted butter in each of 6 small
ramekins; set aside and keep warm.  Reserve the
remaining butter in its skillet.  Heat the serving
plates in a 250F oven.    Thoroughly combine the
seasoning mix ingredients in a small bowl. Dip each
fillet in the reserved melted butter so that both
sides are well coated; then sprinkle seasoning mix
generously and evenly on both sides of the fillets,
patting by hand.  Place in the hot skillet and pour 1
teaspoon melted butter on top of each fillet (be
careful, as the butter may flame up).  Cook,
uncovered, over the same high heat until the underside
looks charred, about 2 minutes (the time will vary
according to the fillet's thickness and the heat of
the skillet).  Turn the fish over and again pour 1
teaspoon butter on top; cook until fish is done, about
2 minutes more.  Repeat with remaining fillets.  Serve
each fillet while piping hot.
To serve, place one fillet and a ramekin of butter
on each heated serving plate.
I had this in K Pauls Restaurant in New Orleans.  It
is a taste experience you will never forgive yourself
for missing should you ever be lucky enough to find
yourself in N'awlins and you don't go to K Paul's and
order this.  Even people who don't like fish love this
dish. From Chef Paul Prudhomme's Louisiana Kitchen,
published by William Morrow and Company, Inc.  ISBN
0-688-02847-0

