Title: Blackened Pork Chops
Categories: Cajun Main dish Meats
Servings:  6
18 ea 5 oz pork chops, 3/4" thick
3/4 lb Melted unsalted butter (note
-----------------------SEASONING MIX-----------------------
1 T  Salt
1 T  + 2 tsp white pepper
1 T  + 3/4 tsp black pepper
2 1/2 t  Dry mustard
2 1/2 t  Cayenne pepper
2 t  Garlic powder
3/4 t  Dried thyme leaves
NOTE:  The 3/4 pound (3 sticks) unsalted butter, must
be kept melted and warm in the skillet.
Let the chops come to room remperature before
blackening.  Combine the seasoning mix ingredients
thoroughly in a medium-size bowl.    Heat a large
cast-iron skillet over very high heat until it is
extremely hot and just short of the point at which you
see white ash or a white spot forming in the skillet
bottom, about 8 minutes.  (The time will vary
according to the intensity of the heat source.)
Heat the serving plates in a 250F oven.    Just
before cooking each chop, dip it in the melted butter
so that both sides are well coated, then sprinkle each
side generously and evenly with the seasoning mix (use
between 1/4 and 1/2 teaspoon on each side), patting it
in with your hands.  (If you lay the chop on a plate
or other surface to season it, be sure the surface is
warm so the butter won't congeal and stick to the
surface instead of to the chop.  Wipe the surface
clean after seasoning each chop.  Use any remnaining
seasoning mix in another recipe.)    Immediately place
the chop in the hot skillet.  If the chop is very
lean, pour about 1 teaspoon butter on top.  (Be
careful, as the butter may flame up.)  If you cook
more than 1 chop at a time, place each chop in the
skillet before buttering and seasoning another one.
Cook uncovered over the same high heat until the
underside forms a crust, about 2 minutes (the time
will vary according to the thickness of the chops and
the heat of the skillet or fire).  Turn the chops over
and pour about 1 teaspoon more butter on top of each,
if needed.  Cook just until meat is done, about 2
minutes more.  Serve the chops crustier side up while
piping hot.    Clean the skillet after cooking each
batch and repeat the blackening procedure with the
remaining chops.    To serve, place 2 or 3 chops on
each heated serving plate.  If you use a serving
plater, DO NOT STACK THE CHOPS. From The Prudhome
Family Cookbook Some personal notes:  If you do not
have a heavy duty commercial range hood, capable of
disposing of an incredible amount of smoke, DON'T cook
this inside.  If you live in an apartment, like I do,
where your smoke detector is attached to a central
fire system, you will very quickly become well known
to all your neighbors, and your local firefighters. In
all likelyhood you will also get to meet your
landlord.    A good, 40,000 BTU to 50,000 BTU barbecue
will do a good job of providing sufficient heat.  Be
sure you have all your doors and windows closed, and
invite your neighbors to the barbecue.  This method
generates a totally unbelievable amount of smoke.
However, the results are worth it.  Whatever you are
cooking by this method, it is an entirely incredible
taste experience. From Prudhomme Family Cookbook

