Title: Fish Brown Sauce
Categories: Cajun Sauces Fish
Servings:  6
-----------------------SEASONING MIX-----------------------
1 ea Whole bay leaf
1/2 t  Salt
1/2 t  Garlic powder
1/4 t  White pepper
1/4 t  Dried oregano leaves
1/4 t  Dried thyme leaves
1/8 t  Ground cayenne pepper
---------------------MAIN INGREDIENTS---------------------
2 T  Vegetable oil
3 T  All-purpose flour
1/4 c  Finely chopped onions
4 t  Canned tomatoe sauce
1 t  Worcestershire sauce
2 c  Hot basic seafood stock
2 T  Burgundy wine
2 T  Unsalted butter, softened
Serve this delicious sauce over broiled, fried or
baked fish fillets or broiled, fried or baked oysters.
Combine the seasoning mix ingredients in a small
bowl and set aside.    Heat the oil in a heavy 1-quart
saucepan over high heat just until the oil starts to
smoke, about 1 to 2 minutes.  With a metal whisk, mix
in 2 tablespoons of the flour, whisking constantly and
scraping pan bottom well, until the roux is dark
red-brown to black, about 2 minutes, being careful not
to let it scorch or splash on your skin.  (Remove from
heat momentarily if it is browing too fast for you to
control, continuing to stir constantly.)  Immediately
whisk in the onions; reduce heat to low and continue
stirring and cooking about 1 minute.  Add the tomato
sauce and stir and cook 1 minute.  Then stir in the
seasoning mix and the Worcestershire (the mixture
should now be thick and dark red-brown); cook 2 to 3
minutes, stirring constantly.  Add the stock; turn
heat to high and bring to a boil, stirring often.
Reduce heat to maintain a simmer and cook about 6 to
8 minutes, stirring often.  Stir in 1 tablespoon of
the burgundy and remove from heat.    In a small bowl
mix the butter and remaining 1 tablespoon flour until
creamy.  Return sauce to low heat; gradually add the
butter mixture to the sauce, whisking until well
blended each time.  Return sauce to a simmer and
simmer 10 minutes, stirring often.  Add the remaining
1 tablespoon burgundy.  Remove from heat and discard
bay leaf. Serve immediately.
From Paul Prudhomme's "Louisiana Kitchen"

