Title: Garlic-Stuffed Mushrooms
Categories: Garlic Appetizers
Servings:  4
12 ea Medium Mushrooms
3 T  Unsalted Butter
2 ea Scallions, Sliced
1 1/2 T  Coarsely Ground Pecans
1 1/2 T  Fresh Parmesan Cheese *
1 1/2 T  Bread Crumbs
1/4 c  Garlic Bechemel
1 x  Salt (To Taste)
1 x  Freshly Ground White Pepper
1 x  Cayenne Pepper
Unsalted Butter
Unbleached All-purpose Fl
4 T
4 T
*  Grate the Fresh Parmesan Cheese for this recipe.
~------------------------------------------------------
~----------------- Preheat oven to 450 degrees F.
Clean the mushrooms.  Remove the stems and reserve.
Parboil the mushrooms in just enough water to cover,
for 3 minutes, until barely cooked.  Drain well, blot
with paper towels, and set aside until needed.
If the tip of the stems seem woody, trim them away.
Chop stems coarsely. Melt 2 T of the butter in a
skillet.  Toss the chopped mushrooms stems and
scallions.  Saute until tender and most of the
mushroom juices have evaporated.  Toss in the pecans,
pecans, bred crumbs, parmesan cheese, and remaining
tablespoon of butter.  Stir until the butter is melted
and absorbed.  Stir in the garlic bechamel.  Add salt
and freshly ground pepper to taste.
Stuff each mushroom cap with the mixture, mounding it
neatly over the top. Sprinkle each with some cayenne
pepper.  Put stuffed mushrooms in a lightly oiled,
shallow baking dish.  Bake for 10 minutes or until
heated through.  Serve at once.
GARLIC BECHAMEL:
Scalded Milk (More or less, depending on
X
Ea    Large Egg At Room
X
2 1/2 C
the thickness of 1
White Pepper To Taste 1
Temperature. 1
Heads Of Roasted Garlic Melt the butter in a heavy
saucepan and whisk in the flour.  Let this roux cook
over low heat, stirring constantly for 3 to 4 minutes.
Whisk in the scalded milk.  Bring to a boil.  Reduce
the heat and cook gently, stirring frequently, for 10
to 15 minutes.  Add salt and pepper and whisk in the
garlic puree.  Remove from the heat. Beat the egg in a
bowl.  Beat some of the sauce into the egg.  Next beat
the egg mixture back into the garlic sauce.  Taste and
correct seasonings. Store in the refrigerator, with
plastic wrap placed directly on the surface of the
sauce, until needed.  Thin with milk before using if
necessary.

