Title: No-Knead Cheddar Rolls
Categories: Breads Cheese Yeast bread
Servings:  8
1 1/2 c  Unbleached Flour; Unsifted
1 pk Active Dry Yeast; OR
1 t  Salt
3/4 c  Milk
1/2 c  Water
1 c  Unbleached Flour; Unsifted
1 c  Cheddar; Sharp, Grated
1/4 c  Butter
1 ea Egg Yolk; Lg
1 tb Active Dry Yeast; Bulk
3 tb Sugar
3 tb Butter
1 tb Milk
Place the grated cheese in a small bowl and cover to
prevent drying then set aside.  Combine 1 1/2 cups
unsifted flour, yeast, sugar, and salt in a large
mixer bowl, blending thoroughly.  Measure 3/4 c of
milk, water, and butter into a saucepan and heat until
the liquids are warm, 115 to 120 degrees F..
Gradually add the liquids to the dry ingredients in
the mixer bowl, beating for 2 minutes at medium speed
of the electric mixer, scraping the bowl occasionally.
Add and beat in 1 cup of unsifted flour at high
speed.  Beat for 2 minutes, scraping the bowl
occasionally.  Mix in enough additional flour (1/2 to
1 cup unsifted) to make a soft dough. (Dough will be
slightly sticky.)  Put the dough into a greased deep
bowl. Cover with waxed paper and a clean towel and let
stand in a warm place until the dough has doubled, 45
to 60 minutes.  Generously grease several baking
sheets.  Melt the butter and set aside.  Punch the
dough down wit a fist and turn the dough out onto a
lightly floured surface.  Divide the dough into two
equal portions.  Set one portion aside.  Roll the
dough into a rectangle 16 X 8-inches.  Brush with
about one-half of the melted butter.  Sprinkle with
about one half of the grated cheddar cheese.  Cut
crosswise into 8 equal portions.  Cut into halves
lengthwise.  Fold each strip into thirds, lapping each
side portion over the center third.  Place the rolls
on a baking sheet.  Repeat for the other half of the
dough. Beat the egg yolk with the tbls of milk,
slightly.  Brush the tops of the rolls with the egg
yolk mixture.  Let rise until doubled, about 30
minutes.  Bake at 425 degrees F. for about 8 minutes
or until rolls are golden brown.  Serve rolls hot.

