Title: Sour Cream Chocolate Layer Cake
Categories: Chocolate Cakes Desserts
Servings: 12
2 c  Flour; Unbleached, Sifted
2 c  Sugar
1 1/4 t  Baking Soda
1/2 t  Baking Powder
1 t  Salt
1/4 c  Vegetable Shorteneing
3/4 c  Sour Cream
1 t  Vanilla Extract
2 ea Eggs; Large
1 c  ;Water
4 oz Baking Chocolate
-------------------------FROSTING-------------------------
1/3 c  Butter Or Regular Margarine
3 c  Confectioners' sugar
1/2 c  Sour Cream
3 oz Baking Chocolate
Sift togetehr the flour, sugar, baking powder, baking
soda, and salt into a large mixing bowl.  Add
shortening, sour cream, vanilla, eggs, water and
chocolate (melted then cooled).  Beat with an electric
mixer at low speed, scraping bowl constantly, for 1/2
minute.  Increase speed to high and beat an additional
3 minutes, scraping bowl occasionally.  Pour batter
into 2 greased and waxed-paper lined 9-inch round cake
pans.  Bake in a preheated 350 degree F. Oven for 35
minutes or until cake tests done.  Cool in pans on
racks for 10 minutes.  Remove from pans and cool
completely on the racks.  Place one cake layer on
serving plate.  Spread with Sour Cream / Chocolate
Frosting.  Top with second cake layer.  Frost sides
and top of the cake with the remaining Sour
Cream/Chocolate Frosting. SOUR CREAM/CHOCOLATE
FROSTING: Combine the softened butter or margarine,
confectioners' sugar, and sour cream in a mixing bowl;
blend well.  Add chocolate which has been melted and
cooled and vanilla.  Beat until smooth. NOTE:
I have seen reference to people having trouble with
their layer cakes and how they rise.  Try this little
trick when making this cake.  Take the layer that has
the least amount of rise on the top and trim it to be
flat with a sharp knife.  Place the trimmed side down
(layer should be upside down).  Then frost between
layers and place the other layer on right side up and
finished frosting.  It will give the illusion of
having a cake with only one domed layer and will sit
better on your cake plate.  Also the trimmings are
great eating just plain for the cook or for the kids.

