Title: Stuffed Pork Chops
Categories: Cajun Main dish Meats
Servings:  6
2 ea Med. apples coarsely chopped
7 T  Unsalted butter
3 T  Light brown sugar
1 t  Vanilla extract
1/2 t  Ground nutmeg
-----------------------SEASONING MIX-----------------------
1 T  Salt
1 t  Onion powder
1 t  Ground cayenne pepper
3/4 t  Garlic powder
1/2 t  White pepper
1/2 t  Dry mustard
1/2 t  Rubbed sage
1/2 t  Ground cumin
1/2 t  Black pepper
1/2 t  Dried thyme leaves
-------------------PORK CHOP INGREDIENTS-------------------
6 ea 1-3/4" thick pork chops
3/4 lb Ground pork
1 c  Chopped onions
1 c  Chopped green bell peppers
2 t  Minced garlic
1 cn (4 oz) diced green chilies
1 c  Pork or chicken stock
1/2 c  Very fine bread crumbs
1/2 c  Finely chopped green onions
In a food processor or blender, process the apples, 4
Tablespoons of the butter, the sugar, vanilla and
nutmeg until smooth, about 3 to 4 minutes.  Set aside.
In a small bowl thoroughly combine the seasoning mix
ingredients; set aside.
Prepare the pork chops by cutting a large pocket (to
the bone) into the larger side of each chop to hold
the stuffing.   In a large skillet, brown the ground
pork in the remaining 3 Tbsp. butter over high heat,
about 3 minutes.  Add the onions, bell peppers,
garlic, and 2 Tbsp. of the seasoning mix, stirring
well; cook about 5 minutes, stirring occasionally and
scraping pan bottom well.  Stir in the green chilies
and their juice and continue cooking until mixture is
well browned, about 6 to 8 minutes, stirring
occasionally and scraping the pan bottom as needed.
Add the stock and cook 5 minutes, stirring
frequently.  Stir in the bread crumbs and cook about 2
minutes more, stirring constantly and scraping pan
bottom as needed.  Remove from heat.
Sprinkle the remaining seasoning mix evenly on both
sides of the chops and inside the pockets, pressing it
in by hand.  Prop chops with pocket side up in an
ungreased 13x9-inch baking pan.  Spoon about 1/4 cup
stuffing into each pocket; reserve the remaining
stuffing.  Bake chops with pocket up at 400F until the
meat is done, about 1 hour 10 minutes. Place the
remaining stuffing in a small pan in the oven for the
last 20 minutes to reheat.   Serve immediately with
each chop arranged on top of a portion of the
remaining stuffing.

