Title: True Garlic Bread
Categories: Breads Garlic
Servings:  6
1 x  Garlic Puree(2 Roasted Head)
1/4 lb Unsalted Butter, Softened
2 T  (2 pk) Dry yeast
1/2 c  Warm Water (115-120 degrees)
2 1/2 c  Warm Water
2 T  Kosher Salt
3 1/4 c  Whole Wheat Flour
3 1/4 c  Unbleached All Purpose Flour
1 x  Cornmeal
Cream together the garlic puree and butter.  (This may
be done days in advance and refrigerated.  Bring to
room temperature before using). Combine the yeast with
1/2 cup warm water in large bowl.  Stir with a fork or
small whisk.  Add an additional 2 1/2 cups water.  Add
salt.  Stir in the flour, 1 c at a time, beginning
with the whole wheat.  Use a whisk until the dough
becomes stiff, then switch to a wooden spoon.  Turn
the dough onto a well floured work surface.  Knead
rhythmically for 10 to 15 minutes, until the dough is
smooth, springy, nonsticky, and elastic.  Add more
flour as you knead if necessary.  The dough is ready
if you can poke to fingers into it and the resulting
indentations spring back.  Cover the dough with a
cloth and let rest while you wash, dry and generously
butter the bowl.  Knead the dough a few more turns,
then form it into a ball and place it in the bowl.
Turn it to coat with butter.  Cover the bowl and put
it in a warm, draft-free place until the dough has
doubled in bulk, about 1 1/2 hours.  It has risen
sufficiently when you can gently poke a finger into
the dough and the hole reamins.  (Don't poke too
enthusiastically or the dough will collapse.)  When
doubled, flour your fist and punch the dough down.
Knead it a few times and then let it rest. Sprinkle 1
large or 2 small baking sheets with a liberal amount
of cornmeal.  Divide the dough into 3 equal parts.
While you work with 1 piece, keep the other 2
covered.  Flour your work surface.  With a rolling
pin, roll each piece of dough into a rectangle
approximately 14-inches long X 7-inches wide.  Spread
it with softened garlic butter.  Roll the long edge
toward the opposite long edge, as if you were rolling
up a rug. Pinch ends closed.  Place loves on the
baking sheets.  With a sharp knife or razor blade,
slash the loves lightly at 2-inch intervals.  Cover
with a cloth and place in a warm draft-free place to
rise until doubled, about 1/2 hour.  Meanwhile preheat
oven to 400 degrees F.  Bake for 35 to 40 minutes with
a pan of boiling water on the oven floor.  Spray
loaves with water several times during the baking
process.  (This helps the bread form a thick crusty
shell.)  To test for doneness, rap the loaf with your
knuckles.  The loaf should sound hollow.  Cool on wire
racks, but the loaves are delicious eaten warm right
out of the oven.

