Title: Vindaloo (Goan-style hot and sour pork)
Categories: Indian Ethnic Spicy Main dish
Servings:  6
2 t  whole cumin seeds
2 ea Hot, dried red chilies
1 t  black pepper corns
1 t  cardamom seeds
3 ea In stick cinnamon
1 1/2 t  black mustard seeds
1 t  fenugreek seeds
5 T  white wine vinegar
1 1/2 t  salt
1 t  brown sugar
5 T  vegetable oil
2 ea Medium onions cut into rings
1 1/3 c  water
2 lb pork cut into 1" cubes
1 ea One in cube ginger chopped
8 ea Cloves garlic peeled
1 T  ground coriander seeds
1/2 t  turmeric
Grind cumin seeds,  red chilies,  peppercorns,
cardamom seeds, cinnamon, black  mustard  seeds and
fenugreek seeds in a coffee-grinder  or  other spice
grinder.   Put the ground spices in a bowl.  Add the
vinegar, salt and sugar.  Mix and set aside.
Heat  the  oil in a wide,  heavy pot over a medium
flame.   Put  in  the onions.   Fry,  stirring
frequently,  until  the onions turn brown  and crisp.
Remove  the onions with a slotted spoon and put them
into  the container  of  an  electric blender or food
processor.   (Turn  off  the heat.)   Add  2-3
tablespoons of water to the  blender  and  puree  the
onions.   Add this puree to the ground spices in the
bowl.  (This is the vindaloo paste.  It may be made
ahead of time and frozen.) Dry  off  the meat cubes
with a paper towel and remove large  pieces  of fat,
if any. Put  the ginger and garlic into the container
of an electric blender  or food processor.  Add 2-3
tablespoons of water and blend until you have a smooth
paste. Heat  the oil remaining in the pot once again
over a medium-high  flame. When hot, put in the pork
cubes, a few at a time, and brown them lightly on  all
sides.   Remove each batch with a slotted spoon and
keep  in  a bowl.   Do all the pork this way.   Now
put the ginger-garlic paste into the same pot.   Turn
down the heat to medium.   Stir the paste for a few
seconds.  Add the coriander and turmeric.  Stir for
another few seconds. Add  the  meat,  any  juices that
may have accumulated as  well  as  the vindaloo paste
and the water.  Bring to a boil.  Cover and simmer
gently for  an  hour  or until port is tender.   Stir
a few times  during  this cooking period.  Serve with
rice.

