Title: Almond Butter Crunch
Categories: Candy
Yield: 1 servings
1    Stick margarine
1/2 tb Salt
1/4 ts Baking soda
4 oz Baking chocolate,dark, sweet
2 oz Baking chocolate, unsweet.
1 ts Veg. oil
3/4 c  Whole, unblanched almonds
1 1/2 c  Finely chopped unblanched>>>
Almonds.
1 1/4 c  Sugar
1/3 c  Light corn syrup
1/3 c  Water
1    Stick unsalted butter
1) Preheat oven to 300 F. 2) Toast whole almonds on baking sheet, and
chopped almonds in pan , until each batch is barely colored, abt. 10
min. for chopped almonds and 20 min. for whole. Cool whole almonds
for 10 min., then chop coarsely. Return to baking sheet in turned-off
oven to keep warm. Cool finely chopped nuts. 3) In heavy pan, combine
sugar, corn syrup, and water and bring to boil over med heat,
stirring. Cover and simmer for 2 min.  Add butter and margarine and
stir until melted. Boil over moderate heat, stirring occasionally,
until a candy thermometer reads 240 F. Continue to cook, stirring
constantly to 300 F. 4) While candy is cooking, butter baking sheet
and warm slightly. Butter a metal spatula. 5) Remove candy mixture
from heat and add salt, soda, and warm chopped almonds; stir. Pour
onto the slightly warmed baking sheet and spread out 1/4" thick with
buttered spatula, keeping rectangular shape. Set pan on a cake rack
and let the candy cool slightly, until it is somewhat set but still
warm and pliable. 6) Using a large knife, score candy into 1 1/2 x 2
inch pcs. Immediately go back and separate pcs. moving slightly
apart, one row at a time. Let candy cool completely. 7) In double
boiler over simmering water, melt chocolate with oil. Stir to blend,
then cool to 85 F. 8) Push candy back together as closely as
possible. Pour chocolate over, spreading it evenly with back of
pancake turner. Cover chocolate with finely chopped almonds, pressing
them in. 9) Let chocolate set; if process seems slow, you may want to
separate pcs. and place on racks for several hrs, covered with paper
towels. Pack candy airtight in layers separated with plastic wrap or
wax paper.

