Title: Andre Black's Carrot Cake
Categories: Cake/cookie, Cheese/eggs, Dessert
Yield: 1 servings
-drained pineapple
1 c  Plus 2 Tbsp crushed
-walnuts
1 c  Raisins
-Frosting:
1/2 c  Softened margarine or
-butter
8 oz Softened cream cheese
1 lb Confectioners sugar
1 ts Vanilla extract
3 lg Eggs, beaten *
2 c  Sugar *
1 c  Plus 2 Tbsp salad oil
2 c  Plus 1 Tbsp sifted cake
-flour *
1 1/8 ts Cinnamon
1 1/2 ts Salt
1 tb Baking soda
1 1/2 c  Shredded coconut
2 c  Grated carrots
1 c  Plus 2 Tbsp crushed,
Here is a recipe, developed young man here in the Detroit area. With
this recipe, he won a $10,000 scholarship to Johnson and Wales
College, which is considered a top-notch cooking school, located in
Charleston, SC. This young man, Andre Black, spent 2 weeks developing
this recip, this cake was among the top 19 recipes chosen <out of
270> as winners. Andre was on the front page of the Detroit News
yesterday, along with the recipe. The Detroit News food writer, Robin
Mather says "For a Carrot Cake, this is a hell of a fruit cake. She
found this cake suited to 3 8" layers.

Preheat oven to 350.  Grease and flour three 8" layer pans. Combine
eggs, sugar and oil.  Beat on high speed until creamy and thick, 3-5
minutes. Sift together flour, cinnamon, salt and baking soda. Slowly
add 1/3 of the dry ingredients to egg mixture; beat well. Repeat with
remaining dry ingredients, beating well after each addition. Batter
will be extrememly stiff; it may be necessary to blend with a spatula
or spoon. One by one, fold in carrots, coconut, pineapple, walnuts
and raisins.

Divide batter between the 3 prepared cake pans.  Bake at 350 for 40-45
minutes, arranging cake pans in oven once.  The cake is done when the
tester inserted in center comes out clean.  Let cake cool in pans 5
minutes.  Turn out onto rack to cool completely.

When cakes are cool, prepare frosting: combine margarine, cream
cheese, sugar and vanilla.  Beat until smooth.  Frost cake.

* Andre's original recipe, written in professional baking terms,
calls for 6 oz beaten eggs, 15 1/2 oz of sugar, and 12 oz cake flour

Andre hopes tobbecome an executive chef, and own his own resturant
someday.

