Title: Basic Cream Soup and Variations
Categories: Soup/stew, Vegetable
Yield: 6 servings
CREAM OF CUCUMBER SOUP:
4 c  Cucumbers, peeled, seeded
-and diced
1/2 c  Sour cream
Basic cream soup recipe
CREAM OF LIMA BEAN SOUP:
4 c  Lima beans
4 tb Crisply fried bacon crumbled
Basic cream soup recipe
CREAM OF SPINACH SOUP:
4 c  Spinach, coarsely chopped
2    Hard cooked egg yolks
Basic cream soup recipe
CREAM OF ASPARAGUS SOUP:
4 c  Tender asparagus tips
4 c  Fresh vegetables, coarsley
-chopped
4 tb Flour
5 c  Chicken stock
3 c  Light cream
5 tb Butter
Salt and Pepper to taste
CREAM OF CAULIFLOWER SOUP:
4 c  Cauliflower flowerets
Paprika
Basic cream soup recipe
CREAM OF BROCCOLI SOUP:
5 c  Broccoli
A pinch or two of nutmeg
Basic Cream soup recipe
BASIC CREAM SOUP: Pumpernickel croutons Basic cream soup recipe

Peel the vegetable, if necessary, and chop coarsely.  Place in a
saucepan with 3 cups of the stock.  Cook over medium heat until the
vegetable is tender.  Set aside 1/2 cup choice pieces of cooked
vegetables to use as a garnish.  Puree the remaining cooked vegetable
together with the vegetable water in an electric blender, or press
through a strainer. Melt the butter in a soup kettle, blend in the
flour, and stir in the cream. Simmer over a low flame, stirring
constantly for 3 minutes. Stir in the pureed vegetable and the
remaining 2 cups of chicken stock, and simmer for 3 minutes more.
Adjust the seasonings and serve in individual bowls garnished with
the reserved cooked vegetable. Serve hot or cold.

Cream of Cauliflower Soup: Prepare soup as directed in Basic cream
soup. Garnish with reserved cauliflower and a sprinkle of paprika.
Serve hot or cold.

Cream Of Broccoli Soup: Peel the stems and break broccoli into
flowerets. Slice the stems. Proceed as directed in Basic cream soup
recipe. Serve with nutmeg sprinkled on top.

Cream Of Cucumber Soup: Reserve 1/2 cup diced raw cucumber to use as a
garnish.  Cook remaining cucumber for 8 minutes. Proceed as directed
in Basic cream soup recipe. Serve hot or cold with a dollop of sour
cream in the center of each bowl.

Cream Of Lima Bean Soup: Prepare soup as directed in Basic cream soup
recipe but do not reserve any lima beans. Serve hot, garnished with
crumbled bacon.

Cream Of Spinach Soup: Prepare soup as directed in basic cream soup
recipe, but do not reserve any spinach. Serve hot or cold, garnished
with hard-cooked egg yolks forced through a fine sieve.

Cream Of Asparagus Soup: Prepare soup as directed in basic cream soup
recipe.  Garnish with reserved asparagus tips and Pumpernickel
croutons. Serve hot or cold.

Posted by Pat Stockett. Courtesy of Fred Peters.

