Title: Boston Clam Chowder
Categories: Soup/stew, Seafood
Yield: 6 servings
-below the boiling
3    Cups+ of half-and-half and
-heated the chowder to just
I visited with the creator of this wonderful chowder and though he
did not give me the recipe, he did share some hints.  He uses only
cream and butter, no wimpy milk for him.  He starts with a roux with
chopped celery and onion and adds thyme, bay leaf and white pepper
for seasoning. If fresh clams are not available, he recommends Snow's
Chopped Clams.

Using his tips, what I know about clam chowder and a little research,
I created a very good clam chowder the other night.  I don't have the
ingredient amounts, but it doesn't really matter if you've had some
kitchen experience.  The real secret came from Chef Paul Prudhomme's
Louisiana Kitchen cookbook.  I figured if I was going to mess with a
roux, I might as well start with the expert roux maker.

I made a 50/50 oil/flour roux --- using 1/4 cup olive oil and 1/4 cup
butter and 1/2 cup flour.  I heated the oil as high as I dared and
put in about 1/3 of the flour allowing it to foam and let the
moisture in the flour escape --- be careful!  Roux can burn like
hellfire.  I continued to add the flour and cooked the roux to a
light golden color. I removed the roux from the heat and added about
1/2 cup finely chopped onions and 1/2 cup finely chopped celery.  The
hot roux cooks the veggies and the veggies cool down the roux.

I drained the liquid from 4 7-ounce cans of clams and added a 7- ounce
bottle of clam juice.  I put the clam nectar in a sauce pan and added
about 1 1/2 lbs of raw potatoes, peeled and cut into 1/2" cubes.  I
added some thyme and a couple of bay leaves and some freshly ground
white pepper.

When the potatoes were cooked, I added some of the roux to thicken the
chowder.  I ended up using all the roux.  I added the clams and about
point, stirring frequently and tasted it for seasoning adjustment.
Toward the end, I threw in a handful of real bacon bits for an added
smokey flavor.  I topped the pot with 1/2 cube of butter and let it
sit for about an hour to allow the flavors to blend.

The result was the best clam chowder I have ever made.  To complete
the dinner I served sweet cornbread and a carrot and raisin salad.

Sorry, the amounts are not precise, but if you plan ahead, it's
difficult to go wrong.

Posted by Al Martin. Courtesy of Fred Peters.

