Title: Canned Cake Hints
Categories: Dessert, Can/preserv
Yield: 1 servings
1 x  ELLIE COLLIN CMKD93F
I have a few more recipes but no time to upload them right now, I'll
do that later on this evening. BTW, ANY cake can be baked in canning
jars. I usually try one jar first--you have to know how much volume
each recipe will give you. I usually fill ONE jar 1/2 full then bake
it to see how high it rises. You don't want the cake to come out of
the top of the jar, only to within 1/4 to 1/2 inch from the lip of
the jar. Once you've established how high the cake rises, you can go
from there. The first time around is a bit tricky because you won't
know how many jars you'll need. MOST of the recipes I've tried I end
up using around 8. Sterilize as many jars as you think you'll need
and go from there. Also, the baking times will vary--the moistness of
each cake recipe will determine the time. Again, MOST of the recipes
I've tried bake in 35-40 minutes. Start checking the cakes at 30
minutes and go from there. YES, the cakes DO slide easily out of the
jars IF you use the jars I listed. They're Ball Quilted Crystal
Canning Jars (#14400-81400). They can be found at most grocery stores
(at least here in California) next to the pectin and other canning
supplies. Also, I've seen the 12 oz straight-sided (plain) jars (# ?)
at Smart & Final. The plain jars work fine too but they're not as
pretty and you have to make your own labels--the jars I use come with
decorative labels. One IMPORTANT tip--get your jars NOW! Once
summer's over with they're very hard to find. Also, when you can, ask
for the jars back, they're NOT cheap. Most folks don't mind returning
them though, they usually want refills! <G> Make sure your LIDS are
new, the rings don't have to be As the jars do seal, the cakes are as
moist as the day you put them into the jars--sometimes MORESO. There
will be a little condensation on the lids and some in the jars so
when you seal them it's trapped inside. Don't worry about getting the
water off of the lids before placing them onto the jars, the added
moisture doesn't hurt the cakes in the slightest. I'm trying to
address every question that's been asked of me before, I HOPE I've
done that. If I've missed anything or if anyone has any questions,
don't hesitate to ask. These make WONDERFUL Christmas gifts and you
can start NOW! Single friends really appreciate these because each
jar makes enough for one or two people.

