Title: Chicken Noodle Soup New Orleans Style
Categories: Poultry, Microwave, Soup/stew, Chicken
Yield: 6 servings
-regular tap water)
12 oz Broad egg noodles
2 tb Butter
1 c  Sliced onion rings
1 c  Sliced mushrooms (I left
-these out)
1 c  Diced carrots
1/4 c  Cream sherry
Salt and pepper to taste
Cathy Keller
1 lg Whole fryer
1 c  Diced onions
1/2 c  Diced celery
1/2 c  Minced parsley
4    Cloves minced garlic
1 c  Chopped carrots
3    Bay leaves
1 ts Poultry seasoning
4 qt Bottled water (I used
SOURCE

green onions for garnish (we didn't have any, but would imagine it
would be fantastic)

First, take the chicken and wash it thoroughly - that means both
inside and out!  Remove the giblets, scrub out the internal cavity
under cold running water, and scrape away anything that doesn't look
edible. (But DO NOT remove the chicken skin or any of the fat!  You
need the skin to make a rich stock.) Next, take a crock pot (see Note
below if you don't have a crock pot) and place the chicken and
giblets into it.  Then drop in the diced onions, the 1/2 c of celery,
the 1/2 c of minced parsley, the garlic, chopped carrots and bay
leaves, poultry seasoning and *2 * quarts of water. Then, with a
spoon, evenly distribute the seasoning mixture around the chicken,
turn the crock pot to high, and cook for at least six hours (or
better still, OVERNIGHT).  Remember, the longer you cook, the richer
the base stock and the more tender the chicken. While the chicken is
slow-cooking, it's a good time to prepare your noodles. Go ahead and
boil them according to package directions... but DO NOT COOK THEM
UNTIL DONE! Keep in mind that you're going to drop them into a soup,
so you want them el dente (firm), otherwise they'll turn to pure mush
by the time you eat them.  Furthermore, you want a small percent of
the starch in the noodles to cook into the soup to thicken it
slightly - if you cook the noodles all the way, the soup's
consistency will be flat and thin. After the noodles are cooked,
butter them slightly and set them aside. When the chicken is tender,
take a set of tongs or a strainer spoon, remove it from the crock pot
(it may tend to fall apart, but that's okay), and set it on a platter
to cool.  At this point, strain out all the seasoning vegetables from
the stock, place the stock into a metal bowl, and place the bowl into
the refrigerator or freezer until the chicken fat congeals (which
should take about 1 hour). Meanwhile, pick the chicken off the bones
and, with a sharp knife, chop it into bit-sized pieces. Then, in a
heavy 12-inch skillet, melt the butter and saute the sliced onions,
mushrooms, and carrots until they're tender.  Then drop in the
chopped chicken meat.  And over medium-low heat, cook it into the
vegetables for about 10 minutes. While the chicken and vegetables are
sauteing, remove the chicken stock from the refrigerator, skim off
all the fat, and place the skimmed stock into a soup pot, along with
the remaining 2 quarts of water. At this point, you should season the
soup stock to taste with salt and pepper. Now drop in the sauteed
chicken, mushrooms, onion rings and diced carrots - along with the
sherry, the Tabasco*, and as soon as it comes to a boil, reduce the
heat to low and simmer the soup for about 30 minutes to allow all the
flavors to thoroughly blend. When you're ready to eat, ladle out
heaping helpings of the piping hot soup into bowls, garnish with a
sprinkling of thinly sliced green onions, and serve with crunch
saltines.

*I just put a couple of drops of Tabasco in there -- Michelle, how
much are we supposed to put in there?

