Title: Chicken Enchiladas with Pasilla Chili Sauce
Categories: Poultry, Tex/mexican, Cheese/eggs, Chicken
Yield: 16 servings
1/2    Onion, quartered
4    Cloves garlic, peeled
2 tb Firmly packed golden brown
Sugar
1 ts Coarse salt
Peanut oil (for deep frying)
16    Corn tortillas
2 1/2 c  Grated Montery Jack Cheese
1 c  Creme fraiche or sour cream
1    Avocado, peeled, seeded,
Sliced
Fresh cilantro sprigs
2 tb Peanut oil
1    2-oz. package dried pasilla
Chilies, stemmed, seeded,
Torn into 1-inch pieces
1/2 c  Whole blanched almonds,
Chopped
4    Chicken breast halves
6 c  Chicken stock or canned
Low-salt broth
1/2 ts Cumin seeds
4    Plum tomatoes, cored,
Quartered
Heat 2 tablespoons oil in large pot over high heat.  Add chilies and
almonds.  Saute until chilies darken and almonds are golden, about 2
minutes.  Using slotted spoon, transfer chilies and almonds to bowl.
Reduce heat to medium.  Season chicken with salt and pepper.  Add to
same pot and brown on all sides, about 5 minutes.  Add stock; simmer
until chicken is cooked through, aobut 20 minutes.  Transfer chicken
to another bowl using slotted spoon; cool.  Reserve stock in pot.

Toast cumin seeds in heavy small skillet over medium-low heat until
aromatic, about 1 minute.  Mince cumin seeds.  Add cumin, chili
mixture, tomatoes, quartered onion, garlic, sugar and salt to stock.
Simmer until all ingredients are very soft, about 45 minutes.

Working in batches, puree stock mixture in blender.  Return to pot.
Boil until reduced to 4 cups, stirring occasionally, about 20
minutes. Season with salt and pepper.  (Can be made 1 day ahead.
Chill chicken and sauce separately.)

Remove skin from chicken and discard.  Cut meat from bones and shred.
Transfer to bowl and combine with 1/2 cup sauce.  Set filling aside.

Oil two 13X9-inch glass baking dishes.  Pour oil into deep skillet to
depth of 1/2 inch and heat to 375-degree F.  Fry tortillas 1 at a
time until softened, about 5 seconds per side.  Using metal sapatula,
transfer to paper towels.  Spread 1 tablespoon sauce over each
tortilla. Sprinkle each with 2 tablespoons cheese and 1 tablespoon
chooped onion. Place 1/3 cup chicken down center of each tortilla;
roll up. Place seam side down in baking dishes.  (Can be made 1 hour
ahead. Cover.)

Preheat oven to 350-degree F.  Pour remaining sauce over enchiladas.
Sprinkle with remaining cheese.  Bake until heated through, about 20
minutes.  Top with creme fraiche, avodado and clinatro.

SOURCE: BON APPETIT, April '93

