Title: Chicken and Vegetable Soup with Tiny Meatballs
Categories: Soup/stew, Poultry, Pork, Vegetable, Chicken
Yield: 6 servings
-Otalian bread
3 sm Cloves garlic
1    Egg
12 oz Boned and skin cooked
-chicken, coarsely diced
4 oz Best quality smoked ham,
-coarsely diced
Freshly ground black pepper
Small sprigs fresh basil
-and/or parsley
Unbleached all-purpose flour
Salt to taste
3 qt Chicken stock
1 tb Olive oil
1 tb Butter
2 md Onions, diced
2    Ribs celery, diced
1 md Carrot, scrubbed and diced
2 tb Tomato paste
1 tb Brandy
1 lg Turnip, peeled and diced
1/4 lg Butternut squash, peeled,
-seeded and diced
1    Thick slice crusty French or
Bring the stock to a boil in a large soup pot.  Turn the heat down to
low and let simmer, uncovered, while you continue.

Heat the oil and butter in a skillet over medium heat.  Add the
onions and saute for 2 or 3 minutes.  Add the celery and carrot;
saute for another 5 minutes, then add the vegetables to the simmering
chicken stock along with the tomato paste, brandy, turnip and
butternut squash. Simmer gently, covered, until the vegetables are
tender, about 15 minutes.

Meanwhile, make the meatballs.  In a food processor whizz together the
bread, garlic and egg for about 30 seconds until a smooth paste is
formed. Add the chicken, ham, pepper and the basil and/or parsley.
Pulse-chop 10 to 15 times, then process until a smooth, very thick
paste is formed.

Roll the meat paste into balls the size of a large marble.  Roll the
balls in the flour so that they are lightly dusted all over.

When the vegetables are tender, raise the heat slightly so that the
soup simmers with a little more intensity.  Drop the meatballs into
the soup and let cook for 5 to 7 minutes.  Taste for seasoning and
adjust if necessary. Be careful not to oversalt as the ham is salty.
Serve immediately.

Serves 6 to 8 as an entre with bread and salad.

NOTE:  This is even better the next day, but first remove the
meatballs and wrap them separately rather than storing them overnight
with the broth.

Dairy Hollow House Soup and Bread, A Country Inn Cookbook by Crescent
Dragonwagon.  Workman Publishing ISBN: 1-56305-243-1

Posted by Fred Peters.

