Title: Chocolate Orgasms
Categories: Chocolate, Cake/cookie, Dessert
Yield: 6 servings
1/2 c  Plus 2 Tbsp chopped walnuts
Frosting
1 1/2 oz Unsweetened chocolate
1/4 c  Evaporated milk
1/3 c  Sugar
4 oz Unsweetened chocolate
8 tb Unsalted butter, room temp
1 1/4 c  Plus 1 Tbsp. sugar
1/2 ts Vanilla extract
3 lg Eggs, room temp
3/4 c  All-purpose flour
Preheat the oven to 325 degrees.  Lightly grease an 8-inch square pan
with butter or vegetable oil.  Melt the chocolate and butter in the
top of a double boiler placed over simmering water.  Cool the mixture
for 5 minutes.

Place the sugar in a medium-size mixing bowl and pour in the chocolate
mixture.  Using an electric mixer on medium speed, mix until blended,
about 25 seconds.  Scrape the bowl with a rubber spatula. Add the
vanilla. With the mixer on medium-low speed, add the eggs one at a
time, blending after each addition until the yolk is broken and
dispersed, about 10 seconds. Scrape the bowl after the last egg and
blend until velvety, about 15 more seconds.

Add the flour on low speed and mix for 20 seconds; finish the mixing
by hand, being certain to mix in any flour at the bottom of the bowl.
Stir in 1/2 cup of the nuts.  Spread the batter evenly in the
prepared pan and sprinkle the remaining 2 Tbsp of nuts over the top.
Bake the brownies on the center oven rack until a thin crust forms on
top and a tester inserted in the center comes out with a moist crumb,
about 35 minutes. (The center of the brownies should never quite rise
to the height of the edges.)

Remove pan from oven and place on a rack to cool for 1 hour.

FROSTING: To prepare the frosting, melt the chocolate in the top of a
double boiler placed over simmering water. Pour the evaporated milk
into an electric blender and add the sugar and the melted chocolate.
Blend the frosting on medium-low speed until it thickens, about 50
seconds (the sound of the machine will change when this process
occurs.)

Using a frosting spatula, spread the frosting evenly over the surface
of the cooled brownies and allow them to sit for 1 hour before
cutting. Makes 36 small brownies.

FROM: Rosie's Bakery All-Butter Fresh Cream Sugar-Packed
No-Holds-Barred Baking Book by Judy Rosenberg.

