Title: Corn, Squash and Rice Loaves
Categories: Vegetarian, Main dish
Yield: 8 servings
1/2 ts Each:
Oregano
Dill
Salt
Pepper to taste
2 c  Zucchini; grated
2 c  Squash, yellow; grated
4    Scallions; chopped
4 c  Broccoli pieces; bite-sized,
-and florets; steamed
2 ts Margarine, nondairy
3 3/4 c  ;water
1 1/2 c  Rice, brown; raw
1/3 c  Margarine, nondairy
2 c  Onion; finely chopped
1    Bell pepper, green or red;
-diced
Egg replacer to equal 4 eggs
1/2 c  Soymilk
2 1/2 c  Nutritional yeast cheesy
-sauce
1 1/2 c  Corn kernels; cooked
1/4 c  Parsley, fresh
Bring the water to a boil in a heavy saucepan. Stir in the rice,
reduce the heat to a simmer, then cover and cook until the water is
abosrbed, about 35 minutes.
This may be done ahead of time.

Heat the margarine in a large skillet. Add the chopped onion and
saute over moderate heate until it is translucent. Add the diced bell
pepper and saute over moderate heat until the onion is golden. Remove
from heat.

In a large bowl, combine the egg replacer with the soymilk,
nutritional yeast cheesy sauce, corn kernels and herbs. Stir in the
cooked rice and the onion mixture and mix well. Add salt and pepper
to taste.

In the same skillet, combine the grated squashes with just enough
water to keep the bottom of the skillet moist. Cover and steam until
wilted, about five minutes. Stir in the scallions.

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees.

Oil two 9- by 5- by 3-inch loaf pans, preferably glass. Assemble as
follows: Transfer about one-fourth of the rice mixture to each of the
loaf pans and pat in. Divide the steamed squash evenly betwen the two
loaf pans and pat in over the rice mixture. Top each with the
remaining rice mixture. Sprinkle the tops with bread crumbs.

Bake for 60 minutes, or until the top and edges are golden and
crusty.

In the meantime, steam the broccoli until bright green and
crisp-tender. Drain and toss the vegetable with the margarine.

Once the loaves are done, cool for 10 minutes before slicing loaves
into 8 or 10 slices each, allowing for two slices per person. To
serve, arrange ths lices in an overlapping circular pattern on a
large platter.
Place the broccoli in the center.

From the files of DEEANNE

