Title: Flan
Categories: Dessert, Tex/mexican
Yield: 6 servings
1 ts To 2 ts fresh orange peel,
-orange part only
1/2 c  Sugar
6 lg Eggs
1 ts Vanilla
1 c  Sugar
1/2 c  Water
4 c  Whole milk or 1 can
-evaporated milk and enough
Whole milk to make 3-1/2
-cups
FLAN

In a small saucepan, combine 1 cup sugar and 1/2 cup water and bring
to a boil, stirring to dissolve the sugar.  Dip a brush in ice water
and use to wash down any sugar crystals clinging to the pan.  Let
boil, undisturbed, until it caramelizes.  As soon as the sugar syrup
turns an amber color, stir and take off heat.  Pour immediately into
a 9x5 loaf pan or an 8 cup ring mold, tilting pan quickly to coat the
bottom and sides with the caramel.  Set aside while making the
custard.

If using whole milk only, bring to a boil and simmer 12 to 15 minutes
to reduce to 3-1/2 cups.  If using a mixture of evaporated and whole
milk, simply bring to a boil.  Meanwhile, use the metal blade to
process the sugar and orange peel until the peel is grated.  Add eggs
and vanilla to workbowl and pulse 3-4 times to "beat" the eggs.  With
the machine running, add 1 cup of the hot milk through the feed tube.
Stop the machine and whisk the egg-milk mixture into the remaining
milk in the pan. Pour into the caramel lined pan or mold and place in
a larger pan half-filled with water. Bake the flan for 1 hour and 15
minutes in a pre-heated 350 degree oven until a knife inserted
off-center comes out clean and the custard is set.

Let cool, then chill at least 1-1/2 hours before unmolding.  Unmold
onto a deep serving platter allowing the caramelized sauce to run
over the custard.  Slice to serve and include some sauce in each
serving. Serves 8-10.

VARIATION:  You can add 1/4 teaspoon cinnamon (or 1/2 teaspoon ground
canela) to the custard with the vanilla.  You can also sprinkle 1/2
cup thinly sliced almonds over the caramel in the mold, adding
quickly before the syrup has hardened.  Proceed with the recipe as
above.

Enjoy!

~ Stephanie -

P.S. I have always used the combination of Evaporated and whole milk,
it turns out really wonderful.

