Title: Grilled Tofu with Sesame Buckwheat Noodles & Ginger Veggi
Categories: Chinese, Vegetarian, Pasta
Yield: 6 servings
1/4 c  Black vinegar
6    Cloves garlic, minced
1 ts Chinese five-spice powder
1/2 c  Peanut oil
1/2 c  Sesame oil
1/2 c  Red wine
1/4 c  Mushroom soy sauce
A beautifully compose plate with many flavors and colors.  Each
component is placed on the plate separately, making three little
groupings of bright and exciting tastes.  The noodles and tofu can be
made ahead, held at room temperature for an hour or so, leaving only
the vegetables to be sauteed at the last minute.

GRILLED TOFU MARINADE 4 "blocks" firm tofu

Combine the marinade ingredients in a large bowl.  Add the pieces of
tofu and cover with the marinade.  Let sit for 6 to 8 hours in the
refrigerator or 3 hours at room temperature.

Prepare charcoal grill.

Remove the tofu from the marinade and drain slightly.  Cook over
med-hot red coals, basting frequently with the marinade.  "Score" the
tofu on both sides making a cross-hatch pattern.  Cook until golden
brown, about 5 to 8 minutes on each side.  Remove from the grill and
set aside.

SESAME BUCKWHEAT NOODLES Sauce: 6 green onions, minced 4 cloves
garlic, minced 3 Tbs miso, red or white 3" piece ginger, peeled and
minced 2 jalapeno peppers, minced 1/2 c sesame oil 1/2 c peanut oil
1/4 c seasoned rice wine vinegar 2 Tbs sherry vinegar 3 Tbs soy sauce
salt and pepper to taste

1 c sesame seeds, toasted 1 to 1 1/2 lb buckwheat noodles

Combine the sauce ingredients in a large bowl.  Add half the sesame
seeds, mix well.  Cook the noodles in salted boiling water until al
dente; drain. Add the warm noodles to the sauce, toss and let sit for
about 20 minutes. Taste and adjust seasonings.

GINGER MIXED VEGETABLES

1 yellow onion, wedge cut 2 cloves garlic, sliced thin 1/3 c peanut
oil 6 or 8 shiitake mushrooms, sliced 1/4" wide small handful snow
peas, trimmed and strings removed 5" piece ginger, peeled and sliced
very thin 1 head broccoli flowerets only, blanched 2 carrots,
slivered and blanched splash of dry sherry salt and pepper, to taste
cilantro sprigs for garnish

To prepare the vegetables, saute the onion and garlic in some peanut
oil over high heat until onion is tender, but not soft or
translucent. Add the mushrooms, snow peas, and ginger.  Cook over
high heat, stirring constantly until the mushrooms are tender.  Add
the broccoli, carrots and sherry, cook for 1 more minutes and season
with salt and pepper.

To assemble:  Cut the tofu into slices about 1/8" thick.  On each
plate, arrange 3 or 4 pieces of tofu overlapping each other.  Spoon
some of the noodles onto each plate and finish with the vegetables.
The tofu and noodles are served at room temperature and the
vegetables are served hot. Garnish with a sprig of cilantro.

From "Glories of the Vegetarian Table" by Janet Hazen.

Posted by Theresa Merkling.

