Title: Herbed Lentil Loaf
Categories: Vegetarian, Main dish
Yield: 8 servings
-OR
2 ts Dried basil
1 ts Rubbed sage
1 tb Olive oi8l
3    Celery ribs, with leaves;
-finely chopped
1 md Onion; finely chopped
1 md Onion; finely chopped
3    Garlic cloves; minced
4 1/2 c  ;water
2 c  Lentils; picked over and
-rinsed
1/2 lb Firm tofu; crumbled
1/4 c  Rolled oats
1/4 c  Soy sauce
1/4 ts Freshly ground black pepper
1 c  Fresh parsley; minced
1/2 c  Fresh basil; finely chopped;
MMMMM--------------------------TOPPING-------------------------------
1 tb Soy sauce
1 c  Raw almonds
2 tb Nutritional yeast flakes
MMMMM--------------------MUSHROOM MISO SAUCE-------------------------
1 sm Onion; finely chopped
1 c  Mushrooms; thinly sliced
2 c  ;water
1/4 c  Whole wheat pastry flour
1/3 c  Nutritional yeast flakes
1/4 c  Brown rice miso
1 tb Olive oil
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. Lightly oil an 8 x 8 baking pan.

Put 3 1/2 cups of the water and the lentils in a large saucepan.
Cover and bring to a boil over medium-high heat, then immediately
reduce the heat andsimmer until the water is absorbed, 50 to 60
minutes.

Meanwhile, put the tofu, the remaining 1 cup water, the oats, soy
sauce and pepper in a blender and blend until smooth. Add the
parsley, basil, thyme, and sage and pulse just to mix. Transfer to a
large bowl.

Heat the olive oil in a large frying pan over medium-high heat. Add
the celery, onion, and garlic and cook until softened, about 6
minutes. Add to the tofu mixture.

Add the cooked lentils to the tofu-vegetable mixure, and stir to mix.
Press the mixture firmly into the prepared pan, and bake for 15
minutes.

Meanwhile, put the almonds, yeast flakes and soy sauce in a food
processor fitted with the metal blade, and pulse to coarsely chop.

Sprinkle the topping over the top of the lentil loaf and bake for 15
minutes more. Let the loaf cool for 10 minutes before cutting into
squares. Serve with the Mushroom Miso Sauce on the side.

Mushroom Miso Sauce:

Put the flour in a small dry frying pan over medium heat and toast,
stirring often, until it has darkened evenly to a light brown.
Transfer the flour to a medium bowl.

In a small bowl, stir the nutritonal yeast, miso and hot water
together.

In a medium saucepan, heat the olive oil over medium heat. Add the
onion and cook, stirring until softened, about 5 minutes. Add the
mushrooms and cook, stirring, until lightly browned, about 5 minutes.

Meanwhile, add the 2 cups water to the browned flour and whisk until
combined.

Whisk the flour mixture into the mushrooms, and simmer, whisking
often, until the mixture is thickened, 1 to 2 minutes. Stir in the
nutritional yeast and miso mixture. Bring just to a simmer, and
remove from the heat. Serve hot.

From DEEANNE's recipe files

