Title: Herman Starter
Categories: Bread, Sourdough
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM-----------------------I.E.S.JJGF65A----------------------------
MMMMM----------------------PHILLY.INQUIRER---------------------------
1 c  Sugar
2 c  All purpose white flour
2 c  Milk (see note)
2 tb Or 2 envelopes active dry
Yeast
1/4 c  Warm water
DAY,1: Sprinkle yeast over warm water.Add 1 tablespoon of the sugar
and let stand a few minutes until yeast is active and swelling.Combine
remaining sugar,flour and milk in a 4 t0 6 quart glass,plastic or
pottery bowl or container.(Do not use metal bowls or utensils as
these may retard starter growth.)With a wooden spoon,stir in active
yeast mixture.Cover loosely with a towel so Herman can breathe.Let
stand in a warm draft free place overnight.
DAYS,2,3,and 4:Stir daily with a wooden spoon.Keep covered.Keep
cool.
DAY,5: Stir in 1/2 cup sugar,1 cup milk and 1 cup flour.Let stand 24
hours.
DAYS,6,7,8,and 9:Stir daily with a wooden spoon.
DAY,10: Repeat DAY 5,stirring in 1/2 cup sugar,1 cup milk and 1 cup
flour.
THIS gives you enough starter to use freely in recipes and/or give
away. Herman may be replenished as needed but can go no more than 5
days at room temperature between feedings.After feeding,wait 24 hours
before using the renewed starter.
DAILY stirring helps keep yeast mold from forming.
Most directions specify that Herman not be refrigerated since cooler
temperatures slow the growth and "souring" of the starter.It
is,however,a safer course for busy cooks with fast growing
startersHerman also is freezer-friendly and may be kept on ice
between baking impulses if you get board.
NOTE: If desired,substitute butter-milk for milk in starter for more
flavor and less fat.If more starter is needed,additions may be
doubled when 2 or more cups of starter are used.....

AN ASIDE::: Marilyn Marter is a food columnist for the
Philly.Inquirer. Her speciality is finding recipes for people who
have lost them,or had heard of them from someone else.These are tried
and true recipes from people who use them all the time...I say
this,because I do not what anyone to think this starter is a flight
of fancy on my part or anyone elses.. Being ignorant of these matters
I have copied this recipe verbatem... Please enjoy,as soon as I get
my Breadmachine I will join you all in trying this....Irwin E.

