Title: Iranian Stuffed Peppers
Categories: Beef
Yield: 6 servings
1 1/2 c  Beef or chicken broth
1 c  Parsley, fresh chopped
1 c  Green onions, chopped
2 tb Dill weed, dried
1 ts Tarragon, dried, crushed
1 ts Mint, dried, crushed
6 lg Green or red bell peppers
1 c  Beef broth
2 tb Butter or margarine
2 tb Butter or margarine
1 lg Onion, chopped
1/2 lb Ground lean beef or lamb
1 cn Tomato sauce (8 oz.)
Salt & pepper to taste
1/2 ts Sugar
Grated peel of 1 lemon
3 tb Lemon juice
1 c  White rice
Melt 2 tb. butter or margarine in a large saucepan. Add onion and
saute until tender. Add meat and cook until browned and crumbly. Add
half the tomato sauce, salt and black pepper. Cook 1 minute. Add
sugar, lemon peel, lemon juice and rice. Cook and stir until rice
glistens. Add 1 1/2 cups broth and bring to a boil. Reduce heat and
cover. Simmer over low heat 10 minutes or until liquid is almost
absorbed. Stir in parsley, green onions, dill, tarragon and mint and
cook for 5 minutes. Preheat oven to 350F. Cut a thin slice from stem
end of each pepper; reserve to use as lids. Remove seeds and white
membranes from peppers. Place peppers in a large baking pan. Spoon
meat mixture into peppers. Combine remaining ingredients, including
remaining tomato sauce, in a small saucepan. Heat until butter or
margarine melts. Pour over stuffed peppers and cover with reserved
lids. Cover baking pan with foil. Bake 1 hour or until peppers are
tender and filling is done. ** Stuffed Cabbage: Cook 1 whole medium
cabbage in boiling water 8-10 minutes, depending on size. Drain and
cool. Separate leaves and place 1 tbs. filling on each leaf. Roll up,
tucking in edges. Place cabbage rolls in a large baking pan, making a
single layer. Continue with recipe. ** Stuffed Tomatoes: Substitute 8
large tomatoes for the green peppers. Cut a thin slice from each stem
end. Scoop out pulp and add to meat mixture. Heat 5 minutes before
stuffing tomatoes. Continue with recipe. ** Stuffed Eggplant:
Substitute 8 long Japanese eggplants for the green peppers. Slit each
eggplant lengthwise without cutting all the way through. Heat 1/2 cup
vegetable oil in a large skillet. Cook each eggplant in hot oil until
blistered on all sides. Remove from skillet, drain on paper towels
and let cool. Stuff with meat mixture. Continue with recipe.

Source: Middle Eastern Cooking by Rose Dosti.

