Title: King Arthur Flour - Baking Tips
Categories: Bread, Information
Yield: 1 servings
-KING ARTHUR FLOUR HINTS
-DEBBIE CARLSON   (PHHW01A)
1.  Yeast Proofing:  To "proof" yeast, first dissolve the
sugar (about 1 Tbsp. for each 2 cups liquid) or other
sweetener in warm water (about 95 degrees) and then add
your yeast.  Wait several minutes for it to dissolve
and begin to "work", or develop tiny bubbles.  If it
doesn't show signs of life, discard it and try another
batch.  Because yeast doesn't like salt, add it after
the yeast is "proofed".

2.  A Better Measure:  Because flour settles and compacts
in storage, fluff it up before you measure.  Then,
gently sprinkle it into your measuring cup and scrape
the excess off with the back of a knife.  This will
insure a 4 oz. cup of flour rather than the 5 oz. you
would have if you scooped it out with your cup. 3. Rest When You
"Knead" It!:  After 3 or 4 minutes of
kneading dough, let it rest for a few minutes.  The
rest relaxes the dough and makes the remaining kneading
easier.

4.  Liquid Assets:  Instead of the water your recipe calls
for, try juices, bouillon, or water you've cooked
vegetables in.  Instead of milk, try buttermilk,
yogurt, or sour cream.  It can add a whole new flavor
and improve nutrition.

5.  Sweeteners:  Even though you don't need it when making
bread, a little sugar can bring out flavor, just as
salt can.  For added moisture, try honey, maple syrup,
or regular or dark unsulphured molasses.

6.  Oil for Longevity:  If you don't mind a few extra
calories (12 to 15) per slice (a slice of bread without
fat has only 60 to 65 calories!), add a couple of
tablespoons of butter or vegetable oil to your dough,
and your bread will stay fresher for a longer period. 7. Storing
King Arthur Flour:  If you use your flour
fairly quickly, store it in a cool, dry cupboard and
stick a couple of bay leaves in the bag to discourage
any visitors.  If you use your flour more slowly,
especially your whole wheat, put it in a lock-type
plastic bag and store it in your freezer. 06/30 09:22 pm LORELI
Loafing and Laughing in Ocala,L
FOOD AND WINE BB TOPIC: BREADS BY MACHINE TIME: 06/30 9:24 PM

LORELI AGUDA   (WSKD49A) FROM: LORELI AGUDA (WSKD49A)
TO:
SUBJECT: "MEGA 500+" FOR JUDY

