Title: Lyonnaise Oyster Stew
Categories: Seafood, Soup/stew
Yield: 8 servings
-or Swiss
1/4 c  Vegetable oil
3 c  Bread - white, crustless
-cubed
1 c  Whipping cream
1/8 ts Nutmeg - fresly grated
1 pt Oysters - shucked, with
-their liquor
1/4 c  Parsley - finely chopped
3 lg Leeks - unblemished, about 1
-1/2 pounds
3    Med. potatoes - about 1 1/4
-pounds
3 tb Butter
6 c  Water
Salt and freshly ground
-pepper to taste
1/4 lb Cheese - preferably Gruyere
1.  Trim off the root ends and most of the green part of the leeks.
Reserve the white part of the leeks plus a small part of the green.
Split the white part in half and rinse thoroughly between the leaves.

2.  Cut the leeks lengthwise into thin strips and then crosswise into
very small cubes.  There should be about 5 cups.

3.  Peel the potatoes and cut them lengthwise in half.  Cut each half
crosswise into very thin slices.  There should be about 4 cups.

4.  Heat 2 tablespoons butter in a large saucepan and add the chopped
leek. Cook, stirring often, for about 5 minutes.  Add the potatoes
and water and bring to a boil.  Add salt and pepper.  Simmer for 20
minutes. Drain in a colander.  Reserve both the liquid and solids.

5.  Meanwhile, finely grate the cheese.  There should be about 1 cup.

6.  Heat the oil and remaining 1 tablespoon butter in a heavy skillet
and add the bread cubes.  Cook, shaking the skillet and stirring,
until the cubes are golden brown.  Drain in a sieve.

7.  Put the leek and potato solids in a food processor or blender.
Blend thoroughly while adding small amounts of the reserved cooking
liquid. Add only enough liquid to make a fine puree.

8.  Combine the puree with the remaining liquid in a kettle and bring
to a simmer.  Add the cream and salt and pepper to taste.  Add the
nutmeg and heat thoroughly.

9.  Add the oysters with their liquor and cook briefly or just until
the oysters curl.  Serve sprinkled with the parsley and with the
croutons and cheese on the side.

Yield:  6 to 8 servings.

Recipe from "Cuisine Rapide" by Pierre Franey and Brian Miller.

Posted by Michelle Bass. Courtesy of Fred Peters.

