Title: Mole Poblano Picante
Categories: Poultry, Soup/stew, Tex/mexican, Chocolate, Turkey
Yield: 6 servings
1/8 ts Cinnamon
1/2 ts Ground coriander seed
1/4 ts Anise
1/2 c  Raisins
3    Tomatoes, seeded, chopped
4    Canned chipotle chiles
2 oz Unsweetened chocolate
Salt
Freshly ground pepper
1 ts Sugar
8    Mulato chiles
4    Ancho chiles
4    Pasilla chiles
8 lb Turkey, in pieces
4 tb Lard
4 tb Sesame seeds
1 lg Onion, chopped
2    Cloves garlic, chopped
1    Tortilla, cut up
1 c  Blanched almonds
1/8 ts Ground gloves
Prepare the mulato, ancho, and pasilla chiles by washing in cold
water; removing veins, stems, and seeds; and tearing them roughly
into pieces. Place the pieces in a bowl and soak in hot water (about
1 cup to 6 chiles) for about an hour. Blend the chiles with the
soaking water in a blender, but do not over blend. The texture should
remain coarse.

Place the turkey pieces in a flameproof casserole with a lid, and
poach, covered, in salted water to barely cover for 1 hour. Drain,
reserving the stock. Dry the turkey pieces thoroughly with paper
towels. Heat the lard in a skillet, and brown the turkey pieces, a
few at a time. Arrange the turkey pieces in the casserole and keep
warm. Combine 2 tbs of the sesame seeds, the onion, garlic, tortilla,
almonds, cloves, cinnamon, coriander seed, anise, raisins, tomatoes,
prepared chiles, and chipotle chiles, and reduce, bit by bit, to a
coarse puree in the electric blender.

Heat the remaining lard in a skillet, adding, if necessary, a little
more lard to bring it up to 3 TBS. Cook the puree, stirring
constantly, for about 5 minutes. Add 2 cups of the turkey stock,
chocolate, salt and pepper to taste, and the sugar, and cook, over
very low heat, until the chocolate has melted. Pour the sauce over
the turkey; cover; and cook over the lowest possible heat for 1 hour,
stirring occasionally. The sauce should be rather thicker than the
consistency of heavy cream. If it seems too thin, thin with turkey
stock. Sprinkle with remaining sesame seeds just before serving.

NOTE: Chipotle chile and its close relative morita chile have the most
exotic flavor of any of the Mexican chiles. They are also exceedingly
picante and can really lift your head off. If you do not care for hot
food, experiment with the chipotle, for even in a small quantity its
flavor will survive. Begin with a half chile, tasting and adding more
to your mole with caution until you find the amount that suits your
taste.

