Title: Nori-Maki Sushi
Categories: Vegetarian, Side dish, Appetizer
Yield: 6 servings
1/2 ts Salt
8    Nori sheets (use pretoasted
-nori, especially made for
-making sushi)
2 c  Sticky rice
2 1/4 c  ;water
1/3 c  Vinegar, rice
1 1/2 tb Sugar, granulated
MMMMM-------------------------VEGETABLES------------------------------
Avocado
Carrot
Zucchini
3 tb Wasabi powder; divided
Ginger, pickled
-Choose from among the
-following vegetables:
Daikon radish, raw or
-pickled
Cucumber; peeled, seeded
-and quartered lengthwise
MMMMM-----------------------DIPPING SAUCE----------------------------
1/4 c  Sake or dry sherry
3/4 c  Vegetable stock
1/2 c  Soy sauce
Soak the rice in a bowl of cold water. Swish around with your hands
and drain when the water becomes cloudy. Fill with water again and
repeat the procedure until the water remains very clear.

Place the rice in a heavy 4-quart saucepan. Add the water and cover
with the lid. Bring the water to a boil without lifting the lid
(watch for the lid jiggling). Reduce the heat to medium high and cook
for 5 minutes. Listen for a hissing or crackling sound to indicate
that the water has been absorbed. Remove from the heat, and still
without lifting the lid, let the rice stand for 20 to 30 minutes.

Transfer the rice to a large bowl. Toss with a Japanese paddle or a
wooden spoon until it stops steaming.

In a small bowl, combine the vinegar, sugar and salt.
Stir until the sugar is dissolved. Sprinkle into the rice, a little
at a time, and toss in. Cover the vinegared rice mixture with a clean
tea towel and set aside until needed. Don't refrigerate it.

Use one shee of nori as a guide for cutting the vegetables. The
vegetables you use should be cut into very thin, very long
matchsticks; their length should match the width of a sheet of nori.
The exception to this is avocado, which won't be long enough, but
this isn't a problem because of its soft texture. Just cut the strips
lengthwise. The idea is to use about 6 strips of vegetable in each
sushi roll; you may use one type of vegetable in each roll, or
combine two, for example, cucumber and avocado.

Take a tablespoon of the wasabi powder and combine it in a small
bowl with enough water to make a thin paste.

Place a sheet of nori, shiny side down, on a sudare, a bamboo mat
made expressly for rolling sushi (available at oriental markets).
Dampen your hands and spread 3/4 cup of the vinegared rice over the
surface of the nori, leaving a 1/2 inch border on the end nearest you
and a 2 inch border on the end farthest away.

Abuot 1 1/2 inches from the side closest to you, paint a stripe of
wasabi paste (use very little) across the rice. Lay 6 or so strips of
vegetable atop the stripe.
Lift the side of the mat closest to you and roll it over so the nori
is tightly rolled over the rice and vegetables. Wet the far end of
the nori and continue the rolling motion until the result is a snugly
closed roll.

Lay the rolled nori seam-side down on a board, adn repeat with the
remaining sheets of nori.

You'll need a very sharp knife to cut the rolls. Wet the knife
lightly and cut each roll into six equal sections. Arrange on a large
platter.

In a small bowl, combine the remaining wasabi with enough water to
make a fairly thick paste, thicker than what you made for the sushi
rolls. Guests should take a small dab on their plates to be spread on
the sushi rolls if they'd like. Put some pickled ginger in another
small bowl. Let each guest take a slice or two.

Dipping sauce:

Combine the ingredients in a mixing bowl. Divide the dipping sauce
among six small Oriental bowls and set next to each guest's plate for
dipping the sushi rolls.

Vegetarian Celebrations by Nava Atlas/MM by DEEANNE

