Title: Passover Dark Chocolate Nut Cake
Categories: Cake/cookie, Chocolate, Dessert
Yield: 10 servings
1/4 c  Sugar
DARK CHOCOLATE GLAZE:
1 c  Semisweet chocolate pieces
1 ts Butter or margarine
1/2 ts Instant coffee crystals
1 tb Hot water
3 tb Dairy sour cream
1/4 ts Maple flavoring
10    To 12 eggs
3 oz Unsweetened chocolate
1/2 c  Semisweet chocolate pieces
2/3 c  Sugar
2 c  Very finely chopped almonds
-or pecans
3/4 ts Pure vanilla
1/4 ts Almond extract
Servings: 10 to 15

DIRECTIONS: Set a large mixer bowl in a sink filled with 2 inches of
warm water. Separate eggs (you should have about 1 1/2 cups whites).
Pour the whites into the warm mixer bowl and place yolks in a smaller
mixer bowl (or let separated eggs stand, covered, at room temperature
for 30 minutes).

Meanwhile, in a small, heavy saucepan, partially melt unsweetened
chocolate and semisweet chocolate pieces over low heat. Turn off heat
and stir (chocolate will continue to melt).

Cut a waxed paper liner for the bottom of a 10" tube pan, cutting it
1/2" wider than the pan and the center hole slightly larger than the
tube. Grease pan thoroughly. Place liner in pan and grease liner.

Beat egg yolks with an electric mixer on high speed for about 4
minutes or till they're thick and lemon colored. Add the 2/3 cup
sugar, beating till very thick. Stir in the melted chocolate and
chopped nuts.

Thoroughly wash and dry beaters. Beat egg whites with vanilla and
almond extract till foamy. Gradually add the 1/4 cup sugar to egg
whites, beating till soft peaks form.

Lighten egg yolk mixture with about 2 cups beaten egg whites. Add to
the remaining egg white mixture and fold together to combine. Turn
batter into prepared pan.

Bake at 350-F for about 40 minutes or till top springs back when
lightly touched. Run a knife around the edge of the pan and center to
loosen. Cool in pan for 1 hour. Invert onto cake plate. Remove waxed
paper.

Prepare glaze; spread over top and sides of cake.

Dark Chocolate Glaze: In a small heavy saucepan or skillet, melt
chocolate over low heat. Remove from heat and stir in butter or
margarine. In a small bowl, dissolve instant coffee in hot water.
Stir in the sour cream and maple flavoring. Add sour cream mixture to
chocolate, stirring till smooth and shiny. Makes 3/4 cup.

Source: Midwest Living Magazine, April 1991

From: Sallie Austin

