Title: Reine De Saba
Categories: Cake/cookie, Chocolate, Dessert
Yield: 6 servings
1    Stick butter
1/2 ts Almond extract
CHOCOLATE GLAZE*
3 oz Semisweet chocolate
2 oz Butter
Slivered almonds for garnish
per serving:
Approx. Cook Time: Cholesterol per
4 oz Semisweet chocolate
4 oz Slivered almonds
2/3 c  Confectioners sugar - PLUS 2
-tablespoons
1/2 c  Cake flour
3    Eggs
Calories
grams per serving:
serving: Marks:

*DIRECTIONS*

*For the nicest looking shiny glaze, serve this cake on the day it is
completed.  The cake remains moist and delicious, however, for several
days.

PREPARATION: Heat oven to 325F. Butter and flour an 8-inch square or
10-inch round cake pan. Cut the 4 ounces of chocolate into small
pieces and melt in the top of a double boiler set over hot water,
stirring frequently. Remove pan from hot water and cool slightly. In
a food processor, nut grinder or blender, grind the 4 ounces of
almonds to a powder. If you use a processor or blender, put 2
tablespoons of the sugar in the machine along with the nuts.  Put
ground nuts through a sieve to get rid of any remaining chunks.  Toss
the powdered almond mixture with the flour. Separate the eggs.  Beat
together the butter and 1/3 cup of the remaining sugar until creamy
and light. Add the melted chocolate and the extract. Add the egg
yolks, one at a time, beating thoroughly after each addition. Beat
the whites to stiff peaks, add the remaining sugar, and beat until
glossy. Fold in nut mixture.  Gently followed egg white mixture into
chocolate just until incorporated. Pour the batter into the prepared
pan. Bake in a preheated oven until a toothpick inserted in the
center of the cake comes out almost clean, about 30 minutes. Cool in
the pan for about 10 minutes. Divide into individual servings if
desired. Recipe can be made to this point up to a day ahead.

CHOCOLATE GLAZE: Heat the chocolate and butter in the top of a double
boiler set over hot water, stirring frequently, until just melted.
Remove from hot water. Cool the chocolate glaze just until it
thickens. It should remain pourable. Glaze whole cake or individual
servings on a rack set over a pan to catch drippings. Garnish with
almonds if desired.

Serve at room temperature or refrigerate for up to 4 days.

Serves 6.

Recipe from Cook's Magazine, September/October, 1987.

