Title: Rhode Island Red Chowder
Categories: Soup/stew, Seafood
Yield: 8 servings
1 bn Flat leaf (Italian) parsley
2    Bay leaves
2    Sprigs fresh thyme
4    Ripe tomatoes
1 tb Tomato puree
2 lg Potatoes
Salt
Freshly ground black pepper
Cayenne pepper
16 lg Qauhogs (2 cups chopped
-meat)
2 c  Dry white wine
2    To 3 cups bottled clam broth
-(or fish stock)
1/4 lb Salt pork
1 lg Onion
2    Stalks celery
2    Cloves garlic
Here is how Boston chef William Poirer makes red chowder, and it is
good enough to convert the most diehard white chowder fanatic.

Scrub the qauhogs and place them in a large, covered pot with the
wine. Steam them for 10 to 15 minutes or until the shells just open.
Shuck the quahogs and grind, using a meat grinder or food processor.
Strain the cooking liquid through damp cheesecloth - you should have
6 cups. If necessary, add clam broth or fish stock to make up the
difference.

Finely dice the salt pork.  Fry the salt pork slowly in a large pot
over low heat to render the fat.  Transfer the cracklings with a
slotted spoon to a paper towel to drain.  Meanwhile, finely chop the
onion and celery. Mince the garlic.  Tie half of the parsley and the
other herbs into a bouquet garni.  Finely chop the remaining parsley.
Peel, seed and coarsely chop the tomatoes.  Peel and dice the
potatoes into a bowl of cold water to prevent them from browning.

Saute the onions, celery, garlic and bouquet garni in the rendered
fat over medium heat for 3 to 4 minutes, or until soft but not
browned. Add the tomatoes and tomato paste, increase the heat to
high, and cook for 1 minute.  Add the 6 cups of clam liquid and bring
to a boil.  Add the potatoes, reduce the heat, and simmer for 8 to 10
minutes, or until tender.

Just before serving, stir in the quahog meat and salt and pepper to
taste. Garnish the chowder with the chopped parsley and the salt pork
cracklings and serve at once.

Serves 8.

[Steven Raichlin; The Baltimore Sun; Sept 22, 1991]

Posted by Fred Peters.

