Title: Spicy Vegetable Couscous
Categories: Vegetarian, Main dish
Yield: 8 servings
-pepper; seeded, sliced
1/2 ts Saffron threads
3/4 lb Carrots; thickly sliced
3/4 lb Turnips; peeled and cut into
-wedges
Salt, pepper to taste
3/4 lb Zucchini; thickly sliced
Cayenne
2 c  Couscous (heaping)
1/2 c  ;water
1 bn Cilantro;chopped
Juice of 1/2 lemon (opt)
Whole sprigs of cilantro
-and harissa sauce for
-garnish
1/3 lb Chickpeas or white beans,
-dried; washed, picked over,
-soaked overnight or for
-several hours, drained
1 lg Or 2 small onions; sliced
4    Garlic cloves; minced or
-put through a press
2    Leeks, white part only;
-carefully cleaned and
-sliced
1    Bay leaf
6 c  ;water
1 lb Tomatoes; peeled, coarsely
-chopped OR
1 cn Tomatoes (28 oz); drained
1    Jalapeno orother hot green
Combine the beans, onion, half the garlic,leeks, bay leaf, and water
in a large,heavy-bottomed soup pot or a couscoussier.Bring to a boil,
cover, reducethe heat, and simmer one hour.

Add the tomatoes,jalapeno, saffron, remaining garlic, carrots,
turnips, salt and pepper to taste. Cover and simmer another hour. Add
the zucchini and cayenne to taste. Simmer for another 30 minutes, por
until the squash is tender. Adjust the seasonings.

Place the couscous in a large bowl or a casserole.
Combine 2 cups broth from the vegetablemixture and 1/2 cup water.
Gradually sprinkle this onto the couscous.
Add mor waterif necessary to cover the couscous. Let the couscous
sit for 20 minutes; stir with a wooden spoon or your hands every 5
minutes or more to prevent lumping. The couscous should swell and
soften. Add salt to taste.

Heat the cooked couscous through for 15 to 20 minutes in the top
part of your couscoussier, or in a strainer or steamer that fits
tightly over your soup pot, or in acoverd baking dish in amediumoven,
or in a microwave for 1 to 2 minutes.

Just before serving, bring the vegetable mixture back to a simmer
andstir in the chopped cilantro and optional lemon juice. To serve,
spoon the couscous into warmed wide flat soup bowls andladle on a
generous helping of soup.Garnish with sprigs of cilantro andpass the
harissa, with a small bowl of broth so that people can dissolve the
harissa in a spoonful before adding it to the couscous.

Note: Harissa is a fiery hot condiment that is traditional with North
African dishes such as couscous. Packed in tubes, it is sold in
specialty food stores and Middle Eastern markets.

serving size=2 cups 151 calories 1.2 g fat 0 mg chol 126 mg sodium w/o
added salt

Eat More, Weigh Less, by Dean Ornish, M.D./MM by DEEANNE

