Title: Spring Vegetable Stew
Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
Yield: 4 servings
-DEBORAH MADISON
Makes 4 servings

Serve this stew as a main course or side dish. If you like, add thin
shavings of a good dry cheese, such as Parmigiano-Reggiano.

3 med-sized leeks, the white parts only, sliced in 1/4-in rounds 2 lge
artichokes Juice of 2 lemons 3/4 lb fava beans, shelled (if
available) 1 lb thick asparagus 1 T butter 1 T virgin olive oil 4 or
5 small garlic cloves, unpeeled Salt 1 1/2 C water 6 small turnips,
peeled and halved 6 small carrots, peeled and halved lengthwise 1 lb
fresh peas, shelled, or 1 C frozen peas Additional butter, to taste
Plenty of chopped fresh herbs, such as parsley, thyme, basil,
marjoram Freshly milled pepper

WASH THE SLICED LEEKS really well, as they are always sandy. Trim the
artichokes. (See instructions in the recipe "Artichokes and Peas.")
Keep the finished pieces in a bowl covered with water and the juice
of one lemon. Bring a large pot of water to a boil, add the fava
beans, and cook for about a minute. Scoop them out and put them in a
bowl of cold water, reserving the cooking water. Slip each bean out
of its skin and set aside. Cut the top 3 inches off the asparagus.
(Save the stalks for soup.) If the tips are very thick, slice them in
half lengthwise. Warm the butter and olive oil in a wide skillet and
add the leeks, artichokes, garlic, and salt lightly. Toss to coat
everything with the oil and squeeze the juice of the second lemon
over all. Cook gently for several minutes, without frying, then add
the water. Simmer, partially covered, for about 15 minutes or until
the artichokes are tender but still a little firm. Make sure there is
always some liquid in the pan, adding more water as needed in small
increments. Return the water used for the fava beans to the heat and
bring to a boil. Separately blanch the turnips, carrots and asparagus
and add them to the stewed vegetables along with the fresh peas. (If
you're using frozen peas, add them during the last 2 minutes or so.)
Cook gently until all the vegetables are tender and the liquid is
reduced to a syrup. Taste for salt. Stir in the additional butter and
the herbs and season with pepper. Converted by MMCONV vers. 1.40

