Title: Stuffed Caribbean Pork Roast
Categories: Meat, Microwave
Yield: 6 servings
-drained
1    Large, ripe banana, chopped
1 c  Shredded Jarlsberg cheese
1 ts Lime zest
2 tb Fresh lime juice
2 tb Dark rum
2 tb Pineapple juice
1/4 ts Ginger
3 lb Center-cut loin pork roast
1 tb Jerk seasoning
1/2 c  Finely chopped celery
2    Green onions, thinly sliced
1    Clove garlic, minced
1 ts Margarine
2 c  Cooked rice
1    8 oz can, crushed pineapple,
MMMMM-----------------------JERK SEASONING----------------------------
1 tb Ground allspice
1 ts Dried thyme leaves
1/2 ts Ground nutmeg
1/2 ts Cayenne pepper
2 tb Fresh lime juice
4    Green onions, chopped
1    Garlic clove
1    Hot chili pepper, such as
-jalapeno or Scotch bonnet,
-seeded
TO PREPARE JERK SEASONING: Combine green onions, garlic, chili
pepper, allspice, thyme, nutmeg, cayenne, and lime juice in a
blender; puree the mixture. Store in a covered glass container in the
refigerator. Makes 1/3 cup.
To use, rub 2 teaspoons jerk seasoning over the surface of the meat.
Let stand at least one hour before cooking. Overnight marinating
enhances flavor.

PREPARE MEAT: Have butcher crack the rib bone along the length for
easy serving. Cut pockets across the loin at 3/4" intervals to hold
the stuffing. Rub jerk seasoning over roast, place in oven roasting
bag and refigerate at least 2 hours or overnight.
To calculate microwave cooking time, allow 12-13 minutes per pound of
roast on medium (50 %) power.
Combine celery, onions, garlic and margarine in a 2-quart glass
measure; cover with vented plastic wrap and microwave on high 2 1/2
minutes. Add rice, pineapple, banana, cheese, lime zest, lime juice,
rum, pineapple juice and ginger; stir to combine.
Spoon stuffing into pockets in roast and place the remainder in a
1-quart casserole. Return roast to oven cooking bag and close the end
of the bag loosley, leaving an opening the diameter of a quarter.
Place bag with meaty side down in a 2-quart rectangular dish.
Microwave on medium power for half the calculated time.
Turn roast over and continue to microwave on medium for remainder of
the time determined. At the end of the cooking time, roast should
reach 150 degrees internally. Cover with foil and let stand 10
minutes until temperature has reached 160 degrees. If it has not,
remove foil and microwave meat 5-10 minutes longer, or until it
reaches the temperature.
During standing time, microwave remaining stuffing on high 3 minutes.

Source: Houston Chronicle

