Title: Truly Yeast Bread (Gluten Free)
Categories: Vegetable, Bread
Yield: 6 servings
1/2 c  Lukewarm water
1 1/2    Yeast cakes, or 1 1/2
-tablespoons yeast granules
1/4 c  Shortening
1 1/4 c  Water
1 ts Vinegar
3    Eggs
3 c  GF Flour Mix (recipe
-follows)
1/4 c  Sugar
3 1/2 ts Xanthan gum
2/3 c  Dry milk powder
1 1/2 ts Salt
2 ts Sugar
It is not easy to turn out a yeast bread recipe without wheat that
smells, slices and tastes like wheat bread. This recipe is adapted
from the nutrition dept. of the Univ. of Washington School of
Medicine.

Combine flour, sugar, xanthan gum, milk powder, and salt in bowl of
heavy duty mixer.  Use your strongest beaters.

Dissolve the 2 teaspoons of sugar in the 1/2 cup of lukewarm water
and mix in the yeast.  Set aside while you combine the shortening and
1 1/4 cups water in saucepan and heat until shortening melts.

Turn mixer on low.  Blend dry ingredients and slowly add shortening
and water mixture and the vinegar. Blend, then add the eggs. This
mixture should feel slightly warm.

Pour the yeast mixture into the ingredients in the bowl and beat at
highest speed for 2 minutes.

Place mixing bowl in a warm place, cover with plastic wrap and a
towel, and let the dough rise approximately 1 to 1 1/2 hours or until
doubled. Return to mixer and beat on high for 3 minutes. Spoon the
dough into 3 small (2 1/2" x 5") greased loaf pans or 1 large one.
Use muffin tins and bake any remaining as small rolls. Or make all
rolls (approximately 18).

Let rise until the dough is slightly above the top of pan. Bake in
preheated 400 degree oven for 10 minutes. Place foil over bread and
bake large loaves 50 minutes longer, small loaves slightly less time,
and rolls about 25 minutes.

NOTES:  The dough texture will seem more like cookie dough than bread
dough, so don't be alarmed.  Bread is better when baked in small loaf
pans and delicious in rolls. I have successfully doubled the recipe
to turn out 2 large loaves plus 18 rolls in the muffin tins or 3
small 2 1/2" x 5" loaves plus 24 rolls.  This bread freezes well. For
convenience, slice before freezing. This bread may be made with
either brown or white rice flour in the GF flour mix.

GF flour mix:    2  parts white rice flour 2/3 part potato starch
flour 1/3 part tapioca flour

Source:  The Gluten-Free Gourmet by Bette Hagman

NOTE:  The book says xanthan gum is necessary for all yeast recipes
to help make the breads springy and chewy. It helps to replace the
gluten the rice and potato flours lack.

Posted by Patty Smith.

