Title: Yummy Cabbage Rolls
Categories: Vegetarian, Main dish
Yield: 6 servings
1/4 ts Celery seed
4 tb Tamari
1/2 c  Tomato paste
2 c  Brown rice; cooked
1/2 c  Nuts; chopped
16 oz Tomatoes, canned; with their
-juice
10 oz Sauerkraut
1 md Cabbage
2 1/2 c  Tofu; crumbled
8 c  ;water; boiling
2 tb Olive oil
1    Celery stalk; chopped
1 ts Basil
1/2 ts Cinnamon
1 ts Thyme
1/4 ts Cloves
Cut the core out of the cabbage and discard it.Place the cabbage,
stem end down, in a large kettle. Place about 1 inchof water in the
bottom of the ketle. Cover and bring the water to a boil. Reduce the
heat to a simmer and steam the cabbage for about 10 minutes.

Remove the cabbage and let it cool for easier handling. Save the
remaining water for use in soups or stews, if desired.

While the cabbage cools, drop the crumbled tofu into the 6-8 cups
boiling water. Bring the water back to a boil andlet the tofu cook
for 1 minute. Drain the tofu through a colander lined with a clean
dishtowel. Run cold water over the tofu to cool it off for easier
handling. Twist the towel containing the tofu and pres sit to squeeze
out the excess water. The pressed tofu should have a firm,
ground-beef-like texture. Set the tofu aside while you prepare the
remaining ingredients.

Heat the olive oil in a large skillet. Add the onion, celery, herbs
and spices. Saute until the onions begin to get tender. Add the
pressed tofu to the sasuteed vegetables and stir over medium heat for
a couple of minutes. Add the tamari, tomato paste, rice, and nuts.
Mix well and remove from heat.

Carefully peel the leaves away from the steamed cabbage. Inside each
of teh larger leaves, palce one small leaf. Cut away the thick, tough
part of the leaves.

Drop one heaping tablespoon of the tofu-rice filling into the center
of each small leaf. Fold both the top and the bottom of the large
leaf over the filling, then fold the two sides over the seam. Palce
the cabbage rolls seam side down on your table or countertop.

Mix together the tomatoes and sauerkraut and place half of the
mixture in the bottom of a large, shallow baking dish or in two 7- x
11-inch baking dishes. Set the cabbage rolls seam side down on top of
the tomato-sauerkraut mixture over the cabbage rolls.

Cover the baking dish(es) with aluminum foil and bake at 350 deg for
45-60 minuts, oruntil the cabbage is tender. Uncover the cabbage
rolls during the last 10 minutes of baking.

From the files of DEEANNE

