Title: BOHEMIAN CHICKEN & DUMPLINGS
Categories: Chicken, Ethnic
Yield: 4 Servings
MMMMM---------------------CHICKEN AND GRAVY--------------------------
4    Chicken quarters, skinned
-if desired to reduce fat
1 lg Onion, halved and sliced
2 ts Paprika
1 ts Marjoram or to taste
Salt to taste
1/4 ts Black Pepper
3 tb Butter or Margarine
3 tb Flour
4    Drops Bead Molasses
-(optional)
MMMMM-------------------------DUMPLINGS------------------------------
3 sl White Bread, day old
Milk
2    Eggs
1 ts Marjoram
Salt to taste
2 ts Butter, melted-NO MORE
Bread Crumbs
Chicken & Gravy Place chicken with onion, paprika, marjoram and
pepper in a large stick pot, with enough water to cover (at least 8
cups). Bring to boil. Reduce heat and SIMMER until tender, about 40
min or until no red juices come out when pierced with a fork. Remove
chicken and cover to keep warm.  Save the stock.

Prepare dumplings as below.  Roll the dough into one inch diameter
dumplings and drop into gently boiling stock. Boil over medium heat
for 25 minutes, turning over after 12 minutes. Remove dumpling and
keep warm with the chicken.  Save stock.

Make a roux by melting the butter in a small skillet. Add the flour
to the skillet and cook, stirring constantly until the mixture is the
color of a new penny.

Add enough of this roux mixture to the boiling stock to make a medium
thick gravy. If lumps form, whisk them out with a wire whisk. Add a
few drops of bead molasses if you wish for color and adjust spices
with paprika, marjoram, pepper and salt to taste.  (I like more
pepper in mine.) Simmer 5 minutes.

Return meat and dumplings to gravy and reheat all to just a simmer.
Remove from heat. Let stand in hot gravy for 10 before serving.

DUMPLINGS Soak bread in milk. Squeeze out surplus milk. Shred bread
into bowl. Add eggs, marjoram. salt and melted butter. Mix well. Add
enough bread crumbs to make mixture into 1 inch balls that will NOT
become fuzzy when boiled.  Test one by dropping into boiling stock,
then adjust crumbs as needed. Cook as above.

My grandma used to serve steamed cauliflower with this dish. We would
ladle the gravy over the cauliflower, too. It tasted great. Walt MM
Lou Stanek

A retired guy who loves to cook for his kids!

