Title: BONE A FIDOS
Categories: Cookies, Christmas
Yield: 80 Servings
2 1/4 ts Dry yeast (or 1 packed
Tablespoon compressed fresh
Yeast
1/4 c  (liquid measure) warm water
Pinch of sugar
3 1/2 c  All-purpose flour
2 c  Whole wheat flour
2 c  Cracked wheat OR
1 c  Cornmeal
1 c  Rye flour
1/2 c  Nonfat dry milk (lightly
Spooned into the cup)
4 ts Kelp powder
4 c  Beef or chicken broth
(liquid measure)
MMMMM---------------------------GLAZE--------------------------------
1    Large egg
2 tb Milk
Equipment: Cookie sheets lined with parchment or aluminum foil;
rolling pin; 3-31/2" bone cutter or 2 1/2" round cookie cutter.

Place 2 oven racks in the upper and lower thirds of the oven. Preheat
oven to 300F.

Sprinkle the dry yeast or crumple the compressed yeast over the water
(110F if dry yeast, 100F if compressed yeast). Add a pinch of sugar
and allow the yeast to sit in a draft-free spot for 10-20 minutes.
The mixture should be full of bubbles.  If not, the yeast is too old
to be useful.

In a large bowl, place all the dry ingredients and stir to blend
them. Add the yeast mixture and 3 cups of the broth. Using your
hands, in the bowl, mix to form the dough, adding more broth if
needed to make the dough smooth and supple.  Half a batch at a time,
knead the dough briefly on a lightly floured counter. (Keep the
second batch of dough covered with a moist towel while shaping and
cutting the first.)

Roll out the dough into an 18 x 13 x 1/4" rectangle. Cut it into
desired shapes, using a 3 - 3 1/2-inch bone cutter or a 2 1/2-inch
round cookie cutter. Reroll the scraps. Repeat the procedure with the
remaining dough.

For an attractive shine, lightly beat together the egg and milk.
Brush the glaze on the cookies.

Bake for 45 to 60 minutes or until brown and firm. For even baking,
rotate the cookie sheets from top to bottom three quarters of the way
through the baking period.

Use a small, angled metal spatula or pancake turner to transfer the
cookies to wire racks to cool completely.

Store in an airtight container at room temperature. The dough must be
used immediately.  The baked cookies will keep for many months.

Allow cookie sheets to cool completely between batches.

From: Rose's Christmas Cookies by Rose Levy Beranbaum

