Title: BOUDIN BLANC
Categories: Cajun, Meats
Yield: 15 Servings
3 ea 3' hog sausage casing
3 lb Boneless lean pork,
1 x  Trimmed of excess fat and
1 x  Cut into 1 1/2 inch chunks
4 c  Coarsely chopped onions
1 ea Mdm bay leaf, crumbled
6 ea Whole black peppercorns
5 ts Salt
1 c  Coarsely chopped green peppe
1 c  Coarsely choped parsley
1 tb Finely chopped garlic
2 1/2 c  Freshly cooked white rice
1 tb Dried sage leaves
1/2 ts Freshly ground black pepper
1\2 c  coarsely chopped green onions 2 1\2 t cayenne Boudin is the
French term fo the blood sausage, or "pudding," made with the blood
of the pig. Boudin blanc is a white sausage made with pork but no
blood. This Louisiana version adds rice and is even whiter. Makes 3
sausages, each about 30 inches long.
Place the sausage casing in a bowl.  Pour in enough warm water to
cover it and soak for 2 - 3 hours, until it is soft and pliable.
Meanwhile, put the pork in a heavy 4-5 quart casserole and add
enough water to cover it by 1 inch. Bring to a boil over high heat
and skim off the foam and scum that rise to the surface. Add 2 cups
of onion, the bayleaf, peppercorns and 1 tsp salt. Reduce heat to low
and simmer, partially covered, for
1 1/2    hours.
With a slotted spoon, transfer the chunks of pork to a plate. Put
the pork, the remaining 2 cups of onions, the green pepper, parsley,
green onions and garlic through the medium blade of a food grinder
and place the mixture in a deep bowl.  Add the rice, sage, cayenne
and black pepper and the remaining 4 tsp of salt. Knead vigourously
with both hands, then beat with a wooden spoon until the mixture is
smooth and fluffy. Taste for seasoning.
To make each sausage, tie a knot 3 inches from one end of a length
of the casing.  Fit the open end over the funnel (or "horn") on the
sausage making attachment of a meat grinder.  Then ease the rest of
the casing onto the funnel, squeezing it up like the folds of an
accordion.
Spoon the meat mixture into the mouth of the grinder and, with a
wooden pestle, push it through into the casing. As you fill it, the
casing will inflate and gradually ease away from the funnel in a
ropelike coil. Fill the casing to within an inch or so fo the funnel
end but do not try to stuff  it too tightly, or it may burst. Slip
the casing off the funnel and knot the open end. You may cook the
sausages immediately or refrigerate them safely for five or six days.
Before cooking a sausage, prick the cawsing in five or six places
with a skewer or the point of a small sharp knife. Melt 2 Tbsp of
butter with 1 Tblsp of oil in a heavy 12 inch skillet set over
moderate heat. When the foam begins to subside, place the sausage in
the skillet, coiling it in concentric circles. Turning the sausage
with tongs, cook uncovered for about 10 minutes, or until it is brown
on both sides.

