Title: BOUILLABAISSE~ PART 2 OF 2
Categories: Soups
Yield: 4 Servings
See Part 1
: Continued from Part 1

NOTES:

*  Marseille-style fish soup -- A friend and I had been talking about
the glories of bouillabaisse for the past year and we finally decided
to use New Year's Eve as an excuse to fish rather than continuing to
cut bait, ad nauseam.  The following recipes are a combination of
several derived from old issues of _Gourmet_, Julia Child, the
"Playboy Gourmet Cookbook," and "gee, that sounds good, let's add it."

*  The accompanying Rouille is a garlic-hot pepper mayonnaise
condiment traditional to Marseille-style fish soup. Rouille is
traditionally made with a mortar and pestle but I prefer to use a
food processor, it's just too much work otherwise. Pass the rouille
as a condiment. Usually about 1 T per serving is sufficient, this
stuff is the essence of garlic and hot pepper.

*  If you can't get fish trimmings for the court bouillon, add
bottled clam juice and shrimp and lobster shells.

*  To be truly authentic, our bouillabaisse should have included eel,
but my friend was a bit squeamish about that so we left it out.
Basically, any combination of shellfish and firm-fleshed fish can be
used with the more variety the better.  I dislike using crab since it
flakes so easily and is lost in the broth. If you can't get live
lobsters, substitute frozen lobster tails but be careful not to
overcook.

*  Use saffron threads, rather than saffron powder which tends to be
adulterated with safflower and not the same thing at all. Be
conservative with the saffron, a little goes a long way and can give
the dish a medicinal taste.

*  We preceded our dinner with herbed leek and prosciutto tartlets
served with champagne. Dinner included bouillabaisse; a
hearts-of-palm salad with pimento and greek olives and vinaigrette
dressing; lots of crusty french bread to soak up the broth; a dry
white wine (Duckhorn Sauvignon Blanc '84); and my friend's mother's
sponge cake with whipped cream icing, fresh raspberries and raspberry
sauce, accompanied by Asti Spumante.

: Difficulty:  moderate to hard.
: Time:  2 hours.
: Precision:  approximate measurement OK.

: Pamela McGarvey
: UCLA Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, Los Angeles, California, USA
: {ihnp4!sdcrdcf,ucbvax!ucla-cs,hao}!cepu!pam

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

