Title: BOURRIDE OF MAHI MAHI WITH GARLIC MAYONNAISE
Categories: Seafood, Sauces
Yield: 4 Servings
2 tb Dry white wine
1 ts Saffron
2 tb Pernod
4    Mahi mahi fillets (6 oz ea)
2 tb Olive oil
3    Fennel bulbs; stems removed
- (reserve the stems), cores
-  removed, and julienned
1    Sprig fresh thyme
1    Tomato; diced
Salt and pepper (to taste)
1 c  Vegetable oil
MMMMM---------------------GARLIC MAYONNAISE--------------------------
1    Bulb garlic; cloves peeled,
-  and finely chopped
1    Egg yolk
1 tb Dijon mustard
Salt and pepper (to taste)
1 c  Olive oil
1 tb -Boiling water
In a small saucepan place the white wine and bring it to a boil. Add
the saffron and stir it in so that it is dissolved. Remove the pan
from the heat and let it cool. Add the Pernod and stir it in.

In a medium bowl pour the wine mixture.  Add the mahi mahi and coat
it with the sauce.  Let the fish marinate for 2 hours.

In a small skillet place the olive oil and heat it on medium high
until it is hot.  Add the julienned fennel, thyme, tomatoes, salt,
and pepper. Saut‚ the ingredients for 2 to 3 minutes, or until the
fennel is tender. Set the mixture aside and keep it warm.

In a large saucepan place the vegetable oil and heat it on high until
it is hot.  Add the reserved fennel stems and deep-fry them for 1 to
2 minutes, or until they are crisp. Drain them on paper towels, set
them aside, and keep them warm.

Grill the mahi mahi for 3 to 4 minutes on each side, or until it is
just done.

In the center of each individual serving plate place a fish fillet.
Place the saut‚ed fennel mixture next to the fish. Spoon the Garlic
Mayonnaise between the fish and the fennel mixture. Place the
deep-fried fennel on top of the fish for a garnish.

For Garlic Mayonnaise: In a small bowl place the garlic, egg yolk,
mustard, salt, and pepper.  Whisk the ingredients together so that
they are well blended.

While whisking constantly, slowly add the olive oil so that a
mayonnaise consistency is achieved.

Add the boiling water to the mayonnaise, and stir it in well.

Strain the garlic mayonnaise and keep it warm until it is served.

