Title: BOW TIE PASTA WITH BLACKENED SCALLOPS-DALEY
Categories: Pasta, Seafood, Low-fat/low
Yield: 4 Servings
FOR THE PEPPER SAUCE-----
2    Red bell pepper -- roasted
1/3 c  Shallot -- chopped
1    Clove Garlic
1 tb Sherry Vinegar
3/4 c  Seafood Stock
1 tb Dried basil
FOR THE CILANTRO PESTO-----
2 tb Walnuts -- chopped
2    Cloves garlic -- peeled
1 1/2 c  Fresh cilantro leaves
1/4 c  Seafood stock
3 tb Lemon juice
8 oz Pasta -- bow tie shaped
1 lb Scallops, large
4 tb Blackening seasoning
1 tb Paprika
1 ts Dried thyme
1/2    Lemon
Note: Seafood Stock can be made from fish-flavored bouillon cubes,
available in most supermarkets.

Bring a large pot of water to a boil over high heat.

In the meantime, make the pepper sauce.  Put the roasted peppers,
shallots, garlic and vinegar in a blender and puree until smooth. Add
1/2 cup of the seafood stock and the basiland mix until blended.
Transfer the mixture to a small saucepan, cover, and warm over the
lowest heat setting.

For the cilantro pesto, put the walnuts, garlic and cilantro in the
bowl of a food processor. Turn the machine on and add 1 tablespoon of
the seafood stock through the feed tube. Drizzle in the lemon juice
to form a paste. Transfer the contents of the food processor to a
small mixing bowl and whisk in another 3 tablespoons of the stock.

When the water comes to a boil, add the pasta to the pot. Cook for 8
to 10 minutes, to desired tenderness. Drain.

Dust the scallops with the blackening seasoning, paprika and thyme.
Heat a heavy frying pan for 2 to 3 minutes over medium heat. Spray
the pan with vegetable oil. Add the prepared scallops and sear them
for 2 minutes on each side. Reduce the heat to low and squeeze the
lemon over the scallops. Cover and cook for 5 minutes, until the
scallops are firm.

Return the drained pasta to the pot. Over low heat stir in the
cilantro pesto.

Divide the pasta among 4 bowls.  Place 4 scallops on top of each and
pour the pepper sauce over the scallops.

Calories per serving= 314 IN THE
Fat per serving= 4.0 grams
KITCHEN WITH ROSIE  by  Rosie Daley

:
Recipe By

