Title: BRAISED LAMB SHANKS WITH ROASTED GARLIC & WHI
Categories: Meats, Main dish, Low-cal, Vegetables
Yield: 4 Servings
1 c  Dried Cannellini, great
- Northern or navy beans
1 lg Head garlic
1 tb Olive oil
4    Lamb shanks, trimmed of fat
- and membrane (1 pound)
2 sm Carrots, peeled and diced
1    Onion, chopped
1    Stalk celery, diced
1/2 c  Dry red wine
1/2 c  Defatted beef stock
28 oz Plum tomatoes, drained
- (1 can)
2 tb Chopped fresh rosemary -or-
- 2 ts dried
1    Bay leaf
Salt and freshly ground
- pepper to taste
Sort beans, discarding any debris.  Rinse and place in a large bowl.
Cover with cold water and let soak for at least 8 hours of overnight.
Alternatively, in a large pot, cover beans with water and bring to a
boil. Boil for 2 minutes.  Remove from the heat and let stand for 1
hour. Preheat oven to 300 degrees.  Remove as much of the outer husk
of the garlic as possible without separating the colves. Wrap loosely
in aluminum foil and bake for 30 minutes. Unwrap foil and separate
the cloves slightly so that they cook evenly. Wrap again and bake for
30 minutes longer, or until the garlic is very soft.  Set aside to
cool.  Increase oven temperature to 325 degrees. In a Dutch oven,
heat 1 1/2 teaspoons oil over medium-high heat. Add lamb shanks and
brown on all sides. Remove from the pan and drain on paper towels.
Add the remaining 1 1/2 teaspoons oil to the pan, then add carrots,
onions and celery; saute for 2 to 3 minutes, or until softened. Add
wine and cook until it has reduced by half, 5 to 7 minutes. Stir in
beef stock, tomatoes, rosemary and bay leaf. Peel half the roasted
garlic cloves and add to the pan; bring to a boil. Return the meat to
the pan, cover tightly and place in the oven. Bake for 1 1/2 to 2
hours, turning the shanks occasionally, or until the meat is very
tender. Meanwhile, drain beans and place in a large heavy pot. Add
water to cover by about 4 inches and bring to a boil. Reduce heat to
low and simmer for 45 minutes to 1 hour, or until the beans are
tender. Drain. (This recipe can be prepared ahead to this point.
Cover and refrigerate the stew and beans separately for up to 2 days.
Lift off fat that has solidified on the surface of the stew and
reheat before proceeding.) With tongs, transfer the shanks to a
plate, cover and keep warm.  Remove bay leaf from the sauce and skim
off fat.  Boil the sauce for about 5 minutes, or until slightly
thickened. Peel the remaining roasted garlic and add to the sauce
along with the drained beans.  Heat through and season with salt and
pepper. Mound the bean mixture on a platter and place the lamb shanks
on top. Serves 4. CALORIES: 445 PER SERVING; PROTEIN: 40 GRAMS; FAT:
10 GRAMS; CARBOHYDRATE: 46 GRAMS; SODIUM: 518 MILLIGRAMS;
CHOLESTEROL: 89 MILLIGRAMS.

