Title: BRAISED DUCK WITH ORANGE-AND-LIME SAUCE (ZANZ
Categories: African, Poultry, Ceideburg 2
Yield: 1 Servings
5 lb To 5 1/2 pound duck
1/4 c  Vegetable oil
2 c  Chicken stock, fresh or
-canned
12    Whole cloves
1    Fresh hot chili *
1/2 c  Strained fresh orange juice
2 tb Strained fresh lime juice
1/2 c  Finely chopped sweet bell
-pepper, preferably red
1/4 ts Salt
Orange wedges or slices studded with whole cloves for garnish

* about 1 1/2 to 2inches long, stemmed and seeded [The typical
cautions about being careful with the things. S.C.]

Preheat the oven to 350F.  Pat the duck completely dry inside and out
with paper towels, and remove the large chunks of fat from the
cavity. Cut off the loose neck skin and truss the bird securely, then
prick the surface around the thighs, the back and the lower part of
the breast with a skewer or the point of a sharp knife.

In a heavy 5- to 6-quart casserole, heat the oil over moderate heat
until a light haze forms above it.  Add the duck and, turning it
frequently with a slotted spoon or tongs, cook for about 15 minutes,
or until it browns richly on all sides.  Transfer the duck to a plate
and discard the fat remaining in the casserole. Pour in 1 cup of the
chicken stock and bring to a boil over high heat, meanwhile scraping
in any brown particles that cling to the bottom and sides of the pan.
Stir in the cloves and chill, then return the duck and the liquids
that have accumulated around it to the casserole.

Cover tightly and braise in the middle of the oven for 1 hour. Remove
the duck to a plate, and with a large spoon skim as much fat as
possible from the surface of the cooking liquid. Discard the cloves
and chili.

Add the remaining cup of stock to the casserole and, stirring and
scraping in the brown bits that cling to the pan, bring to a boil
over high heat. Mix in the orange juice, lime juice, sweet bell
pepper and salt. Return the duck to the casserole and baste it with
the simmering sauce. Cover tightly and return the duck to the oven
for about 15 minutes. To test for doneness, pierce the thigh of the
bird with the point of a small, sharp knife. The juice should trickle
out a clear yellow; if it is slightly pink, cook the bird for another
5 to 10 minutes.

Place the duck on a heated platter and pour the sauce over it.
Garnish the platter with the orange wedges or slices and serve at
once.

From "African Cooking", Foods of the World Series, Time-Life Books,
N.Y., 1970.

Posted by Stephen Ceideberg; November 20 1992.

