Title: BRAZILIAN PASSION CAKE
Categories: Cakes, Desserts
Yield: 10 Servings
MMMMM----------------------CASHEW NUT CRUST---------------------------
1/2 c  Unsalted cashews
2 c  Vanilla wafer cookie crumbs
4 tb Unsalted butter, melted
MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
11    Ripe passion fruits
2 tb Water
2 ts Vanilla extract
1 ts Unflavored powdered gelatin
8 oz Cream cheese, softened
1 cn (14-oz) sweetened condensed
-milk
1 ts Lemon juice
1 c  Heavy cream
MMMMM-------------------PASSION FRUIT TOPPING------------------------
3 tb Water, divided
1 ts Unflavored powdered gelatin
2 tb Granulated sugar
1    Ripe passion fruit
Make the cashew nut crust: 1.Position a rack in the center of the
oven and preheat to 350 F. Remove the bottom from an 8 1/2-by-3-inch
springform pan. Trim a 9-inch cardboard cake circle so that it fits
snugly within the curved lip of the bottom of the springform pan.
Cover the bottom with a piece of heavy-duty aluminum foil, leaving a
2-inch overhang all around the edge. Carefully attach the side of the
pan so you do not tear the foil.

2.In a food processor fitted with the metal blade, process the
cashews, pulsing the machine on and off, until finely ground.
Transfer the ground cashews to a medium bowl; stir in the cookie
crumbs and melted butter until combined. Press the mixture evenly
onto the bottom and up the side of the prepared pan. Bake the crust
for 12 minutes, until lightly browned. Cool the crust on a wire rack.

Make the filling: 1.Using a serrated knife, cut the passion fruits in
half. Scrape the seeded orange pulp of the fruits into the bowl of a
food processor fitted with the metal chopping blade. Process the pulp
for 15 to 20 seconds. Pass the passion fruit puree through a fine
sieve into a small bowl. Remove 1/4 cup of the puree to a small cup,
cover and set aside for the passion fruit topping.

2.Place the water and vanilla in a small heatproof cup; sprinkle the
gelatin over the mixture and allow it to soften for 5 minutes . Place
the cup with the softened gelatin in a saucepan with enough water to
come halfway up the side of the cup. Heat the gelatin mixture over
hot, not simmering, water. Stir the gelatin frequently for 3 to 4
minutes, or until the gelatin granules dissolve completely and the
mixture is clear. Remove the pan from the heat.

3.In a medium bowl, using a hand-held electric mixer, beat the cream
cheese for 30 seconds, until smooth. Add the condensed milk and the
reserved passion fruit puree and beat the mixture for an additional
minute, scraping the bottom of the bowl as necessary. Whisk in the
lemon juice and the warm gelatin mixture.

4.In a chilled, medium bowl, using a handheld electric mixer, beat the
cream until soft peaks start to form. Do not overheat. Fold one-third
of the cream into the passion fruit mixture to lighten it. Fold in the
remaining whipped cream.

5.Scrape the filling into the cooled crust. Refrigerate the cake for 3
hours, until the filling is firmly set.

Make the passion fruit topping: 1.Place 2 tablespoons of the water in
a small cup. Sprinkle the gelatin over the water; allow the mixture
to soften for 5 minutes.

2.In a small saucepan, combine the remaining tablespoon water, the
reserved passion fruit puree, and the sugar. Cut the remaining
passion fruit in half and scrape the orange seeded pulp into the pan.
Cook the mixture over medium-low heat, stirring constantly, until the
sugar is dissolved. Add the softened gelatin mixture and cook the
mixture for 3 minutes, stirring constantly, until the gelatin is
dissolved. Remove the mixture from the heat and cool for 10 minutes.

3.Pour the cooled passion fruit topping over the top of the chilled
cake, tilting the cake to cover the top evenly. Refrigerate the cake
for 1 hour, until the topping is set.

4.Remove the side of the springform pan and transfer the cake to a
serving platter. Cut the cake with a sharp, thin-bladed knife,
dipping the blade in hot water and wiping it dry after each slice.

