Title: BREAST OF CHICKEN WITH CARROT & CUMIN BROTH
Categories: Bistro, Chicken ent
6 lg carrots -- thinly sliced
Yield: 4 Servings
2 1/2 TB olive oil
2/3 c  chopped white onion
2    cloves garlic -- crushed
1 TB fresh ginger root -- minced
2 TB fresh lemon juice
2 c  water
1/2 ts cumin seed
2 TB chopped fresh parsley
Salt and pepper
:
4    6-oz chicken breast halves
-boneless (about 6 oz each)
:

Fill a saucepan three-fourths full with water and bring to a boil. Add
two-thirds of the carrots and return to a boil. Cook the carrots
until they are tender when pierced with a knife about 5 minutes.
Drain and set aside.

In a saute pan over medium-high heat, Warm 1 1/2 tablespoons of the
olive oil. Add the onion and garlic and saute until soft and
translucent, 3-4 minutes. Add the ginger and sautefor 1 minute
longer. Then add the remaining carrots and stir for 30 seconds. Add
the lemon juice, water and cumin seeds and bring to a boil. Cover,
reduce the heat to medium and simmer until the carrots are tender,
5-7 minutes.

Pour the contents of the saute pan into a food processor fitted with a
metal blade or a blender and process or blend on high speed until
smooth, 1-2 minutes.

Pour the sauce through a fine mesh sieve back into the saute pan. Add
the reserved boiled carrots and the parsley and bring to a boil.
Reduce the heat to low, cover and keep warm while you cook the
chicken.

In a large saute pan over high heat, warm the remaining 1 tablespoon
olive oil. Rub salt and pepper to taste onto both sides of the
chicken breasts. Add the chicken to the hot pan, skin side down, and
cook for 1-2 minutes. Reduce the heat to medium and continue to cook
the chicken, turning it occasionally, until opaque throughout when
pierce with a knife, 12-15 minutes.

Transfer the chicken breasts to the carrot-cumin broth, turning to
coat them completely.

To serve, transfer the chicken breasts to warmed shallow bowls and
spoon the carrot-cumin broth over the tops.

Gerald Hirigoyen (1995). Bistro:  Best of Casual French Cooking.
Sunset Books, CA. Part of a series: Casual Cuisines of the World.
[Mastercook 16 Oc 96: Submitted by PATh: 375cals/22g fat]

: Gerald Hirigoyen, Bistro (1995)
Recipe By

Date: Thu, 17 Oct 1996 09:29:47
~0700 (

