Title: Bagels
Categories: Breads, Breakfast
Yield: 18 servings
2 c  Water, hot (120-130 deg)
3 1/2 qt Water with 1 Tbs. of malt sy
1 ea Egg white, beaten, mixed wit
1 ea Toppings (onion, garlic, pop
5 1/2 c  Flour, all purpose, approx.
2 pk Yeast, dry
1 tb Sugar
1 tb Salt
2 tb Malt syrup
3 1/2 qt Water with 1 Tbs. of malt syrup in it :: 1 ea Egg white,
beaten, mixed with 1 tsp. water :: 1 ea Toppings (onion, garlic,
poppy or sesame seed...) MIXING, KNEADING, AND 1ST RISE: Mix all dry
ingredients, including yeast, thoroughly.  Mix malt syrup and water.
Make sure the temperature is between 120 and 130 degrees.  Add hot
water mixture and stir vigorously with a wooden spoon or your hand.
When is blended together, remove from bowl and knead (By hand: 10
minutes.  By food processor: 1 minute). Add a little flour if too
wet. . .a little water if too dry.  Place in clean, greased bowl,
cover tightly and allow to rise until doubled in volume, about 1
hour).  Punch down.
PREPARATION:  Boil water with 1 T. malt syrup in large pan (The malt
syrup makes the bagels shine). Prepare cookie sheet sprinkled with
corn meal or polenta. Preheat oven to 400 degrees.
SHAPING AND 2ND RISE:  Either (1) Flatten and cut into eighteen 6"
strips, or (2) Divide dough into 18 pieces, each a little larger
than a golf ball (whichever shaping method tickles your fancy).
Allow dough to relax for 5 minutes. If you chose #1, join the 2 ends
together. If you chose #2, flatten the dough ball with palm of hand.
Poke a hole in the middle, push finger through, and swing around on
your finger until the hole looks large enough (remember that the
hole will get smaller during the water bath). Cover with cloth and
allow to rise slightly for 10 minutes, no more (It will rise more in
the water bath).
WATER BATH:  Just before bagels are ready to cook, reduce the heat
under the water to a gentle bubble.  Drop bagels with a skimmer or a
slotted spatula or spoon into water bath. Only do 4 or 5 at a time
(so they have enough room to expand a little). With the water at a
simmer, cook 2 minutes on one side, flip it over and cook 1 minute
on the other. Remove from water bath, drain momentarily on a paper
towel, and place on cookie sheet.
BAKING, EGG WASH, TOPPINGS: Place cookie sheet of bagels into oven,
middle shelf, and bake for 10 minutes. Remove and brush with egg
wash (egg white beaten with 1 tsp. cold water).  Sprinkle topping of
choice on top (sauteed onions or garlic, soaked (reconstituted)
dehydrated onions onions or garlic, Kosher salt, poppy seeds, sesame
seeds, what have you), and return to the oven.  Bake another 5 to 10
minutes, turning them over 3 or 4 minutes before they are done.
Cool on a rack.
Variation: Add rum soaked raisins to dough before kneading. Top with
cinnamon sugar during baking.

