Title: Cider Marinated Beef Roast
Categories: Beef, Main dish, Meats
Yield: 8 servings
1 ts Salt
1 ts Thyme
1 ts Mustard, dry
1 ts Allspice
1/2 ts Black pepper, fresh ground
2 tb Cornstarch
4 lb Boneless rump, sirloin tip
2 c  Apple cider
2/3 c  Salad oil
1 tb Lemon juice
1/2 c  Chopped onion
3    Cloves garlic, smashed
1    Bay leaf
Here's  a boneless beef roast marinated in a flavorful apple-cider, onion-
garlick mixture.  Surprisingly good.  The meat must be cooked to RARE or
MEDIUM-RARE for its optimum tenderness, which may be bad news for those of
you who like it well-done, but well-done, in this case, will prove to be
tougher than the medium-rare.  The acidic action of the cider makes all
the difference in  the world in terms of tenderness.   Combine that  with
the marinating and the slow roasting, tenderness IS the name of the game.
You can garnish this one with crab apples and parsley for making pretty.
Directions for beef roast:
Make a couple of dozen slits in the meat on the outside about an inch
deep.  Place in a glass or plastic bowl. Combine the apple cider, oil,
lemon juice, onion, garlick, bay leaf, salt, thyme, allspice, mustard and
pepper; pour the marinade over the meat. Cover and marinate in the
refrigerator at least four hours. Maybe more. Remove the roast from the
marinade. Place on a roasting pan and insert the meat thermometer so it
reaches the thickest part. Roast at 300 degrees until the thermometer
reaches 140 degrees, about 2 hours for rare meat (meat continues to cook
after it is out of the oven). Remove onto a warm platter.  Strain the
marinade.   Skim the fat from the roasting pan, and add the marinade to
the drippings.   Reserve 2 to 3 tbsp of the marinade liquid to mix with
the cornstarch.   Stir the cornstarch into the boiling  liquid and cook
until thickend.   Glaze the roast with the sauce.    Slice  *very thinly*
to serve.  Especially  good served with potato casserole (or the new
potato-garlick  recipe you just saw posted here), glazed carrots, green
salad, garlick bread.

