Title: Spicy Somen with Steak Strips, Chilies and Mint
Categories: Beef, Meats, Main dish
Yield: 4 servings
6 tb vegetable oil, divided use
2 ea serrano chilies, halved
2 tb soy sauce
2 tb oyster sauce
1 ea Juice of 2 limes
1/2 c  Beef broth
1 c  Whole fresh mint leaves
8 oz boneless steak, trimmed
4 ea green onions
1 ea medium onion
4 ea garlic cloves
1 ts salt
6 oz somen
1 tb Asian sesame oil
Note: Somen is thin white wheat noodles.
Cook's notes: Use caution when working with fresh chilies. Upon
completion of slicing, wash work surface and hands thoroughly; do not
touch your eyes. Most supermarkets stock oyster sauce in their Asian
specialty sections.
Procedure: Cut the steak into 3-inch-by-1/4-inch strips.
Cut dark-green part of the onions into 3-inch pieces and finely chop the
remainder. Thinly slice the onion. Mince the garlic.
Bring 4 quarts water and the salt to boil. Add the noodles and cook
uncovered over high heat, stirring with chopsticks or a fork, for 1 1/2
to 2 minutes or until the noodles are just tender. Refresh under cold
water and drain. Transfer the noodles to a colander in a large bowl.
Toss with sesame oil.
Heat 2 tablespoons vegetable oil in a wok or large skillet over medium-
high heat. Add sliced onion and chilies and stir-fry for 3 to 4 minutes,
or until onion is lightly browned. Transfer to a bowl and reserve.
Add 2 tablespoons oil to the wok and increase the heat to high. Stirfry
the steak for 1 to 2 minutes, or until it just changes color. Transfer the
steak to the bowl and reserve.
Lower the heat to medium and add the remaining oil to the wok. Add
garlic and green onions and stir-fry for 30 seconds. Add the noodles to
the pan and heat thoroughly. Add the broth, soy sauce and oyster sauce
and heat thoroughly. Add steak, onion slices, chilies, mint leaves and
lime; stir-fry for 30 seconds.
Presentation: Serve the spicy somen on heated plates. The chilies can
be removed or left in for garnish. Warn your guests: They are
extremely hot.
Yield: Makes 4 main-course servings.
Nutritional info (per serving): 454 calories, 24 grams fat, 40 milligrams
cholesterol, 1,930 milligrams sodium.

