Title: GRILLED SMASH RED POTATOES (RUBEY)
Categories: Jane, Rubey
Yield: 6 Servings
2 1/2 lb Potatoes -- red skin
Preferred
12    Cloves garlic -- peeled
2 ts Extra virgin olive oil
1/4 c  Dry wine -- red or white
1 ts Salt
Freshly ground pepper
6    Sprigs fresh rosemary --
6    Inch
Counts: about 18 small potatoes. Scrub the potatoes. With the skins
on, cut small potatoes so pieces are no larger than 1-inch in
thickness. Place in a large bowl with the rest of the ingredients.
Toss to mix well. Cut 2 sheets of microwave wrap (or parchment) 12 X
18-inches. Also cut 2 sheets of aluminum foil 12 X 18-inches. Lay one
sheet of parchment on top of one sheet of foil; repeat, making 2
wraps. Divide potato garlic mixture, including all of the liquid and
seasoning, onto the 2 wraps. Top with rosemary sprigs. Bring 12-inch
edges of one packet together. Seal open edges tightly by turning or
rolling and pressing them together. Repeat for second packet. Flatten
so potato pieces are in a single layer. Place packets on hot grill
and cook, turning once, until potatoes yield when pressed with
finger, about 15 minutes on each side. Just prior to serving, unwrap
packet and turn potatoes and garlic onto warm platter. Discard
rosemary stems. Smash vegetables coarsely with potato masher or large
fork. Top with fish and relish. Serve immediately.

Serves 6 -- Per serving: CAL: 150 ..... Grams of PRO: 5 .....of CARB:
26 ....of FAT: 1.7

Copyright=A9 1996, Jane A. Rubey, M.P.H., R.D. World Rights Reserved

~ - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

NOTES : These could be baked in a hot (425F) oven for about 25
minutes. In this case you could leave off the foil; just be sure the
parchment is well sealed. When grilled, the foil prevents the
parchment from burning; the parchment prevents the acidic wine from
eating through the foil. I find that microwave wrap can be
substituted for parchment. It is available at the supermarket and is
much less expensive. Recipe By : Jane Rubey, 1996, Deliciously
Gourmet On-Line

From: 	owner-Mc-Recipe@austin.Sierra.Co

