Title: GROUND BEEF TIPS
Categories: Meats, Info
Yield: 1 Text
---  Ground Beef Tips  ---
Ground beef packages are labeled according to U.S. Department of
Agriculture standards and by supermarket preference. Lean to fat
ratios vary; however, if a package is labeled ground beef, it must be
no more thant 30% fat.

A bright, cherry-red color indicates fresh ground beef. However, fresh
ground beef goes through a number of color changes during its shelf
life. A darker, purplish-red color is typical of vacuum-packaged
ground beef or the interior of packaged ground beef which has not
been exposed to oxygen. Once exposed to oxygen, ground beef will turn
from darker red to bright red.

Store properly wrapped ground beef in the coldest part of the
refrigerator (36 F to 40 F); use or freeze within 2 days. Ground beef
can be frozen in its original transparent packaging for up to 2
weeks. For longer storage, rewrap ground beef tightly in heavy-duty
aluminum foil, freezer paper or plastic freezer bags and store up to
4 months at 0 F or lower.

Defrost ground beef in the refrigerator to prevent bacterial growth.
Never defrost at room temperature.

Wash hands with hot soapy water before and after handling raw meats.
Also, wash utensils, counters, cutting boards and other surfaces raw
meat has touched.

Do not overmix as patties, meatballs and loaves will have a firm,
compact texture.

Cook ground beef to a least medium (160 F) doneness, or until no
longer pink and the juices run clear. All forms of ground beef
including patties, loaves, meatballs and crumbles should be cooked to
medium doneness. It's risky to eat rare ground beef because surface
bacteria are transferred to the interior of the meat during grinding.

Brush brown sauces such as teriyaki, Worcestershire or soy on the
cooked surface of beef patties. When these sauces are mixed into the
raw product, it is difficult to determine doneness.

* COOKFDN brings you this information with permission from: * Texas
Beef Council -- http://www.txbeef.org

