Title: HAGGIS WITH TATTIES & NEEPS
Categories: Casseroles, Meats
Yield: 1 Servings
MMMMM---------------------YIELD: 6 SERVINGS--------------------------
2 lb Haggis
2 lb Potatoes; peeled & cut into
-eighths
1 1/2 lb Yellow turnips (rutabagas),
-peeled & cut into 1/2"
-cubes
1 ts Salt
1/4 c  Butter; melted
1/3 c  Milk; warmed
Fresh lavender, rosemary, &
-sage for garnish (opt)
Scotch whiskey
In a 6 quart saucepot, bring 3 quarts water to boiling. Pierce casing
of the haggis once with a fork. Carefully place the haggis into the
pot of boiling water and boil 45 to 60 minutes or until haggis feels
firm and is cooked through. One-half hour before haggis had finished
cooking, prepare Tatties (mashed potatoes) and Neeps (turnips)/ In a
3 quart saucepan, combine potatoes and water to cover. Heat to
boiling over high heat; reduce heat to low and cook, covered, until
potatoes are tender- about 20 minutes. In a 2 quart saucepan, combine
turnips, 1/2 tsp salt, and water to cover. Heat to boiling over high
heat; reduce heat to low and cook, covered, until turnips are tender-
about 25 to 30 minutes. When potatoes are tender, drain well and
return to saucepan. With electric mixer, beat potatoes on low speed
until all pieces are broken up. Add 1/2 tsp salt, 2 Tbsp butter, and
half of the milk. Beat until mixture is smooth. Add remaining milk
and beat at high speed until smooth and fluffy. Keep warm until ready
to serve. If desired, place some of potatoes in large pastry bag with
large star tip. When turnips are tender, drain well and return to
saucepan. Add remaining 2 Tbsp butter and keep warm until ready to
serve. To serve, place haggis on serving platter. Spoon, or, if
desired, pipe several mounds of mashed potatoes around haggis leaving
space between mounds. Spoon some of turnips between potato mounds.
Garnish with lavender, rosemary, and sage, if desired. Pass remaining
potatoes and turnips. Give each guest a glass of Scotch to pour over
the haggis or to enjoy with it. If haggis has collagen casing, guests
may want to remove it from slices before eating. Notes: This classic
Scottish pudding made from oatmeal, mutton scraps, and suet is
traditionally baked in a sheep's stomach. Today, butchers often use
collagen casings while homemakers frequently opt to bake the mixture
in a casserole. Mashed potatoes (tatties) and turnips (neeps) are the
traditional accompaniment to haggis, as is a glass of Scotch whiskey,
which is either poured over the pudding or enjoyed with it. To serve
this traditional dinner, you can purchase a haggis by mail or prepare
our Americanized Homemade Haggis (separate recipe). Source: Country
Living, March, 1991

Submitted By WARING@IMA.INFOMAIL.COM (SAM WARING)  On SAT, 25 FEB 95
223636 GMT

