Title: HALF MOON BAY PUMPKIN BREAD
Categories: Quick bread
Yield: 3 Loaves
3 c  Sugar, granulated
3 1/2 c  Flour, all-purpose
1/2 ts Salt
2 ts Baking soda
1 ts Cinnamon
1 ts Nutmeg
4 lg Eggs
1 c  Vegetable oil
2 c  Pumpkin (cooked)
2/3 c  Water
1 1/2 c  Walnuts, chopped
Cream cheese (optional;
-for serving)
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F.  Butter your containers well.

Sift the dry ingredients together into a large bowl. Make a well in
the center of the dry ingredients, and add the eggs, oil, pumpkin and
water. Beat thoroughly. It's easier to get all the lumps out if you
use an electric mixer. Stir in the walnuts with a wooden spoon.

Pour the batter into the containers, filling each only half to
two-thirds full.  Bake for 60-90 minutes, depending on the sizes of
your containers. If you're using a very small container, start
checking much sooner. The bread is done when a toothpick in the
middle comes out clean.

Cool about ten minutes, then loosen the edges of the bread with a
knife, and turn out of the pans to cool the rest of the way on a
rack. For baking containers, you can use a loaf pan, metal cans, or
whatever. I usually use 1-pound coffee cans, and it takes three of
them. If you want tiny loaves, you could probably use soup cans.

NOTES:

*  A dessert bread made from pumpkins -- Every year in Half Moon Bay,
California there is a Pumpkin Festival, at which prizes are given for
the largest pumpkin in the world. Never mind that for the last two
years the winner has been in Nova Scotia:  the citizens of Half Moon
Bay take pumpkins very seriously.

At Christmas time in Half Moon Bay, people give each other little
tins of this bread as presents. I also take it backpacking, because
it's pretty resistant to being squashed (and tastes fine even when it
is). Yield: 3 1-pound loaves.

*  I think the nuts are important in this recipe. Unless you
absolutely hate them, leave them in.

*  It's not necessary, but you can serve some good cream cheese with
it to spread on the slices if you like.

: Difficulty:  easy to moderate.
: Time:  15 minutes preparation, 90 minutes cooking.
: Precision:  measure the ingredients.

: Vicki O'Day
: Hewlett-Packard Laboratories, Palo Alto, California, USA
: hplabs!oday

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

