Title: HAM MOUSSE IN SHERRY ASPIC
Categories: Pork
Yield: 8 Servings
For the aspic:
2 c  Chicken broth
1    Onion, sliced
1 lg Egg white, reserving the she
-l
1    Unflavored gelatin
1/4 c  Med-dry sherry
Garnish:
Egg white, hard-boiled
Black truffles
For the mousse:
2    Unflavored gelatin
1/4 c  Medium dry sherry
3 tb Scallions, finely chopped
1 tb Unsalted butter
2 c  Chicken broth
2 tb Tomato paste,
3 c  Cooked ham, ground
1/8 ts Nutmeg
1 c  Heavy cream
In a large saucepan, combine the broth, onion, egg white, and crushed
shell and simmer the mixture for 10 minutes. Let mixture stand for 20
minutes, then strain through a sieve lined with a double thickness of
cheesecloth. In a small heatproof bowl, let the gelatin soften in the
Sherry for 5 minutes.  Heat the mixture over a pan of simmering
water, stirring, until the gelatin is dissolved, and add it to the
broth. Let the aspic cool, but do not let it set up.  Rinse a 2-qt.
mold with cold water, cover the bottom with a thin layer of the
semi-liquid aspic. Chill for 3 hours or until it is firm.  Pour the
remaining aspic into a shallow baking pan and chill it. Cut the hard
cooked egg white and truffles into decorative shapes. Garnish the
edges of the bottom of the mold with these. In a small heatproof
bowl, let the gelatin soften in the Sherry for 5 minutes and heat the
mixture over a pan of simmering water, stirring, until the gelatin is
dissolved. In a saucepan, cook the scallion in the butter over
moderate heat, stirring, until softened. Do not brown the onion. Stir
in the broth, tomato paste, and gelatin mixture, and simmer,
stirring, for 1 minute. Remove the pan from the heat and stir in the
ham. Season the mixture with nutmeg, salt, and pepper, and let it
cool. In a small bowl, beat the cream to stiff peaks and fold it into
the ham mousse. Chill, set over a bowl of ice water, stirring
occasionally, for 10 hours or until it begins to set. Pour the mousse
into the mold, spreading it evenly, and chill it, covered for 3 hours
or until set. Unmold the mousse onto a chilled platter and garnish
with the remaining chilled aspic, chopped, and parsley. a 1968
Gourmet Mag. favorite.

