Title: HARDEE'S CINNAMON "FLAKE" BISCUITS
Categories: Breads, Biscuits, Desserts
Yield: 1 Servings
Van Geffen VGHC42A
MIXTURE
1    Box Kellogg's Bran Flakes --
(1 ounce) (1-serving
Size)
1 tb Cinnamon
2 tb Brown sugar -- packed
2 tb Butter -- melted
BISCUIT DOUGH
2 1/2 c  Bisquick
2 tb Sugar
1/2 c  Dark raisins
1/3 c  Buttermilk
1/2 c  Tonic water
1/2 ts Vanilla
MIXTURE-Empty the box of cereal into blender. Dump in cinnamon and
brown sugar and use high speed, on/off, for about 3 seconds or till
crumbled, but not powdered. Empty into small bowl. Stir in melted
butter with fork till mixture is completely softened. Set aside.
BISCUIT DOUGH-Use a 2-qt mixing bowl. Stir biscuick together with
sugar and raisins. Putbuttermilk, Tonic water and vanilla into
measuring cup, without stirring and pour into Bisquick mixture. Use
fork to mix until all of the liquid is absorbed. Then knead in the
bowl with hands, dipping into additional Bisquick, to make dough
smooth and no longer stick. Break dough up into 4 or 5 portions in
the bowl - sprinkling the "Flake" mixture over the dough and then
working it into your hands till most of it is pretty well evenly
distributed throughout the dough. You want more to "marbelize" the
dough than you do "mix"it into it. Divide dough into 12 equal parts
and shape each into 1/2" thick patty, arranging close togethe r in
Pam-sprayed 12" rouond or oven-proof skillet (or use 2 8" round layer
cake pans). Bake at 400~ for 25 minutes or until evenly golden.
Remove pan to wire rack and wipe tops with icing at once using the
following recipe. ICING-In small bowl with electric mixer on high
speed, beat 2 tb melted butter, 1 ts vanilla, 2 tb sour cream, dash
of salt and 1-1/2 c powdered sugar until smooth.Place a rounded tb of
icing atop each biscuit right out of the oven. The heat of the
biscuit will soften the icing just enough that you can swirl it
around to coat the tops nicely, letting the icing stand on thewarm
biscuits half a minute before spreading it. Refrigerate any leftover
icing in covered container to use within 2 weeks or freeze to use in
6 months.

:
Recipe By

