Title: HARROD'S CHRISTMAS PUDDING
Categories: British, Christmas, Desserts, Fruits, Harned 1994
Yield: 2 Puddings
1/2 lb Unsalted butter plus about
2 ts Butter; for greasing molds
1 1/3 c  Dark brown sugar
3    Eggs; beaten
3 tb Dark corn syrup
2/3 c  Self-rising flour
1 pn Salt
1/2 ts Ground cinnamon
1/2 ts Freshly grated nutmeg
1/2 ts Apple pie spice
1    Lemon; juice of
1    Orange; fine grated rind of
1    Lemon; fine grated rind of
4 c  Fresh bread crumbs
1 1/3 c  Golden raisins
1 1/3 c  Raisins
1 1/3 c  Currants
1/3 c  Chopped mixed citrus peel
-- (2 ounces)
1/4    To 1/2 cup brandy
MMMMM--------------------JUST BEFORE SERVING-------------------------
Garnish with holly
Ignite with brandy
Thickly butter and dust with flour two 1-quart molds (or dome-shaped
china, ceramic or glass bowls).  Set aside.

Beat the 1/2 lb. butter until soft.  Add sugar and beat until fluffy.
Gradually beat in the eggs and syrup.

Sift flour with salt and spices; fold into the butter mixture with the
lemon juice, grated rinds, bread crumbs, fruits, mixed peel and
brandy.

Spoon mixture into the 2 prepared molds.  If molds don't have lids,
cover each with a circle of waxed paper, then a piece of foil pleated
across the center and securely tied in place. Leave overnight in
refrigerator.

Put molds in a large saucepan with enough water to come halfway up the
sides of the molds.  Cover and steam for 5 hours; remove from the
water.

Let cool completely, then cover with a clean piece of waxed paper and
a pudding cloth (muslin or closely woven cheesecloth) secured with a
string and ends of the cloth tied in a knot over the pudding mold.

Leave in the refrigerator to mature before using. Before serving,
steam about 3 hours.  Remove from mold. Bring to the table blazing in
'ignited brandy, and bedight with Christmas holly stuck into the top.'

Yield: Two 2 lb. puddings.

From Special Writer Marilyn Kluger's 11/25/92 "A Dickens of a Delight:
Christmas Plum Pudding is a Holiday Treat Straight from Merry Olde
England" article in "The (Louisville, KY) Courier-Journal." Pg. C7.
Typed for you by Cathy Harned.

