Title: Chocolate Peanut Butter Pie
Categories: Desserts, Pies, Chocolate
Yield: 6 servings
1/4 c  Peanuts; Chopped
2 ea Egg Whites; Lg
2 tb Sugar
1 ts Vanilla
1 c  Heavy Cream; Whipped
14 ea PeanutButterSandwichCookies
3 tb Butter Or Regular Margarine
1/3 c  Semi-sweet Chocolate Chips
1 tb Light Corn Syrup
1 tb Water
1/3 c  Creamy Peanut Butter
1/3 c  Sugar
3 tb Light Corn Syrup
3 tb Water
~----------------------PEANUT BUTTER COOKIE CRUST-------------------------
Prepare the Peanut Butter Cookie Crust and set aside.
Combine the chocolate chips, 1 tb of light corn syrup and 1 tb of water in
the top of a double boiler.  Cook over simmering water until the chocolate
melts and the mixture is smooth.  Remove from the heat and cool well.
Meanwhile combine the peanut butter, 1/3 cup of sugar, 3 tb of corn syrup,
and 3 tb of water in a 2-qt saucepan.  Cook over medium heat, stirring
constantly until the sugar is dissolved and the mixture is well blended.
Pour into a bowl and stir in the peanuts; cool.  Beat the egg whites until
foamy, using an electric mixer at high speed.  Gradually add 2 tb of
sugar, 1 tb at a time, beating well after each addition.  Beat in the
vanilla and continue beating until stiff, glossy peaks form when the
beaters are slowly lifted.  Fold the egg white mixture into the whipped
cream.  Then fold in the peanut butter mixture.  Pour half of the peanut
butter mixture into the peanut butter cookie crust.  Drizzle half of the
chocolate mixture over the filling.  Top with the remaining filling.
Drizzle the remaining chocolate in parallel lines over the filling.  Pull
a knife across the lines at 1 inch intervals.  Freeze until firm.  Wrap
securely in aluminum foil.  Return to the freezer and continue freezing 8
hours or overnight.  Remove from the freezer 10 minutes before serving.
PEANUT BUTTER COOKIE CRUST:
Crush the cookies and melt the butter or margarine.  Combine them and mix
well.  Press the crumb mixture into the bottom and up the sides of a 9-inch
pie plate.  Chill in the refrigerator until set.

