Title: Cannoli
Categories: Italian, Dessert
Yield: 16 servings
MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
1 1/2 c  Milk chocolate;
- coarsely chopped
1/4 c  Pistachio nuts;
- coarsely chopped
1 1/2 c  Whole-milk ricotta cheese;
- well drained
3 tb Sugar
1 1/2 ts Cinnamon
MMMMM---------------------------DOUGH--------------------------------
- or dry white wine
2 c  Vegetable oil
Colored sprinkles
Confectioners' sugar
1 c  All-purpose flour
1 tb Sugar
1 tb Butter or lard
4 tb To 5 Tbl sweet Marsala wine
In a bowl, combine all the filling ingredients and mix well.
Refreigerate, covered, until ready to fill the cannoli shells.

To make the dough, place the flour in a bowl or food processor. Add
the butter or lard and sugar and mix with a fork, or pulse, until the
mixture resembles coarse meal. Slowly add the 1/4 cup of wine and
shape the mixture into a ball; add a little more wine if the dough
appears too dry. It should be soft but not sticky. Knead the dough on
a floured surface until smooth, about 10 minutes.  Wrap the dough and
refrigerate for 45 minutes.

Place the chilled dough on a floured work surface. Divide the dough in
half.  Work with 1 piece of dough at a time; keep the remaining dough
refrigerated. Roll the dough out to a very thin long rectangle about
14 inches long and 3 inches wide, either by hand or using a pasta
machine set to the finest setting.  Cut the dough into 3-inch
squares. Place a cannoli form diagnoally across 1 square. Roll the
dough up around the form so the points meet in the center.  Seal the
points with a little water. Continue making cylinders until all the
dough is used.

In an electric skillet, heat the vegetable oil to 375F. Fry the
cannoli 3 or 4 at a time, turning them as they brown and blister,
until golden brown on all sides. Drain them on brown paper. When they
are cool enough to handle, carefully slide the cannoli off the forms.

To serve, use a long iced tea spoon or a pastry bag without a tip to
fill the cannoli with the ricotta cheese mixture. Dip the ends into
colored sprinkles, arrange them on a tray, and sprinkle
confectioner's sugar over the tops.  Serve at once.

NOTE:  If you prefer, you can fry the cannoli in a deep fryer. Be
sure to fill the cannoli just before serving - any sooner will make
the shells soggy.

This recipe from CIAO ITALIA by Mary Ann Esposito

