Title: Chicken Scarparella
Categories: Italian, Poultry, Chicken
Yield: 6 servings
3/4 lb Fresh mushrooms, sliced
1 md Onion, sliced
1/4 ts Dried rosemary leaves,
-crushed
1 c  Chicken broth
1/2 c  Dry white wine
1    Pkge linguine pasta (8
-ounces)
2 tb All-purpose flour
1 sm Bunch arugula
1/4 c  Olive oil or salad oil
1    Red bell pepper, julienned
2 md Cloves garlic, crushed
2 1/2 lb Chicken, cut in serving
-pieces
1 lb Italian sausage links (sweet
-or hot), cut
Crosswise in half
1.  Rinse arugula well, pat dry.  Reserve half of the arugula for
garnish; discard tough stems from remainder.  Thinly slice the
prepared arugula and set aside.

2.  In a large skillet, heat 2 tablespoons oil over medium-high heat.
Add red pepper; saute until tender.  Add sliced arugula and half the
garlic; saute until arugula is wilted.  Transfer vegetables and pan
drippings to a bowl.

3.  In the same skillet, heat remaining oil.  Add chicken and sausage
in batches; brown on all sides, removing pieces to a plate as they
brown. Discard all but 2 tablespoons drippings from pan.  To hot
drippings in pan add mushrooms, onion and remaining garlic; saute
until tender. Return chicken and sausage to skillet.  Add 1/2
teaspoon salt, the rosemary, 1/8 teaspoon pepper, the broth and wine.
Bring to a boil; lower heat and simmer, covered, until chicken is
tender, about 25 minutes.

4.  Meanwhile prepare linguine as package label directs.  Drain;
return to pan.  Add red pepper mixture; heat through.  Toss to
combine. Cover and keep warm.

5.  Remove chicken and sausage from skillet; arrange on warm serving
platter.  Skim fat from mixture in skillet.  In a small glass
measure, mix flour with 1/4 cup water until blended.  Stir into
liquid in skillet. Bring to boiling, stirring constantly; boil for 1
minute, stirring, until mixture thickens.  Spoon sauce over chicken
and sausage.  Arrange pasta on platter with chicken.  Garnish with
remaining arugula.

Makes 6 servings.

[ McCALL'S; January 1990 ]

Posted by Fred Peters.

