Title: Crunchy Snacks for Kids
Categories: Kids, Snack
Yield: 6 servings
6 c  POPPED popcorn
1 c  Shelled peants
1/2 c  (8 tbsp) honey
1/2 c  Margarine
From: Vicki Lansky's CANDY book

COOKIE JAR

Have you thought of putting crackers in your cookie jar? They are
made with less sugar and you can choose a low salt variety. You can
fill a cookie jar with peanuts-in-th-shell or roasted no-salt nuts.
Or keep on hand a jar of nuts and raisins with a few chocolate chips
thrown in (aka "gorp").

POPCORN

Try sprinkling grated Parmesan cheese or American cheese on popcorn.
Or, mix with peanuts, or cinnamon.

Package extra popcorn in small plastic bags with twist ties -
excellent for an out-of-doors treat, car ride (Donna's note: UGH!) or
TV special snack. (Donna's note: lunch boxes!)

HONEY "CRACKER JACKS"

Heat honey and butter in a saucepan until blended. Cool. Pour over
popcorn which has been mixed with peanuts, stirring as you pour. When
well-coated, spread in a pan in a single layer. Bake at 350 for 5 -
10 minutes or until crisp, stirring several times. The difference
between crisp (not brown) and burnt can be a matter of minutes.
Package in plastic bags and twist tie. If you want it to be mistaken
for the "real thing", add a small toy.

POPCORN CANDY CLUSTERS

1 cup (8 oz) semi-sweet chocolate chips 1 cup freshly popped popcorn
1 cup nuts

Melt chocolate chips. Add popcorn and nuts and stir until they are
well coated. Drop by spoonfuls onto a cookie sheet or wax paper and
let set til firm. If the crowd is rushing you for a taste, chill the
clusters in the freezer for 5 minutes. When firm, store in plastic
bags.

CRUNCHO MIX

Mix: 4 cups crunchy cereal (Cheerios, or Corn Chex, etc) 1 cup
peanuts or mixed nuts 1 cup pretzel sticks, the smallest size 1 cup
seasoned croutons

Combine: 1/2 cup salad oil or 6 tbsp melted butter 2 tsp
Worcestershire Sauce 1/4 tsp garlic powder

In a shallow pan coat crunchy ingredients with the combined oil and
seasonings. Heat in oven at 250 for about 45 minutes, stirring every
15 minutes. Spread on absorbent paper to cool.

