Title: Egg Rolls #2
Categories: Chinese, Appetizer
Yield: 12 servings
1    Med. onion - cut into
-1/4-inch dice
2 lg Celery ribs - cut into
-1/4-inch dice
12    Egg roll wrappers
1    Egg - beaten
4 c  Peanut oil - for deep frying
1 tb Dry mustard - mixed with 1
-tablespoon cold water
1 sl Ginger - fresh, peeled,
-about 1 inch
1    Clove garlic - large
1 tb Sugar - PLUS 1-1/2 teaspoons
2 1/2 ts Salt
6    Med. shrimp - about 1/4
-pound, shelled and deveined
1    Head cabbage - green, tough
-outer leaves removed (2 lb)
1.  Fill a large saucepan with water.  Add the ginger, garlic, sugar
and salt and bring to a boil over high heat.  Add the shrimp and cook
until they curl and turn pink, about 1 minute.  Discard the garlic
and ginger and, using a slotted spoon, transfer the shrimp to a sieve
to drain; let cool slightly, then cut in 1/4-inch dice.  Set aside.

2.  Bring the water in the saucepan back to a boil over high heat.
Halve, core and finely chop the cabbage.  You should have 6 cups. Add
the cabbage, onion and celery to the water and cook until the cabbage
is bright green, about 1-1/2 minutes.  Drain thoroughly in a colander
and set aside to cool slightly.  Press down to extract any excess
water from the vegetables.

3.  In a large bowl, combine the reserved shrimp and the barbecued
pork; season with salt to taste.  Add the vegetables and mix well.
Divide the filling into 12 equal portions.

4.  Place an egg roll wrapper on a work surface like a diamond, with
a tip facing you.  Keep the remaining wrappers covered.  Place one
portion of the filling in a horizontal line across the bottom third
of the wrapper, then fold the tip closest to you over the filling
toward the center. Lightly brush the side tips of the wrapper with
some of the beaten egg, then fold them into the center.  Brush the
surface with egg and roll up the wrapper from the bottom.  Brush the
top tip with egg; fold toward you to seal the cylinder.  Repeat with
remaining wrappers and filling.

5.  Heat a wok over high heat for 45 seconds.  Add the peanut oil and
heat to 350F.  Add 4 egg rolls to the wok and fry, turning frequently
with tongs or chopsticks, until golden brown, 4 to 5 minutes.
Transfer to a colander or large sieve set over a bowl to drain.
Repeat with the remaining egg rolls, 4 at a time.  Serve immediately
with the mustard sauce.

Makes 12 egg rolls.

This is truly a creation of the Chinese-American restaurant. There is
no such thing as an egg roll in China.  There are spring rolls,
delicate finger-size cylinders filled with bean sprouts, scallions,
shrimp and pork, encased in a paper-thin skin.  Egg rolls on the
other hand are usually filled with a bewildering variety of
ingredients, mostly chopped cabbage. It is, however, possible to
create a fine egg roll such as the one here.

Recipe from Food & Wine, November, 1991.

