Title: Fish in Escabeche
Categories: Fish
Yield: 1 servings
-name, from CABEZA, 'head'),
-then fried
-or
-lightly browned; they are
-then marinated for 24 hours
-in a cooked
-and
-spiced marinade.  The fish
-then keep for up to a week
-in the
-refrigerator.
-" {Escabeche is} A spicy
-cold marinade intended for
-preserving
-cooked foods and
-originating in Spain.  It
-is used chiefly for
-small
-cooked fish (sardines,
-mackerel, smelt, whiting,
-red mullet, etc.).
-The
-fish are headed (hence the
"Cut some small fish and remove the heads; clean, wash, and wipe the
fish. Dip in flour and fry in olive oil until golden.  Drain and
arrange in an earthenware dish.  Peel an onion and a carrot and slice
thinly. Heat the oil used for cooking the fish until it begins to
smoke, then fry the onion and carrot and 5 - 6 unpeeled cloves of
garlic for a few moments. Remove from the heat and add (2/3 cup)
vinegar and 2/3 cup water. Add a bouquet garni containing plenty of
thyme and season with salt, pepper, a dash of cayenne, and a few
coriander seeds. Cook for about 15 minutes then pour the boiling
marinade over the fish and leave to marinate for at least 24 hours.
Serve as an hors d'oeuvre."

2. From Jane Grigson's FISH COOKERY:

"Any fish can be used - sole, mackerel, whole fish, filleted fish,
chunks of fish, even frozen haddock fillet.  For this particular
recipe, which is a preserve for entertainment rather than serious
storage, I should choose the finest, freshest white fish you can
afford. Ingredients: 1 1/2 lb fish 1 small pepper, seeded and diced
salt, pepper, olive oil half an onion, sliced Marinade: dry Vermouth
6 oz each lemon juice, Garnish: orange juice, olive oil 1 avocado
pear, peeled and sliced 1 ripe avocado, peeled and sliced half

an onion, sliced 1 large orange, sliced Directions: "Season the fish.
Leave for half an hour, then cook in olive oil until golden brown on
both sides. Do not overcook.  Put into a dish. "Heat all marinade
ingredients, except bitters or Vermouth, and let them boil together
for a couple of moments. Pour them over the fish.  Add Vermouth to
taste, or bitters, and a little salt, though this will most likely
not be necessary. Cover when cold, and leave in the refrigerator
overnight. Add extra slices of avocado pear and onion just before
serving. "Apart from the juices, which take the place of vinegar, and
the olive oil, the quantities of the other flavoring ingredients are
variable.  The important thing is that the fish should be covered;
and that you should find the balance of flavors agreeable to your
taste. A beautiful dish - particularly if you use a pink Spanish
onion, to contrast with the orange, deep green and soft pistachio
green of the other ingredients. The juice will become slightly
jellied. A most refreshing dish." 3. From Ana Maria Calera's COCINA
CATALANA:

2 1/4 lb (fresh) sardines   ground black pepper 8 cloves garlic 1 cup
vinegar 1 bay leaf 2 tbs sweet paprika thyme 1 cup olive oil oregano
1 cup flour salt

Clean the sardines well and salt them, coat with flour and fry in the
hot oil.  Remove the fish from the pan and, in the same oil, place
the thyme, oregano, bay leaf and garlic cloves.  When this has fried
for some 15 minutes, remove from the fire, add salt, a little black
pepper, the paprika, and an amount of vinegar equal to half the
amount of oil remaining in the pan.  Replace the pan over the fire
and let the mixture boil about 5 minutes; remove from the heat and
let cool. Place the sardines in a deep earthenware dish and pour the
cold marinade over them. The marinade must cover the fish completely.

Prepared in this way and kept in a cool place, the fish will keep for
a number of days.

