Title: Full Moon Magic (Menu & Recipes)
Categories: Chinese, Seafood
Yield: 6 servings
2    Inches of grated ginger root
1 lg Package wonton skins
2 lg Packages of cream cheese
1 cn Shrimp or crab, undrained
The Japanese Furo or wooden tub brings a touch of the Orient to
enhance the moonlit spell as you play the perfect hostess in your
terry kimono.  Serve any or all of the following enchanted nibblers.

Menu - Wonton, Rangoon Petite Chicken Wings, Lomi Lomi Cherries,
Banana, Kumquat & Pineapple Kabobs, Sparkling Cider, Kiwi Cocktails

Serving Suggestions Try teal blue linen on your "Lazy Susan" to hold
Japanese rice bowls brimming with the Oriental favroites. Your guests
in the Furo may sip sparkling cider in silver goblets while the
deck-side group enjoy Kiwi cocktails in frosted champagne glasses. In
cold weather, offer cups of Japanese tea with sprig of mint. Teal
Blue napkins are ideal to wipe sticky fingers.

Wonton Rangoon

Mix the cream cheese with the shrimp/crab.  Place a teaspoon or less
of the mix in each wonton skin. Roll each skin into a long roll.
Freeze ahead or use immediately. When ready to serve, cook the rolls
quickly in about 1/2" of fat until browned on both sides or brown in
400~ oven. Try cooking both ways for a variety of tastes.

Pettie Chicken Wings Marinade: equal parts soy sauce & whiskey garlic
powder & brown sugar to taste

To prepare chicken wings, cut off the wing tips at the joint and
discard. Disjoint the next two bones and with sharp knife, divide the
section that has two bones, thus making three 'drumsticks' from each
wing. Marinate in the sauce at least 1/2 hour, overnight if possible.
When ready to cook, bake at 400~ for approximately 20 minutes or deep
fry.

Lomi Lomi Cherries 1 pint cherry tomatoes 3 oz smoked salmon OR 1 can
shrimp pieces 1 minced onion 1 minced green pepper

Cut the tops from the cherry tomatoes ands scoop out the seed and
pulp with a demitasse spoon. Combine the salmon/shrimp, onion and
green pepper. Refill the tomatoes and chill at least 1 hour before
serving. For a change of pace, fill each tomato with a smoked oyster.

Banana, Kumquat & Pineapple Kabobs 9 firm bananas, cut into 4 chunks
each (36 pieces total) 36 preserved kumquats, drained 1 fresh
pineapple, cut into 36 chunks

Sauce: 9 Tb honey 9 Tb melted butter 3 tsp ground ginger

Alternate fruits on 12 bamboo skewers and broil on a hibachi about 4
inches from the coals.  Brush with sauce.  Turn and baste until
golden brown on both sides.

Sparkling Cider  (non-alcoholic beverage) Chill bottles of sparkling
cider. Fill iced silver champagne glasses.

Kiwi Cocktails   (alcoholic beverage) 1 kiwi fruit, peeled 8 oz light
rum 4 Tb sugar syrup 2 Tb lemon juice

Puree kiwi in blender.  Add rum, sugar syrup & lemon juice.  Blend,
then sake with cracked ice and strain into prechilled glasses or
serve over ice. [ Food for Wet Fingers, Sharon R. Hines, 11/81. ]

