Title: Ginger-Fried Beef
Categories: Chinese, Beef, Stir fry
Yield: 2 servings
1 ts Dark soy sauce
1 ts Dry sherry or rice wine
1/2 ts Sugar
1/2 ts Sesame oil
1/4 ts Salt
1/4 ts Pepper
1/4 ts Baking powder
2 ts Cornstarch
1 tb Water
1/4 lb Sirloin steak, shredded
1 md Onion, quartered and cut
-into strips
1    Thumb-size piece fresh
-ginger, peeled and
Shredded   (see note)
1    Clove garlic, minced
Marinade (in jar)
2 ts Light soy sauce
2 ts Vegetable sauce
NOTES: Thanks to reader Alice Ho, here's a ginger beef recipe that's
stir fried not deep fried. If you partially freeze the beef, it can
be cut into thin shreds making it quick work in a wok or wide
skillet. Marinating the meat and cooking it, still partially frozen,
keeps more of the meat juices in the meat and out of the sauce. For
dessert, a tropical mixture of lichees, mandarins and grapes would be
refreshing. If you thought soy sauce was soy sauce, Alice Ho offers
these tips : "Black and light soy sauces are distinguishable. If you
shake the light sauce, the bottle is transparent. This is easier than
deciphering the chinese characters on the bottles." Ho says the
baking powder in this recipe acts as a meat tenderizer.

DIRECTIONS: Cut beef into shreds, while partially frozen. Use a sharp
cleaver or chef's knife.  Prepare onion, pepper, ginger and garlic;
set aside.

Pour marinade ingredients (mixed together) over beef and let stand
for 30 minutes (longer if you wish).

Heat wok or wide skillet; add 2 Tb vegetable oil.  Fry onion and
pepper in hot oil, stirring constantly.  Add salt and pepper to
taste, and cook for a minute.  Vegetables should be crisp and
glistening. Remove from pan.

Add another 2 Tb oil to the pan; heat and add garlic and ginger.

Add beef, stirring quickly to separate strips that cling together.

Add 1/4 cup hot water; stir and cook for about a minute.  Return
cooked vegetables to wok and blend quickly.

Season to taste, as you wish, or add 1 Tb oyster sauce to enhance the
flavor.  Serve over hot steaming rice.  Serves 2. Offer a second
stir-fry dish to round out the meal.

Calgary Herald, food section, 82.01.29

