Title: Haggis
Categories: European
Yield: 1 servings
-oatmeal)
1 2/3 c  Suet
Salt & pepper
-trussing needle and fine
- stirng
Stomach bag and pluck (heart
Liver and lights of a sheep
-(You can substitute a
-Selection of organ meats)
2    Onions; peeled
2 c  Pinhead oatmeal; (Irish
Thoroughly wash the stomach bag in cold water.  Turn it inside out and
scald it, then scrape the surface with a knife. Soak it in cold salted
water overnight. Next day remove the bag from the water and leave it
on one side while preparing the filling. Wash the pluck. Put it into
a pan, with the windpipe hanging over the side into a bowl, to let
out any impurities. Cover the pluck with cold water, add 1 teaspoon
of salt and bring the water to a boil. Skim the surface, then simmer
for 1 1/2 to 2 hours. Meanwhile parboil the onions, drain, reserving
the ligquid, and chop them roughly. Also tpast the pinhead oatmeal
until golden brown. Drain the pluck when ready and cut away the
windpipe and any excess gristle. Mince half the liver with all the
heart and lights, then stir in the shredded suet, the toasted oatmeal
and the onions. Season well with salt and pepper. Moisten with as
much of the onion or pluck water as necessary to make the mixture
soft. With the rough surface of the bag outside fill it just over
half full, the oatmeal will swell during cooking, and sew the ends
together with the trussing needle and fine string. Prick the bag in
places with the needlw. Place the haggis on and enamel plate and put
it into a pan of boiling water. Cover the pan and cook for about 3
hours, adding more boiling water when necessary to keep the haggis
covered. Serve with the traditional accompaniment of
Tatties-an'Neeps. (Mashed potatoes and mashed turnips.)

This is typically served on Burns' Night, January 25, when Scotland
celebrates the birth of their greatest poet, Robert Burns, who was
born in Ayrshire on that date in 1759. During the celebration, Burns
poems are read, and the haggis is addressed by a member of the party,
ceremonially, in the for of verses from Burns' poem, "Address to a
Haggis" A typical meal for Burn's night would include, Cock-a-Leekie,
Haggis with Tattie-an'-neeps, Roastit Beef, Tipsy Laird, and Dunlop
Cheese.

Source:  A Feast of Scotland, by Janet Warren

