Title: Heather's Roasted Curry Powder
Categories: Condiment, Curries, Indian
Yield: 6 servings
1 tb Ground black pepper
6    One-inch pieces rampa **
3    One-inch pieces cinnamon
-stick
1 tb Dried, crushed red chilies
1 tb Mustard seeds
1/4 c  Ground cumin
2 tb Fennel seeds
3 tb Coriander powder
25    Curry leaves *
10    Cardamom pods, crushed
6    Whole cloves
Start with a large pan, and dry-roast the ingredients separately over
low to medium heat, roasting the mustard seds last. In a few minutes,
the mustard seeds will start to pop (keep the lid on the pan or the
mustard seeds will fly out). Then stir in the coriander and cumin;
when the spices; when the spices begin to turn light brown, add the
rest of the ingredients. Since the curry powder mix can burn very
quickly, stir it continuously. Roast the spices for about 7 to 10
minutes, until they are dark golden brown.  Then remove them from the
heat, and grind or powder them immediately while they are still warm
(whether you do it by hand with a mortar and pestle or in a food
processor, the must be FINELY ground). Store in an airtight bottle -
keeps well for two weeks or more.

*Curry leaves - edible gray-green leaves that resemble bay leaf, used
in flavoring sambols and fish, vegetable, or meat curries. The Sri
Lankans use curry leaves fresh, but they can be used dried if fresh
leaves are not available.  The Sinhalese term for the plant is
'karapincha', and if you can find them fresh, they add great depth
and flavor to a dish. They are not removed before serving, and they
are edible. There is no substitute for curry leaves.

**Rampa (pandanus leaf) - Spear shaped aromatic leaves used to flavor
curries.  From the lemongrass family, rampa is not edible, but it is
used as a flavoring in boiling rice.  Sri Lankans do not remove it
before serving; they just leave it on the plate.

From:  FIRE & SPICE - THE CUISINE OF SRI LANKA by Heather Jansz
Balasuriya and Karin Winegar, McGraw-Hill Publishing Company, New
York. 1989. ISBN 0-07-003549-0 Posted by: Karin Brewer, Cooking Echo,
1/93

