Title: Herring Recipes
Categories: Fish
Yield: 1 servings
-Dip roes in seasoned flour
-and fry gently for about 8
-minutes in
-the butter.
-You will need 1/2 lb of
-herring roes  or melts(
-soft roes).
-Seasoned flour.
1 1/2 oz Butter.
2.Potted herring.

2 Herring per person, salt, vinegar and water, 1 tsp pickling spice,
2 or 3 bay leaves. Scrape the scales from the fresh herring and clean
them.take the heads off. Lay them in an ovenproof dish,cover with
vinegar and water,add pickling spice,salt and bay leaves. Cover the
dish,bring to the boil,then simmer in a moderate
oven(350-375f,180-190c,3-5gas).Until the bones are cooked right
through, cool and then serve with a green salad.

3 Priddhas and herring. This is one of the most renowned Manx dishes
and is simple to prepare.

You need two herring per person,potatoes 1 raw onion. If you can get
them use salt herring which have been soaked overnight in water.
Method: Scrub the potatoes and put them in a saucepan and barely
cover with water, When the potatoes are half cooked add the herring
by lying on top. the remainder of the time taken to cook the potatoes
should cook the herring !! Lift out the herring,drain the
spuds(potatoes) and serve with slices of raw onion and knobs of
butter.The dish is traditionally served with plenty of buttermilk to
drink.

4. Salt herring. Any quantity of fresh herring,salt bay
salt,saltpetre,brown sugar. Hint: use a container that you won't need
for a couple of months.

Method

Gut the fish and salt them lightly with plain salt,leave them to drain
overnight in a colander or something similar.Wipe each one in a dry
cloth to take off the scales. Lb together equal quantities of bay
salt (rock salt?)salt petre and brown sugar.Place a layer of this in
an earthen ware crock,then a layer of fish,repeat with the layers
until the crock or pan is full.Spread a thick layer of salts on
top.Cover the crock and leave for a few months before using.

5. Herring pie. Ingredients: 6 Fresh herring 1/2 tsp of mace,salt and
pepper 3 large cooking apples, 2 onions, a little butter, pastry..

Method. Line a large oven proof dish with the pastry,scale
gut,head,tail and clean the herring. Season the fish with mace ,salt
and pepper. Put a little butter at the bottom of the pie dish,then a
row of herring.Pare the apples and place thin slices over the
fish,slice the onions and lay on top the apple.Put a little butter on
top and pour a quarter of a cup of water.Cover with pastry and bake
in a moderate oven for 30-40 mins.

