Title: Huenerpalatschinken (Chicken and Mushroom Crepes)
Categories: German, Chicken, Poultry
Yield: 4 servings
2 tb Cream
1/2 tb Flour
pn Cayenne pepper
Salt & pepper to taste
1 tb Parmesan cheese, grated
1 lb Chicken, cooked and diced -
(see Note below)
4 oz Mushrooms, chopped
Juice 1/2 lemon
2 tb Butter
1 ts Chives, chopped
MMMMM-------------------CREPES BATTER MIXTURE------------------------
2    Eggs
10 oz Milk
6 tb Flour
Melt 1 1/2 tbsp butter over a very low flame and stir in juice of
lemon. Add the chopped chicken meat, stir, cover, and cook gently for
a few minutes.  Add the mushrooms, chives, salt, pepper and cayenne
pepper, mix, cover, and cook for another few minutes.  Cream 1/2 tbsp
flour and 1/2 tbsp butter together, add to the chicken mixture
together with the cream, cover and continue cooking very gently for 5
minutes.  Make 4 crepes with the chicken and mushroom mixture.  Fold
them over and place them in a fire-proof dish.  Pour the remainder of
the chicken and mushroom over them, sprinkle with Parmesan cheese and
brown in a hot (400-450 degree F.) oven.

CREPES BATTER MIXTURE:

Make a smooth batter of the flour, eggs, and milk.  Allow to stand
for at least 1 hour.  Melt the butter and keep beside you in a cup.
Use a very small omelette pan.  Pour a very little of the butter in
and quickly add a small quantity of the batter, just enough to cover
the pan when tilted. Brown and toss or turn with a pallette knife.
Do the other side the same. Set aside on a close-meshed wire tray.
Continue like this until all the batter is used up.

NOTE:

To prepare the chicken for this dish in the classical manner:  take a
2 1/2 pound or larger whole chicken and boil in large pan until
tender (until leg pulls easily away from breast).  Bone chicken and
set aside to cool for later use with this recipe.

However, one can use 3 6-ounce cans of boned chicken with broth now
found on supermarket shelves with equal success.  Alternately, one
can use a variety of boned chicken pieces (thighs work great) now
available in supermarkets; boil them until tender, dice, and use with
the recipe.

***This recipe complements of Arthur Cloninger.  Source:
Encyclopedia of European Cooking, 1965.***

