Title: Joululimppa (Finnish Holiday Rye Bread)
Categories: Bread, European
Yield: 6 servings
Grated rind of 1 orange
1 c  Rye flakes or wheat germ
2 c  Dark or light rye flour
3 1/2    To 4 1/2 cups uncleached
-white or whole wheat flour
Glaze:
1 tb Molasses
2 tb Water
2 c  Buttermilk
1/2 c  Molasses
1/4 c  Butter or margarine
2 ts Salt
1 ts Fennel seeds
1 ts Caraway seeds
2 tb Dry yeast
1/2 c  Warm water
Similar to Swedish rye.  Can be toasted.

Heat the buttermilk, molasses, butter or margarine, salt, fennel
seeds, and caraway seeds until the butter melts.  Set aside to cool.

Dissolve the yeast in the warm water.  Let it stand for 5 minutes
until the yeast bubbles.  ((My comment: whisk in some flour and
molasses to nourish the yeast.))  Add the yeast to the cooled
buttermilk mixture along with the grated orange rind, rye flakes or
wheat germ, and rye flour.  Beat well until smooth. Add 3 to 3 1/2
cups of wheat flour, stirring in a cup at a time, until the dough
will not readily absorb more flour.  The dough will be rough.

Flour a work surface with the remaining wheat flour and turn the
dough out onto it.  Cover the dough with a damp cloth and let it rest
for 15 minutes. (The gluten in rye is more fragile than in wheat.  It
needs a resting time to recuperate and reform and does not require as
vigorous or lengthy a kneading).

Gently knead the dough for 5 to 10 minutes until smooth.  Form the
dough into a ball and place it in a large buttered bowl or pot,
turning it to coat all sides with butter.  Cover it and let it rise,
in a warm spot, until doubled in size, about an hour.

Punch down the dough and gently knead it for one minute.  Form the
dough into three round loaves and place in lightly buttered 9-inch
cake pans or on buttered baking sheets.  Cover and let rise until
almost doubled in size, 45 minutes to an hour.

Preheat the oven to 375 degrees.  Combine the water and molasses,
brush the tops with half of this mixture to glaze. Then lightly
pierce the loaves all over with a fork.

Bake for 35 to 45 minutes, until the bread sopunds hollow when tapped
on the bottom.  While the bread is hot, brush it with the remaining
glaze. Remove the loaves from the pans and cool on racks.

Yields 3 loaves.

From:  SUNDAYS AT MOOSEWOOD RESTAURANT, Simon & Schuster/ Fireside,
New York.  1990. Posted by: Karin Brewer, Cooking Echo, 7/92

