Title: Kangaroo Escalopes with Spinach and Anchovy Butter
Categories: Down under
Yield: 6 servings
1 ts Lemon juice
1 ts Black pepper freshly ground
1 ts Sea salt
Olive oil
600 g  Kangaroo fillet, trimmed
2 bn Of English spinach
12    Anchovy fillets
200 g  Unsalted butter
"Most people won't have ever tasted kangaroo. It is a sweet,
strong-tasting meat, it's texture and taste described as somwe- here
between venison and liver...To eat kangaroo, you have to like game;
you have to like offal and you have to be a red meat eater...It's a
very big, very strong-tasting meat."

These recipes are by Chris Manfield from The Paragon Cafe, Circular
Quay.

Slice the kangaroo fillet into thin slices, three per serve. Brush
with olive oil and sprinkle lightly with black pepper. Remove stalks
from spinach and wash leaves thoroughly. Plunge into rapidly boiling
water for 30 seconds. Strain and immerse immediately in iced water to
stop the cooking process and main- tain the green colour. When cold,
remove leaves from water and squeeze out as much liquid as possible.
Refrigerate until ready to use.

Soften 100 g unsalted butter and blend in food processor with the
anchovies, lemon juice and a pinch of sea salt and pepper until
smooth. Scrape out onto a piece of foil and form into a sausage
shape. Refrigerate until firm Heat a large, heavy- base, cast-iron
fry pan or grill plate until hot. Toss in the oiled meat slices and
quickly sear on each side. Do not turn until the first side is
properly sealed--this does not take very long--and don't overcook.
Remove meat and rest in a warm place until all the meat slices are
cooked. In another pan, over medium heat, melt the remaining butter,
add the squeezed spinach and the salt and pepper, and stir until the
spinach is hot. Divide the spinach into four portions, spoon onto the
centre of the plate, top with three escalopes. Slice the anchovy
butter so it begins to melt over the hot meat. Serve immediately.

From an article in The Sydney Morning Herald by Shelli-Anne Couch.
3/2/93. Courtesy, Mark Herron.

