Title: Korean Hot Pot - Shin Sul Ro *
Categories: Asian, Beef, Pork
Yield: 6 servings
6    Dried Chinese Black
- Mushrooms, Soaked
8 c  Rich Beef Broth
3 oz Can Bamboo Shoots, Drained
18    Canned Gingko Nuts, Drained
2 tb Pine Nuts, Optional
1    Fresh Red Chili, Shredded
3    Green Onions, Shredded
8 oz Beef Or Calves Liver
8 oz Prepared Tripe
4 oz Lean Beef Rump Or Fillet
4 oz Lean Ground Beef Or Pork
Salt And Black Pepper
1    Egg
Light Soy Sauce
1 sm Carrot
MMMMM-----------------VINEGAR SOY DIPPING SAUCE----------------------
- And Ground
2 ts Finely Chopped Green Onions
3/4 c  Light Soy Sauce
1/4 c  White Vinegar
1/4 c  White Sesame Seeds, Toasted
This cook-at-the-table one-pot dish is served with a biting vinegar
soy sauce dip.  The meat and vegetables are eaten first; then the
stock, well flavored by the ingredients and pepped up with chili, is
served as a soup with a sprinkling of diced onions.

Very thinly slice the liver, sprinkle with salt and pepper and fry
lightly in a little vegetable oil with a few drops of sesame oil
until colored and sealed on the surface.  Set aside.

Boil the tripe for 8 minutes in lightly salted water; drain and cut
into narrow strips.

Cut the beef into thin slices.  Pound with a meat mallet or the side
of a cleaver and cut into small squares.

Mix the ground meat with the egg, adding salt, pepper and a few drops
each of sesame oil and soy sauce.  Form small meatballs with wet
hands.  Fry in a half-and-half mixture of sesame and vegetable oils
until lightly browned.

Peel and slice the carrot.  Drain the mushrooms and remove the stems.
Bring the stock to the boil in a suitable vessel in the center of the
table. Add the meat, vegetables and nuts and simmer gently for about
15 minutes. Spoon straight from the pot into small bowls with the
vinegar soy dip.

When the meat and vegetables have been eaten, add the finely shredded
chili and green onions to the remaining stock and serve in soup bowls.

Vinegar Soy Dipping Sauce:  Mix all ingredients.  The sauce keeps for
several days in the refrigerator without the green onions, one day
with the green onions added.

From Asia The Beautiful Cookbook.  Typed by Syd Bigger.

