Title: Madeira Roast Pheasant
Categories: Game, Poultry, French
Yield: 6 servings
4    Wings chicken
2    Backs chicken
1 c  Room temperature unsalted
-butter
1/4 c  Madeira
1 qt Chicken broth
1 tb Unsalted butter
1 tb All purpose flour
Garnish sprig parsley
2 tb Unsalted butter
1    (unpeeled) coarsely chopped
-onion
3    Coarsely chopped celery
-stalk
2    Coarsely chopped carrot
2    Bay leaf
2 tb Herbs de Provence *
3    Pheasants (2 to 2-1/2 lb)
Preheat oven to 450 deg. Melt 2 tablespoons butter in large roasting
pan. Stir in onion, celery, carrots, bay leaves and 1 tablespoon
herbs de Provence. Top with pheasant giblets, necks, chicken wings
and backs. Roast until well browned, turning frequently, about 40
minutes. Reduce oven temperature to 375 deg.

Meanwhile, make herb butter by mixing 1 cup butter with 1 tablespoon
herbs de Provence. Pat pheasants dry inside and out. Loosen breast
skin on each by gently sliding fingers under neck flap and down
between breast meat and skin, being careful not to tear skin. Spread
1 1/2 tablespoons herb butter evenly over breast under skin of each.
Sprinkle each cavity with salt and pepper. Place 2 tablespoons herb
butter into each cavity. Truss pheasants to hold shape. Arrange on
sides atop vegetable mixture in roasting pan. Roast 15 minutes,
basting frequently with pan juices. Turn on second side and roast 15
minutes, basting frequently. Turn pheasants breast side up. Add
Madeira to pan and continue roasting until juices run pale pink when
thickest part of thigh is pierced, basting frequently, about 15
minutes. Transfer pheasants to platter and discard string. Tent with
foil.

Add broth to roasting pan. Boil until reduced to 3 cups liquid,
scraping up any browned bits, about 6 minutes. Strain sauce and
degrease. Melt 1 tablespoon butter in heavy small saucepan over low
heat. Add flour and stir 3 minutes. Whisk in sauce in thin stream.
Simmer 5 minutes, stirring frequently. Adjusting seasoning. Pour into
bowl. Garnish pheasant with parsley. Pass sauce separately.

*Available at specialty foods stores.

(Ouida & Vince Kelly) (C) 1987 Bon Appetit Publishing Corp.

Compliments of Fred Peters

