Title: Riceballs
Categories: Italian, Rice
Yield: 12 servings
1/4 c  Tomato sauce
1/4 lb Diced mozzarella
3    Eggs
1    Tomato sauce for color
3 tb Grated cheese
1    Garlic powder to taste
1    Salt, pepper, parsley
2 c  Long grain rice
4 c  Water
1/2 lb Chopped meat
1/2    Medium onion; chopped
1    Salt & pepper to taste
1    Garlic powder to taste
1/4 c  Peas
Wash and drain rice.  Boil water in saucepan over high heat. Add the
drained rice and bring to a boil.  Stir once, reduce heat to low,
cover and simmer until the liquid is absorbed and the rice is al
dente and slightly sticky, about 17 minutes. Remove from heat and
cool to room temperature. Heat oil in a large saute pan over
medium-high heat. Add the onion and saute until soft, about 5
minutes.  Add the chopped meat and seasoning and saute until the meat
just loses its raw color, about 5 minutes longer. Add the tomato
sauce and peas and cook until the liquid evaporates and the peas are
just tender, about 10 minutes longer for fresh peas, or about 5
minutes for thawed. In a mixing bowl, beat 2 of the eggs. Add the
cooled rice and the grated cheese and seasonings.  Scoop about 3 Tbl
of the rice mixture into the palm of one hand (wet hands first) and
press it out to form an even round.  Place about 1/2 Tbl of the meat
mixture and one small chunk mozzarella in the center of the patty,
then gently close your hand to encase the filling in the rice. Use
both hands to roll the stuffed rice into a ball.  Continue making
balls until all ingredients are used. Beat the remaining 1-2 eggs in
a small bowl and pour the bread crumbs into a small bowl. Roll each
rice ball in the egg to coat completely, then roll in the bread
crumbs to cover well. Set aside until all balls are coated. Pour oil
in a deep fryer or saucepan to a depth of 4 inches. Heat to 360F.
Carefully drop the rice balls, a few at a time, into oil and fry,
turning frequently, until golden brown all around, about 5 minutes.
With a slotted utensil, transfer to paper toweling to drain. If
desired, place in a low oven to keep warm until all are cooked. Serve
warm.

