Title: Rolled Buttery Lemon Cookies (Mailanderli)
Categories: Cake/cookie, European, Dessert
Yield: 50 servings
Lemon
1 3/4 c  All-purpose or unbleached
-white flour
1 lg Egg yolk beaten with 1
-tablespoon water
For glazing cookies.
1/2 c  Butter, slightly softened (1
-stick)
2/3 c  Granulated sugar, plus more
-for garnishing
1 lg Egg
Finely grated peel (yellow
-part only) of 1 large
Grease several baking sheets and set aside.  With a mixer at medium
speed, beat the butter in a large mixer bowl until light and fluffy.
Beat in the sugar until well blended and smooth.  Beat in the egg and
lemon peel.  With the mixer at low speed, beat in the flour just
until evenly incorporated.

Divide the dough in half.  Place each portion between large sheets of
waxed paper.  Use a rolling pin to roll out the dough to a scant 1/4
inch thick. Check the undersides and smooth out any wrinkles in the
waxed paper.  Stack the rolled portions on a tray or baking sheet.
Refrigerate for about 20 minutes or until cold and firm, but not hard.

Heat the oven to 375F.  Working with one chilled portion of dough at
a time (keep the other one chilled), peel away a layer of waxed
paper. (This makes it easier to lift the cookies from the paper
later.) Replace the paper and turn the dough over.  Peel of the
second layer of paper. Using a 2-inch round or scalloped cutter (or a
small juice of sherry glass) cut out the cookies.  Use a spatula to
carefully lift the cookies from the paper and place them about 1 inch
apart on the baking sheets. Reroll the dough scraps between waxed
paper; rechill in the refrigerator. Repeat the process with the
second portion of dough.

Working with a few cookies at a time, brush the tops with the egg
yolk-water mixture using a pastry brush or paper towel.  Sprinkle the
tops lightly with granulated sugar.  Repeat until all of the cookies
are garnished.

Bake the cookies for 6 to 9 minutes or until the top is just tinged
with brown and slightly darker at the edges.  Let cool on the baking
sheets for about 2 minutes.  Transfer to wire racks and let stand
until thoroughly cool.  Store airtight for up to a week.  Freeze for
longer storage.

Makes 50 to 60 cookies.

[THE BALTIMORE SUN; November 25, 1990]

Posted by Fred Peters.

