Title: Shchi (Cabbage Soup)
Categories: Soup/stew, Ussr, Vegetable, Beef, Mushroom
Yield: 10 servings
2 1/2 c  Sauerkraut, packaged (not ca
2 tb Tomato paste
1    Carrot, med; julienne
1    Celery stalk; chopped
1    Turnip, large; peel/diced
16 oz Tomato, plum
Salt; to taste
Pepper, black; to taste
Garlic clove; minced
Dill, fresh; finely chopped
Sour cream
10    Porcini; well rinsed
3 lb Brisket
2 lb Marrow bone, cracked
10 c  ;water
1    Onion, large
1    Carrot, med; peeled
1    Celery stalk w/leaves; chopp
1    Parsnip; peeled
Bouquet garni
Salt; to taste
6 ts Butter, sweet
4 c  Cabbage; shredded
Soak the porcini in 1 cup water for 2 hours.  Drain them, pat dry with
paper towels, chop fine, and set aside.  Discard the liquid or save
for another use.

To make the stock, in a large soup pot, bring the meat, bones, and
water to a boil over high heat, periodically skimming off the foam as
it rises to the top.  Add the remaining stock ingredients, and reduce
the  heat to low. Simmer, covered, until the meat is tender; about
two hours.

Meanwhile, melt half the butter in a deep skillet over medium heat>
Add the cabbage and sauerkraut and saut# for 10 minutes, tossing and
stirring regularly.  Add one cup hot stock (it doesn't have to be
fully cooked) and the tomato paste.  Cover and simmer over low heat
for 35 to 40 minutes.

Melt the remaining butter in another large skillet and saut# the
carrot, onions, celery, turnip, and mushrooms until soft and lightly
browned; about 15 minutes.  When the stock is ready, strain it into a
clean pot. Reserve the meat and discard the other solids.  Add the
sauerkraut and cabbage, the vegetable mixture, and tomatoes to the
stock.  Season with salt and pepper, stir, and cook, covered, over
medium-low heat for 20 minutes.

Cut the meat into bite-size pieces and add it to the soup, along with
the minced garlic.  Simmer for another five minutes.  Let stand for
at least 15 minutes, and preferably a day and a night, before
serving; refrigerate, covered, and reheat slowly if serving the next
day. Serve garnished with fresh dill and sour cream, if desired.

--- Please to the Table
von Bremzen & Welchman

