Title: Stollen
Categories: Bread, German
Yield: 2 servings
2    Eggs; slightly beaten
2/3 c  Granulated sugar
1/2 ts Mace
1/4 ts Ground cardamom
5 1/2 c  All-purpose flour (about)
3/4 c  Chopped blanched almonds
2 tb Confectioners' sugar
1/2 c  Chopped candied citron
1/4 c  Chopped candied angelica
1/2 c  Golden raisins
:Boiling water
8 tb Butter
2 pk Dry yeast
1 c  Milk; warmed
1 ts Salt
PREHEAT OVEN TO 350F. Combine the citron, angelica and raisins in a
small bowl, pour boiling water over to cover, then stir and let
stand. Melt the butter and let cool to lukewarm. Sprinkle the yeast
over the milk in a large bowl, stir, and let stand a few minutes to
dissolve. Add the salt, eggs, butter, granulated sugar, mace and
cardamom, and mix well. Add 2 cups of the flour and beat vigorously
until smooth. Add 3 more cups flour, 1 cup at a time, beating well
after each. After adding the last cup, beat until the dough holds
together in a shaggy ball. Turn out onto a lightly floured surface
and knead for a minute or 2, sprinkling on more flour if necessary to
keep it from being too sticky. Let rest for 10 minutes. Drain the
fruits and raisins in a strainer and press firmly to remove excess
water.

Sprinkle the fruit and nuts over the dough, and resume kneading until
the dough is smooth and elastic. Add a little more flour as necessary
to keep it from being too sticky. Place in a greased bowl, and turn
the dough about to coat all surfaces. Cover and let rise until double
in bulk. (This dough is especially rich, and the first rise might
take as long as 3 hours, depending on the temperature of your
kitchen.) Punch the dough down and divide in half. Shape and pat each
piece into an oval about 10 inches long and 4 1/2 inches at the
widest part. Fold almost in half the long way, bringing the upper
edge only about 2/3 of the way over, so the bottom edge extends
beyond the top. Place the loaves on a greased baking sheet, leaving
several inches between them. Cover lightly and let rise for 45
minutes. Bake in a preheated 350F oven for about 40-to-45 minutes,
until nicely browned. Remove from the oven and dust with the
confectioners' sugar sprinkled through a sieve, then transfer to
racks to cool.

Makes 2 Loaves

MARION CUNNINGHAM

PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK

