Title: Stuffed Fillets with Duxelles and Light Tomato Sauce
Categories: Fish, Microwave
Yield: 1 servings
-(Kafka, influenced by JC)
1    THE DUXELLES STUFFING
1/2 lb  mushrooms 1/2 stick unsalted butter 2-3 shallots, peeled 1/4
cup fresh parsley 1 tbs salt (kosher) ground black pepper and
tarragon to taste.

Wipe mushrooms Chop fine (can use food processor - be careful not to
chop into a paste). Put them in a clean dishtowel or potato ricer and
squeeze out as much moisture as possible. In 1 qt dish, melt butter
for about 1.5 minutes (high). Add mushrooms, stir, and cook uncovered
(high) perhaps 4 minutes In food processor, process parsley and
shallots until fine chopped. Add to mushrooms along with salt &
seasonings, cook uncovered for 5 minutes more.

This makes some extra, which can be frozen and used later. 2. COOKING
THE STUFFED FILLETS

6  flounder or other white fish fillets.

Wash & pat dry the fillets. Spoon some (2 tsp - 1 T) filling onto
each one, and roll up. Place fillets in round dish pointing towards
center, or in a ring. Cover with paper towel (if covered with wrap,
the fish may render more liquid than is desirable.)liquid Cook on
high - testing after 4 minutes for doneness (if it flakes with a
fork, it's probably overdone. Cone & Snyder say to cook until you can
press the flesh with a finger without leaving a dent ... as you
press, it will flake under the pressure of your finger...'). Let
stand for a minute or 2 before serving.

3.  THE SAUCE  (should be started before, and made while fish is
cooking)

unsalted butter 1/4 cup white wine vinegar 1 shallot fine
1 stick
chopped Fresh ground black pepper 1 to 2 tsp tomato paste 1/2 to 1 tbs
capers (mashed )

Cut butter into 8 pieces and chill it thoroughly. Have the ingredients
ready before the fish is cooked, and start the sauce JUST before the
fish. Put vinegar (  if you wish, this can be part dry white wine,
part vinegar), shallot, and pepper in an enamel (or Corning ware)
pan. Reduce over brisk heat until just less than 1 tbs (just a mushy
glaze in the pan). Let cool for a moment off heat Quickly beat in
with a wire whisk 2 pieces of the chilled butter until creamy. Then
continue to beat in the rest of the butter, one piece at a time,
using lowest possible heat (only as necessary) until sauce has
consistency of heavy cream. The trick is to avqidt( actually melting
the butter.  Be sure each piece of butter is incorporated before
adding the next. Quickly stir in the tomato paste and capers, and
serve IMMEDIATELY with the fish.

