Title: Tarascan Bean Soup
Categories: Soup/stew, Vegetable
Yield: 4 servings
2    Cloves roasted *** garlic
2 tb Pureed chipotles in adobo
-(see recipe)
2    Pasilla de Oaxaca chilies
-(or anchos or mulatos),
Stemmed
1/2 c  Peanut oil
3 oz Monterey Jack cheese cut
-into 4 slices.
1/2 lb Dry red kidney beans (1 1/4
-cups)
2    Sprigs epazote, finely
-chopped (Optional) *
1 ts Salt
2 ts Toasted ** dry oregano
1/2 lg White onion, sliced
1 tb Olive oil
1 lb Roma tomatoes
"This soup's hearty nature is appropriate, given the legendary
fierceness of the Tarascan Indians of Michoacan, with whom the dish
originated. The Tarascan civilization of the 14 th and 15th centuries
was one of the few that was never conquered by the Aztecs, and was
one of the last in Mexico to fall to the Spanish conquistadores.

* This herb might be found at Hispanic markets. ** Toast oregano by
quickly stirring it in a hot, dry skillet for about 1 minute. ***
Roast the garlic by wrapping it in foil and slowly baking it in a 300
F oven for about 25 minutes.

Place the beans in a saucepan with the epazote, salt and oregano. Add
enough water to cover the beans.  Cover the pan and bring to a boil.
Reduce to a simmer, and cook for about 1 1/2 hours or until the beans
are soft, stirring occasionally.  Add more water as necessary.

Saute the onions briefly in the olive oil.  Cut the tomatoes in half
and remove the seeds.  Place the tomato halves on a baking sheet and
roast in a 350 F oven for 45 minutes (this intensifies their flavor).
Transfer the tomatoes to a blender, add the cooked beans, onions and
chipotle puree, and blend.  Add a little water if it seems too thick.
Put the pureed mixture through a medium-mesh or fine-mesh sieve or
pass it through a food mill, to remove seeds and skins.

Transfer the soup to a saucepan and heat over low heat.  Meanwhile,
lightly fry the chilies in the peanut oil for a few seconds, just
until softened, and then cut into strips.  Add the slices of cheese
and the chili strips to the soup and season with salt to taste.  When
the cheese has melted, ladle the soup into bowls and serve.

Makes 4 servings.

Per Serving: 253 calories, 12 gm protein, 23 gm carbohydrates, 0 gm
fat, 0 gm saturated fat, 0 mg cholesterol, 1131 mg sodium.

From "The Great Chili Book" by Mark Miller

[Kristen Eddy; The Washington Post; Nov 24, 1991]

Posted by Fred Peters.

