Title: The Best Black Bean Soup
Categories: Soup/stew, Vegetable
Yield: 6 servings
JALAPENO CREAM:
2/3 c  Plain nonfat or low-fat
-yogurt
1    Or 2 fresh jalapenos OR
-pickled jalapenos, seeded
-and
Minced
3 tb Minced fresh parsley
1 tb Minced fresh cilantro
-(Optional)
GARNISHES (Optional):
1/2 c  Chopped red onion
1/2    Avocado, peeled, seeded, and
-chopped
1 lb Black beans, picked over,
-rinsed, and soaked for
10    Hours or longer in water to
-cover by at
Least 4 inches
6 c  Beef broth
8 c  Water
1 cn Tomatoes with their juice,
-chopped (28 to 32
Ounces)
2 ts Cumin
Salt to taste (Optional)
Freshly ground black pepper
-to taste
SOUP:

Drain the beans and put them in a large, heavy pot.  Add the broth and
water.  Bring the beans to a boil, stirring them a few times, reduce
the heat, and simmer the beans in the uncovered pot for 1 hour.

Stir in the tomatoes with their juice and the cumin, and continue
simmering the beans for 2 hours or until the beans are soft (check
after 1 and 1 1/2 hours, since the timing depends on the dryness or
age of the beans.)

Transfer the mixture to a large bowl, and let the mixture cool
briefly. Rinse out the pot.  Then puree the mixture in batches in a
blender or food processor until the mixture is smooth, returning the
puree to the pot as you go.

Season the soup with the salt (if desired) and pepper, and bring the
soup to a simmer.  If the soup is too thin, simmer it in the
uncovered pot, stirring it often, until the desired consistency is
reached.

To prepare jalapeno cream, whisk together the yogurt, jalapenos,
parsley, and, if you are using it, cilantro.  Serve a dollop of the
jalapeno cream atop each bowl of soup.  If you wish, you may also
garnish the soup with the chopped red onion and/or chopped avocado.

PREPARATION TIPS:  You can prepare the soup up to 4 days in advance
and store it, covered, in the refrigerator.  Or you can freeze it.
The jalapeno cream can be prepared 1 or 2 days ahead.

SERVING SUGGESTIONS:  In addition to the jalapeno cream, try
garnishing the soup with chopped red onion and/or chopped avocado.
With bread and salad, this soup could be the base for a light lunch.

Makes 6 to 8 main or 8 to 10 first-course servings.

[ "Jane Brody's Good Food Gourmet";1990; ISBN 0-393-02878-X ]

Posted by Fred Peters.

