Title: Three Meat Stew with Vegetables (Pichelsteiner)
Categories: Soup/stew, German
Yield: 4 servings
-diced
1 sm Celery root, peeled and
-diced, OR 4 celery
Stalks, diagonally sliced
1/2 lb Carrots, peeled and
-diagonally sliced
1 lg Leek (white part only),
-washed and sliced
2 c  Beef stock
Chopped fresh parsley
1 tb Lard
1 1/4 lb Pork and beef as well as
-lamb or mutton (mutton
-gives
An excellent flavor), cut
-into 3/4 inch cubes
2 md To 3 md onions, diced
Salt
Freshly ground black pepper
Crushed marjoram
3 md Potatoes, peeled and finely
Heat the lard in a heavy bottomed pot (or ovenproof Pyrex casserole
or the like).  Lightly sear and mix together the meat cubes and the
onions; season with salt, an ample amount of pepper, and a very
little bit of crushed marjoram.  Remove two thirds of the meat and
onions from the pot and set aside.

Mix the potatoes and vegetables together; spread a third of these
over the bottom layer of meat cubes in the pot or casserole. Sprinkle
with salt and a little pepper.  Alternate 2 more layers of meat with
2 more layers of vegetables.  Each layer should be separately
seasoned with salt and pepper; the top layer MUST consist of
vegetables and potatoes.  Pour in the beef stock. Cover tightly and
cook over medium-low heat for just about 2 hours. Cooking in a 350
degrees F oven is also possible.  You should not stir the stew, but
you can tilt the pot back and forth to circulate the liquid and
prevent the bottom layer from burning.  Serve sprinkled with chopped
parsley.

Variations:

Savoy cabbage is frequently added to the roster of vegetables, and it
tastes delicious.  Sliced kohlrabi would be fine as well.

For a truly gourmet 'Pichelsteiner', 6 to 8 slices of bone marrow
should be briefly sauteed with the onions at the beginning, then
added to one of the in-between layers of meat.  Doubling of
ingredients is advisable. Pichelsteiner tastes excellent reheated.

Makes 4 servings.

From:  THE CUISINES OF GERMANY by Horst Scharfenberg, Simon &
Schuster/Poseidon Press, New York.  1989 Posted by: Karin Brewer,
Cooking Echo, 8/92

