Title: White Clam Chowder with Leeks
Categories: Soup/stew, Seafood
Yield: 12 servings
3 lg Potatoes, peeled and diced
Bouquet garni of bay leaf,
-thyme and parsley
Salt, pepper and cayenne
-pepper
2 c  Peanut oil for frying the
-leeks
1 c  Heavy cream
4 tb Finely chopped chives or
-parsley
3 tb Butter
24    Quahogs (3 cups chopped meat
-and liquor)
3 c  Dry white wine
2 c  (Approx) fish stock, clam
-broth or water
6    Leeks, trimmed and washed
2    Onions
4    Stalks celery
3 oz Salt pork
6    Strips bacon
1/3 c  Flour
This chowder has two twists: bacon is added in addition to salt pork
and fried julienned leeks are used as a garnish.  The recipe comes
from Ris Lacoste, chef at 21 Federal St. in Washington.

Scrub the quahogs and place them in a large, covered pot with the
wine. Steam them for 10 to 15 minutes or until the shells just open.
Shuck the quahogs and grind with a meat grinder or food processor.
Strain the cooking liquid through damp cheesecloth - you should have
2 quarts. If you don'y, add fish stock, clam broth or water to make
up the difference. Reserve the ground clams and the liquid separately.

Finely chop three of the leeks.  Cut the remaining three leeks into
fine julienne and reserve them for the garnish.  Finely chop the
onion and celery.  Finely dice the salt pork and bacon.  Fry the salt
pork and bacon in a large pot over medium heat to render the fat.
Remove the cracklings with a slotted spoon.  Discard all but 6
tablespoons of the fat.

Add the chopped leeks, onion and celery to the pot and gently cook
for 3 to 4 minutes, or until soft.  Stir in the flour and cook over
low heat for 3 to 4 minutes.  Whisk in the reserved liquid and
bouquet garni and gradually bring to a boil.  Add the potatoes and
simmer for 8 to 10 minutes, or until tender.  Stir in the cream,
ground quahogs, cracklings, and salt,pepper and cayenne to taste.

Just before serving, heat the oil to 375F.  Fry the julienned leeks
for 1 minute until crisp.  Drain on paper towels and sprinkle with
salt. To serve, ladle the chowder into bowls.  Place a pat of butter
in each bowl and garnish with the fried leeks.

Makes 12 servings.

[Steven Raichlin; The Baltimore Sun; Sept 22, 1991]

Posted by Fred Peters.

