Title: AMISH TOMATO KETCHUP
Categories: Canning, Sauces, Vegetables
Yield: 1 Batch
6    Celery ribs; trimmed
-- cut in 1/4" thick slices
2 md Onions (abt. 2 cups)
-- peeled and diced
1/4 c  ;Water
3 lb Tomatoes; quartered
5 tb Vinegar
1 c  Dark brown sugar; packed
1/2 tb Allspice berries
1/2 tb Whole cloves
1/2 tb Celery seeds
1 ts Ground mace
1/2 ts Salt
Place the celery, onions and water in a medium-size saucepan over
medium high heat, cover, and bring to a boil. Cook, stirring
occasionally, until the vegetables are nearly soft, about 25 minutes.

Meanwhile, cook tomatoes in a large heavy nonreactive saucepan over
medium heat, partially covered, until they are very soft and almost a
puree, about 25 minutes. Add the cooked celery and onions; continue
cooking until the vegetables are completely softened, about 15
minutes.

Strain tomato mixture in small batches through a sieve into another
nonreactive saucepan, pressing down firmly to extract all of the
liquid. Stir in the vinegar, brown sugar and spices. Place the pan
over medium high heat and bring to a boil.  Continue boiling,
stirring often to be sure that the ketchup isn't sticking to the
bottom of the pan, until the mixture thickens somewhat, 15 to 20
minutes. Allow ketchup to cool, then ladle into jars.  Cover and
refrigerate for up to 2 months. Or ladle the boiling-hot ketchup into
hot sterilized canning jars. Seal according to the lid manufacturer's
instructions.

Yield: 1 1/2 pints.

Loomis writes:  "This sweet ketchup comes from Mary Linebach, who
owns and runs a produce auction with her [Mennonite] husband, Paul,
in Shippensburg, Pennsylvania."  [Mary describes the ketchup by
saying]: 'The children love it on pancakes...It's sweeter than
store-bought and not as tangy...'

"The ketchup is good on morning hotcakes (an Amish custom) as it is on
Cheddar cheese sandwiches, as a dip for fresh vegetables or freshly
baked bread, and as a condiment with roast or fried meat or poultry.
And it has one distinct advantage over the most popular store-bought
brand: You won't have any trouble getting it out of the bottle,
because it's not thick."

From _Farm House Cookbook_ by Susan Herrmann Loomis. New York: Workman
Publishing Company, Inc., 1991.  Pp. 334-336. ISBN 0-89480-772-2.
Typed for you by Cathy Harned.

