Title: AMY SCHERBER'S PECAN STICKY BUNS
Categories: Breads, Dessert
Yield: 9 Large buns
2 1/4 ts Active dry yeast
1/4 c  (2 ounces) very warm water
(105 to 115 degrees F)
5 1/3 c  (24 ounces) unbleached
All-purpose flour
2 1/4 ts Kosher salt
2 c  (16 ounces) warm water (90
Degrees F)
9 tb (4 1/2 ounces) unsalted
Butter
1/2 c  Plus 1 tablespoon(5 ounces)
Dark brown sugar, firmly
Packed
4 tb (2 ounces)unsalted butter,
Softened
2/3 c  Plus 1 tablespoon (2 3/4
Ounces) pecan pieces
Toasted
1/3 c  Plus 1 tablespoon (2 1/2
Ounces) granulated sugar
1 ts Cinnamon
Equipment: One 9-inch square baking pan, preferably non-stick,
buttered on sides only; one sheet pan, lined with aluminum foil

Place the yeast and warm water in a small bowl and stir with a fork to
dissolve the yeast. Allow it to stand for about 3 minutes. Mix the
flour and salt together in a large bowl. Add the warm water and the
yeast mixture and stir with your fingers to moisten the flour,
scraping the sides of the bowl and folding the dough over itself
until it gathers into a shaggy mass.

Move the dough to a lightly floured surface and knead it by hand for 5
minutes. This is a soft, moist dough. If the dough seems too stiff
and hard to knead, add extra warm water 1 tablespoon at a time until
you get a nice malleable dough. Gently shape the dough into a loose
ball, cover it with plastic, and let it rest on the table for 20
minutes. (This rest period is the autolyse.)

Gently knead the dough on the lightly floured surface for 1 to 2 more
minutes, or until it becomes smooth, supple, and elastic but not too
firm. The texture of the dough should be soft but springy. Shape the
dough into a loose ball, place it in a lightly oiled bowl, and turn
to coat the top with oil. Cover it tightly with plastic wrap and let
it rise at room temperature (75 to 77 degrees F)until it has doubled
in volume, about 1 1/2 to 2 hours

While the dough is rising; in a small saucepan, heat the 9 tablespoons
butter and the dark brown sugar over low heat, stirring occasionally,
until the butter has melted and the sugar is completely moistened (it
won't be dissolved), then whisk until the mixture looks silky and a
little lighter in color. Use 1 tablespoon softened butter to grease
the sides of a 9-inch square pan, then pour in the caramel, tilting
the pan slightly so the mixture spreads evenly over the bottom of the
pan. Sprinkle the toasted pecans over the warm caramel and press them
down slightly. Put the pan in the refrigerator to cool the caramel;
be the pan's on a level surface. Put the granulated sugar and
cinnamon in a small bowl and stir until evenly mixed. Set aside.

When the dough has doubled, gently pour it out of the bowl onto the
floured work surface. Flatten the dough and stretch it with your
fingers to form a 13 by 10-inch rectangle, with a long side facing
you. Work gently so you don't tear the dough surface. The dough
should stretch easily at this point, but if it resists, let it rest
for 5 minutes and resume stretching. Check to be sure the dough isn't
sticking to the work surface; flour the table again, if necessary.

Spread 3 tablespoons of the softened butter evenly over the the dough,
leaving a 1/2-inch strip unbuttered along the top edge. Sprinkle the
cinnamon/sugar mixture generously and evenly over the butter, again
leaving the top 1/2-inch of the rectangle bare. Starting with the
bottom edge, roll up the dough jelly-roll fashion into a long log. If
the dough sticks to the table as you're rolling, use a dough scraper
to loosen it gently. Pinch gently but firmly along the seam to seal
it. If necessary, gently shape the roll so it is a nice uniform log.

Take the caramel-lined pan out of the refrigerator. Cut the log of
dough into 9 equal pieces. (It's easiest to mark the roll first to
show where you're going to make the cuts--a slight indentation with
the knife edge will do--then use a sharp serrated knife to cut
completely through the dough.) Lay the pieces cut side down on top of
the caramel. Don't worry if it's a tight fit. Let rise, uncovered, at
room temperature until the dough has almost doubled, about 1 to 1 1/4
hours. The rolls should fill the pan and extend 1/2 to 3/4-inch above
it. In the meantime, position a rack in the center of the oven and
preheat the oven to 375 degrees F. Put the pan of sticky buns on a
foil-lined baking sheet and place it in the oven. Bake for 10
minutes, then reduce the oven temperature to 350 degrees F and bake
for 30 to 40 minutes longer, until the tops of the buns are golden
brown and crusty. It's important to bake the buns long enough so the
dough is cooked all the way through and the caramel topping develops
properly. Set the pan of buns on a rack to cool for 5 minutes. Then
quickly but carefully turn the pan upside down and release the sticky
buns onto a large flat heat proof plate. Immediately scrape out any
caramel remaining and spread it on top of the buns, filling in any
bare spots. Let them cool until just warm before serving.

