Title: ANDOUILLE SAUSAGE MAKING
Categories: Sausages
Yield: 6 Lbs
1 1/2    Yd large sausage casing
Approx (2-3 in wide)
4 lb Lean fresh pork
2 lb Pork fat
3 1/3 tb Finely minced garlic
2 tb Salt
1/2 ts Fresh grnd black pepper
1/8 ts Cayenne
1/8 ts Chili powder
1/8 ts Mace
1/8 ts Allspice
1/2 ts Dried thyme
1 tb Paprika
1/4 ts Ground bay leaf
1/4 ts Sage
5 ts Liquid hickory smoke
Andouille was a great favorite in nineteenth-century New Orleans. This
thick Cajun sausage is made with lean pork and pork fat and lots of
garlic. Sliced about 1/2 inch thick and greilled, it makes a
delightful appetizer. It is also used in a superb oyster and
andouille gumbo poplular in Laplace, a Cajun town about 30 miles from
New Orleans that calls itself the Andouille Capital of the World.

Soak the casing about an hour in cold water to soften it and to
loosen the salt in which it is packed.  Cut into 3 yard lengths, then
place the narrow end of the sausage stuffer in one end of the casing.
Place the wide end of the stuffer up against the sink faucet and run
cold water through the inside of the casing to remove any salt. (Roll
up the casing you do not intend to use; put about 2 inches of coarse
salt in a large jar, place the rolled up casing on it, then fill the
rest of the jar with salt. Close tightly and refrigerate for later
use.)

Cut the meat and fat into chunks about 1/2 inch across and pass once
through the coarse blade of the meat grinder. Combine the pork with
the remaining ingredients in a large bowl and mix well with a wooden
spoon. Cut the casings into 26 inch lengths and stuff as follows: Tie
a knot in each piece of casing about 2 inches from one end. Fit the
open end over the tip of the sausage stuffer and slide it to about 1
inch from the wide end. Push the rest of the casing onto the stuffer
until the top touches the knot. (The casing will look like accordian
folds on the stuffer.) Fit the stuffer onto the meat grinder as
directed on the instructions that come with the machine, or hold the
wide end of the stuffer against or over the opeoning by  hand. Fill
the hopper with stuffing. Turn the machine on if it is electric  and
feed the stuffing gradually into the hopper; for a manual machine,
push the stuffing through with a wooden pestle. The sausage casing
will fill and inflate gradually.  Stop filling about 1 1/4 inches
from the funnel end and slip the casing off the funnel, smoothing out
any bumps carefully with your fingers and being careful not to push
the stuffing out of the casing.  Tie off the open end of the sausage
tightly with a piece of string or make a knot in the casing itself.
Repeat until all the stuffing is used up.

To cook, slice the andouille 1/2 inch thick and grill in a hot
skillet with no water for about 12 minutes on each side, until brown
and crisp at the edges.

(about 6 pounds of 20 inch sausage, 3 to 3 1/2 inches thick)

Paul A. Meadows - Concepts In Drug Education Ottawa, Ont K1S 5J6 FAX
613-565-3759

~~~ Rec.food.recipes is moderated; only recipes and recipe requests
are accepted for posting. Please read the "Posting Guidelines"
article first. Submissions go to recipes@rt66.com; questions/comments
go to tfdpress@acpub.duke.edu. Please allow several days for your
submission to appear. Xref: news.demon.co.uk rec.food.recipes:7473
Path: news.demon.co.uk!peernews.demon.co.uk!news.sprintlink.n
t!news.clark.n t!ra
hul.net!a2i!mack.rt66.com!mack.rt66.com!not-for-mail From:
af656@freenet.carleton.ca (Paul A. Meadows) Newsgroups:
rec.food.recipes Subject: Andouille Sausage Followup-To:
rec.food.cooking Date: 16 Apr 1995 21:34:04 -0600 Organization:
Engineering International Inc., Public Internet Access Lines: 47
Sender: phill@mack.rt66.com Approved: phill@rt66.com Message-ID:
<199504100404.AAA27777@freenet2.carleton.ca> Reply-To:
af656@freenet.carleton.ca (Paul A. Meadows) NNTP-Posting-Host:
mack.rt66.com

MM: Andouille(2) Sausage Making

