Title: ANGEL HAIR PASTA WITH LEMON & GARLIC
Categories: Try it, Starch, Low-fat
Yield: 4 Servings
MMMMM----------------IN THE KITCHEN WITH ROSIE; D---------------------
1 ts Olive oil
2    Garlic cloves, peel & mince
1/2 c  Dry white wine
1/4 c  Lemon juice
1 c  Tomato, chopped (1 medium)
4 oz Spinach angel hair pasta
-dried
4 oz Semoliina angel hair pasta
-dried
1/4 c  Fresh basil, chopped
2 tb Parmesan cheese, grated
Black pepper
Bring a large pot of water to a boil over high heat and maintain at a
boil.

Put the olive oil and garlic in a saut. pan and cook over medium heat
just until the garlic begins to brown. Remove the saut. pan from the
heat and pour in the wine. Return it to the heat. Cook for another 1
to 2 minutes, until the wine has been reduced by half. Stir in the
lemon juice and tomato.  Remove the pan from the heat.

Place the pasta in the boiling water and cook to desired doneness, 30
seconds to 1 minute.  Drain the pasta and put it into a warm serving
bowl. Add the basil, Parmesan cheese, and black pepper, along with
the tomato mixture.  Toss and serve immediately.

Fat per serving = 4.1 grams Calories per serving = 291

Delicate angel hair pasta demands a light and elegant sauce, such as
this simple white wine mixture flecked with bits of fresh tomato and
basil. It's a terrific first course of luncheon dish. I find the
spinach and semolina varieties to be somewhat sturdier than plain
wheat-flour angel hair pasta, but you still need to handle them
carefully. Cook for only 30 seconds to 1 minute, toss, and serve
immediately.

I prefer dried pasta to fresh for several reasons, not the least of
which is that it lacks the fat and cholesterol of the fresh variety,
which is made with eggs. Better-quality dried pastas can be purchased
in a seemingly endless range of flavors--usually at a fraction of the
price of fresh. They hold up to the most robust of sauces and are
simpler to cook.

If you use fresh pasta, be sure to separate the strands before adding
them to the pot so tht they don't stick together while cooking. Time
carefully. Fresh pasta is done in 3 to 5 minutes and can be
overcooked easily.

Nutritional information per serving:  xx calories, xx gm protein, xx
mg cholesterol,  xx gm carbohydrate, xx mg sodium, x.x gm fiber, xx
gm fat ( x gm sat,  x gm mono,  x gm poly), x.x mg iron,  xx mg
calcium, x% of calories from fat.

Brought to you by MMCONV and Sylvia Steiger, GEnie THE.STEIGERS, CI$
71511,2253, Internet sylvia.steiger@lunatic.com, moderator of GT
Cookbook and PlanoNet Lowfat & Luscious echoes

Date: 06-28-94 The Lunatic
From: Debra Antes
Fringe Bbs (901) F-Cooking

