Title: ANGEL HAIR PASTA WITH ROASTED PEPPER SALSA AN
Categories: Pasta, Poultry
Yield: 5 Servings
1 lb Angel Hair or Capellini
-- uncooked
2    Red bell peppers; OR...
1    -Red bell peeper -AND-
1    -Yellow bell pepper
3 tb Finely shredded fresh basil
1 ts Balsamic vinegar
-OR fresh lemon juice
1    Garlic clove; minced
1/4 ts Salt, or to taste
Pepper to taste
1 tb Olive oil or vegetable oil
8 oz Boneless chicken breasts
--(without skin),
-- cut into small cubes
1/2 c  Chicken broth
Roast and peel the peppers as follows: Place the peppers directly
over a gas jet of the range (or under a pre-heated broiler), turning
them often with a pair of tongs, until blackened on all sides.
Transfer them to a bowl and cover tightly with plastic wrap. Let them
stand until cool. Cut the peppers in half lengthwise and remove the
stems and seeds. Scrape off the blackened skin of the pepper. Cut the
peppers into 1/4-inch pieces.

Toss the diced roasted peppers with the basil, balsamic vinegar or
lemon juice, garlic, salt and pepper in a small bowl. (This salsa may
be prepared and refrigerated up to one day in advance.)

Prepare pasta according to package directions. While pasta is
cooking, heat the oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat. Add
the chicken and stir until cooked through, about 4 minutes. Add the
roasted pepper salsa and stir 30 seconds, scraping up the brown bits
that stick to the pan. Remove the skillet from the heat.

Drain the pasta, reserving 1/4 cup of the cooking water. Add the
water and the chicken broth to the skillet with the chicken mixture.
Return the pasta to the pot. When the chicken is cooked through,
transfer the contents of the skillet to the pot and heat over high
heat until the sauce is boiling and reduced enough to lightly coat
the pasta. Season to taste. Serve hot.

Each serving provides: 436 Calories; 23 g Protein; 72.8 g
Carbohydrates; 5.1 g Fat; 26.5 mg Cholesterol; 203 mg Sodium.
Calories from Fat: 11%

Copyright National Pasta Association (http://www.ilovepasta.org)
(Reprinted with permission)

