Title: Chilled Trout in Dill Sauce
Categories: Fish
Yield: 4 servings
4    Whole cleaned trout
(each about 1/2 lb.)
Basic poaching liquid
Parsley sprigs
Lemon wedges
1 c  Sour cream
4 ts Lemon juice
3/4 ts Salt
1/2 ts Dillweed
MMMMM-------------------BASIC POACHING LIQUID------------------------
1 md Onion (sliced)
6    Whole black peppers
2    Whole allspice
3 tb Lemon juice or white wine
Vinegar
1    Bay leaf
1 ts Salt
1/2 c  Dry white wine (or water)
1 qt Water
About 3-4 hours before you intend to serve, poach trout in basic
poaching liquid (recipe and directions follow).  When done, transfer
to a serving platter and let cool; then cover and chill.
About 10 minutes before serving time, remove cover from fish and,
holding fish in place with wide spatula, drain off and discard any
juices that might have collected on platter.  Wipe platter and
garnish with parsley sprigs and lemon wedges.
In a bowl, combine sour cream, lemon juice, salt and dill weed. Mix
thoroughly. Serve sauce in small serving bowl to spoon over fish.
Basic Poaching Liquid In a poaching pan or 3-quart pan, combine
onion, whole black peppers, whole allspice, lemon juice or white wine
vinegar, bay leaf, salt, dry white wine (or water), (you will need
just enough to cover fish pieces, so amount of water and wine may be
varied accordingly). Cover and simmer ingredients for at least 20
minutes.
Recipe may be doubled or tripled if larger amounts are needed (if so,
simmer ingredients for 30 minutes to 1 hour).  Poaching liquid may be
reused several times - it will simply acquire more flavor, the more
often it is used.  However, liquid should not be stored in the
refrigerator longer than 2 days; freeze in an airtight container if
longer storage is necessary. How to Poach Bring poaching liquid to a
boil in poaching pan on top of the stove. Lower fish into simmering
liquid - there should be just enough liquid to cover fish; if not,
add equal parts water and dry white wine (or all water) just to cover
fish. Reduce heat, cover, and simmer gently (water should never be
allowed to boil).
Cook until fish flakes readily when prodded in thickest portion with
a fork - for a 1-inch thick piece of fish (measured in thickest
portion), allow 10 minutes from the moment simmering resumes after
fish has been added.  (Allow same ratio of thickness to time - 1
inch: 10 minutes - for fishes of all thicknesses.) When, done, lift
fish from liquid with a wide spatula, supporting it with cheesecloth
if necessary. Drain well; then open cheesecloth carefully and gently
remove it from fish.

