Title: Cocada Imperial (Imperial Coconut Flan)
Categories: Dessert, Tex/mexican
Yield: 6 servings
2 c  Milk
3/4 c  Granulated sugar
1    Small coconut
5    Small eggs, separated
Pinch   salt
Flan mold coated with
Caramel
Preheat the oven to 450F.

Place the sugar and milk in a heavy saucepan and melt the sugar
over low heat, then raise the heat and boil the mixture briskly.
Take care that it does not boil over.  As soon as the mixture begins
to thicken, stir it so that it does not stick to the bottom of the
pan.  After about 30 minutes it should be the consistency of thin
condensed milk and has been reduced to 1 cup.  See Note.

Pierce holes through two of the "eyes" of the coconut and drain
the water from it.  Set the water aside.

Put the whole coconut into the oven for about 8 minutes.  Crack
it open; the flesh should come away quite easily from the shell.

Pare the brown skin from the coconut flesh with a potato peeler.
Grate the coconut finely.  You will need 2 1/4 cups, loosely packed,
for the flan.

Add the grated coconut to the reserved coconut water and boil it
for about 5 minutes, stirring it constantly.

Add the "condensed" milk and continue cooking for another 5
minutes. Set the mixture aside to cool.

Beat the egg yolks together until they are creamy and stir them
well into the coconut mixture.

Beat the egg whites until they are frothy, add the salt and
continue beating until they are stiff.  Fold them into the mixture.

Pour the mixture into the prepared mold.  Cover the mold with a
well-greased lid and place into a water bath.

Cook the flan on the lowest shelf of the oven for about 1 1/2
hours, then test to see if it is done.  When it is done, set it aside
to cool.

Makes 6 servings.

NOTES:
Of course, you can substitute1 cup of lightly thinned canned,
sweetened condensed milk for the milk and sugar and substitute
pre-grated but unsweetened coconut.  Use milk instead of coconut
water; the flavor will just not be quite as good.

Do not think you have done something wrong when you see that the
coconut and custard have separated.  That is how it is meant to be.
The caramel will nearly all have been absorbed by the spongy layer of
coconut.

If you are using fresh coconut there will almost certainly be
some left over.  It will keep perfectly well if frozen.

To test to see if the flan is cooked through, insert the blade
of a knife or a skewer well into the flan.  The knife should come out
clean. Take care not to pierce the flan at the bottom or it will
spoil the appearance of the top when it is unmolded.

From: The Cuisines of Mexico; Diana Kennedy; ISBN 0-06-091561-7
Posted by Fred Peters.

