Title: Garlic-Stuffed Mushrooms
Categories: Herbs/spice, Appetizer, Chicken
Yield: 4 servings
12 ea Medium mushrooms
3 T  Unsalted butter
2 ea Scallions, sliced
1 1/2 T  Coarsely ground pecans
1 1/2 T  Fresh parmesan cheese *
1 1/2 T  Bread crumbs
1/4 c  Garlic bechemel
1 x  Salt (to taste)
1 x  Freshly ground white pepper
1 x  Cayenne pepper
4 T  Unsalted butter
4 T  Unbleached all-purpose fl
*  Grate the Fresh Parmesan Cheese for this recipe.
~--- Preheat oven to 450 degrees F. Clean the mushrooms.  Remove the
stems and reserve. Parboil the mushrooms in just enough water to
cover, for 3 minutes, until barely cooked.  Drain well, blot with
paper towels, and set aside until needed. If the tip of the stems
seem woody, trim them away. Chop stems coarsely. Melt 2 T of the
butter in a skillet. Toss the chopped mushrooms stems and scallions.
Saute until tender and most of the mushroom juices have evaporated.
Toss in the pecans, pecans, bred crumbs, parmesan cheese, and
remaining tablespoon of butter. Stir until the butter is melted and
absorbed. Stir in the garlic bechamel. Add salt and freshly ground
pepper to taste. Stuff each mushroom cap with the mixture, mounding
it neatly over the top. Sprinkle each with some cayenne pepper. Put
stuffed mushrooms in a lightly oiled, shallow baking dish.  Bake for
10 minutes or until heated through.  Serve at once. GARLIC BECHAMEL:
2 1/2 C Scalded Milk (More or less, depending on the thickness of 1
Salt and Freshly Ground White Pepper To Taste 1
X
X
Egg At Room Temperature. 1
Of Roasted Garlic Melt the butter in a heavy saucepan and whisk in
the flour. Let this roux cook over low heat, stirring constantly for
3 to 4 minutes. Whisk in the scalded milk.  Bring to a boil. Reduce
the heat and cook gently, stirring frequently, for 10 to 15 minutes.
Add salt and pepper and whisk in the garlic puree.  Remove from the
heat. Beat the egg in a bowl. Beat some of the sauce into the egg.
Next beat the egg mixture back into the garlic sauce.  Taste and
correct seasonings. Store in the refrigerator, with plastic wrap
placed directly on the surface of the sauce, until needed.  Thin with
milk before using if necessary.

