Title: Green Corn Tamales
Categories: Tex/mexican
Yield: 24 servings
12    Ears of fresh white or
Yellow corn
1 lb Monterrey Jack cheese,
Grated
1 lb Pure lard
1/2 lb Butter
1/2 c  (scant) sugar
1/4 c  Light cream, or more
2    Green chiles, parched and
Peeled
1 lb Cheddar or Longhorn cheese
Salt
1.  Chop stalk end of each ear of corn flush with the base of the
ear. Shuck, being careful to keep corn husks intact for later use.
Wash husks, and drain.

2.  Cut corn off cobs.  Grind corn with the Jack cheese in a meat
grinder, blender or food processor.

3.  Cream lard and butter to a smooth and fluffy consistency with
an electric mixer at medium speed.  Add the ground corn and cheese
mixture, sugar, cream and salt to taste.  Continue to mix with the
electric mixer until mixture looks like whipped cream. Add more cream
if mixture is dry.

4.  Cut the roasted green chiles into long strips.  Spread about 2
tablespoons of the corn mixture on each corn husk.  Spread mixture
out into a rectangle and allow at least 2 inches of husk to extend
below the corn mixture and a few inches of margin on both sides of
the husk. Place about 2 strips of green chile down the center of the
corn mixture, then sprinkle with a few pinches of the grated Cheddar
cheese.

5.  Hold the two sides of the tamale together to make the corn
mixture fold up around the filling.  Then tuck one edge of the husk
over the top of the tamale and roll, tying the ends with strips of
corn husks. If preferred, the bottom end of the husk can be folded up
before rolling. If you plan to freeze the tamales, freeze them at
this point.

6.  Place the tamales upright on a rack in a pressure cooker or
large steaming kettle.  Before the rack is completely filled with
tamales, pour 1 to 2 cups water into the bottom of the pan, about 1/2
inch deep.

7.  Steam at 15 lbs pressure for 25 minutes, or in a conventional
steamer for 45 minutes.  Serve warm with Green Chile Sauce, plain, or
with beef, pork or chicken added.  These may be kept in the
refrigerator for 3 to 4 days.

Makes 24 tamales.

Freezing Hint:  Package tamales in plastic bags, 12 per package
or other suitable quantity.  If packaging large
quantities, keep track of the contents on a
card. Maximum Recommended Freezer Storage: 1 year

From:  JANE BUTEL'S TEX-MEX COOKBOOK by Jane Butel, Harmony Books,
New York.  1980.  ISBN 0-517-539861 Posted by: Karin Brewer,
Cooking Echo, 1/93

