Title: Mustard
Categories: Herbs/spice
Yield: 1 servings
No Ingredients
White or yellow, brown and black seeds come from the mustard plant,
according to the species. Most commonly found is the creamy yellow
type which is the least pungent. The brown type (or Indian mustard)
is stronger in flavor, while the black mustard seed is the most
powerful of all. The creamy yellow seeds are more widely available,
but look for the black and brown types in Asian and Oriental food
shops and delicatessens.

Whole mustard seeds have a pleasant nutty bite to them and can be
used to add piquancy to salad dressing and hot sauces. They are
especially good when served with fish, chicken and pork and are also
delicious added to cole slaw, creamy potato salad, pickles and
chutneys. Use mustard seeds (especially the two hotter varieties)
with discretion to begin with, increasing the amount as you become
more familiar with the flavors.

It is the yellow seed which, when processed with black seeds, wheat
flour and turmeric, forms the basis of English mustard. Dry mustard
can be used as it is in cooking, or it may be mixed to a paste with a
little cord or warm water. (For a nice, rich mixture, why not try
mixing it with a little cream or milk?) Once mixed it should be left
at least 10 minutes to allow time for the flavors to develop. It is
only when the powder is mixed with a liquid that the essential oils
are released, giving mustard its pungency and sensation of heat.
Remember that made mustard loses its pungency after a few hours. Jars
of prepared mustard, once opened, need using within a few weeks as
the flavor and color will deteriorate.

The variety of ready-prepared mustards come in a bewildering number of
mouthwatering flavors, according to the manufacturer. These can be
made from milled mustard flour, or from coarsely crushed seed (the
proportions of which vary tremendously, depending on the type). Some
are mixed with vinegar, others with grape juice or wine (and
sometimes beer), and often contain various spices, herbs and
seasonings, such as honey and horseradish. German mustard, which is
mild and sweet-flavored, is a mixture of brown and white mustard
flour moistened with vinegar and flavored with various spices. The
mild-flavored American mustard (popular with children) generally uses
only yellow mustard seeds with the addition of sugar, vinegar and
salt. Dijon-style mustard, nade from milled, husked black seeds, is
flavored with wine and spices. The pungent and spicy grainy types of
mustard are a mixture of whole, crushed black and yellow seeds with
additional flavorings added for individuality.

Mustards of all types can be used to great effect, not only as a
condiment, but also as a culinary ingredient. They add bite and
piquancy to all types of savory dishes from scrambled eggs, sauces
and dressings to deviled mixtures, barbecued food, soups, casseroles,
pastry, scones and cheesy biscuits.

