Title: Passover Forgotten Torte with Raspberry Sauce
Categories: Dessert, Jewish, Fruit, Nuts/grains
Yield: 12 servings
3/4 c  Egg whites; 6 at room temper
2 ts Lemon juice
3/4 ts Vanilla
1/4 ts Almond extract
1 1/4 c  Sugar
1 c  Whipping cream
2 ts Sugar
1 ts Vanilla
3 c  Red raspberries;  OR
12 oz Pkg. frozen red raspberries;
1 tb Sugar
Fresh mint leaves(optional)
1.) Preheat oven to 450. Grease the bottom of a 10-inch springform
pan. Set aside.
2.) For torte; in a mixer bowl; beat egg whites, lemon juice 3/4 tsp.
vanilla and almond extract with an electric mixer on med. speed. Beat
for about 3-4 minutes or till soft peaks form (tips curl).
3.) Gradually beat in the 1 1/4 c. sugar, 1 tbsp. at a time, beating
on high speed till stiff peaks form (tips stand straight) and sugar
is almost dissolved (about 10 min)4.) Using a rubber scraper,
transfer mixture to prepared pan and smooth top. Scrape around the
sides and center post (if using tube pan), leaving a small trench
between the meringue and the pan. 
5.) Place in preheated oven. Tun off oven., Let torte dry in oven
with door closed for at least 8 hrs. or overnight. If using a tube
pan, loosen edges and center with a sharp knife. Lift out tube. (Or
remove sides of springform pan) Slide knife under meringue. Invert
onto a serving plate. Cover with plastic wrap and foil; freeze if
desired.
6.) About 4-8 hours before serving, in a small mixer bowl, beat
whipping cream till soft peaks form . Add the 2 tsps. of sugar and 1
tsp. of vanilla; beat till stiff peaks form. Frost the tops and sides
of the torte. Cover and chill til serving time. 
7.) For raspberry sauce, in a food processor bowl or blender
container, combine the raspberries and 1 tbsp. sugar. Cover; process
or blend till smooth. Strain sauce, if desired.
8.) Serve the sliced torte topped with raspberry sauce. Garnish with
fresh mint leaves, if desired.

Makes 1 torte serves 12. Credits go to Sharon Winstein/Midwest Living
Magazine
*You can make both the billowy white torte and its sauce ahead of
time. That's convenient for serving during seder. Lisa/Cedar Rapids
FROM: LISA CRAWLEY (TSPN00B)

