Title: Pierogi
Categories: Pasta, Side dish, Tex/mexican
Yield: 6 servings
2    Eggs
1/2 c  Water
2 c  Flour
1/2 ts Salt
Mound flour on kneading board and make hole in center. Drop eggs into
hole and cut into flour with a knife. Add salt and water and knead
until firm. Let rest for 10 minutes covered with a warm bowl. Divide
dough in halves and roll thin. Cut circles with a large biscuit
cutter. Place a small mound of filling a little to one side on each
round of dough. Moisten edge with a little water, fold over and press
edges firmly together. Be sure they are well sealed to prevent the
filling from running out. Drop the pierogi into salted boiling water.
Cook gently for for 3 to 5 minutes. Lift out of water carefully with
a perforated spoon.

The dough has a tendency to dry while you are working. A dry dough
will not seal completely. We suggest rolling out a large circle of
dough, placing small mounds of filling far enough apart to allow for
cutting, and folding the dough over the mounds of filling. Then cut
with a small biscuit cutter and seal firmly.

Never crowd or pile pierogi. The uncooked will stick and the cooked
will lose shape and lightness.

Note: Pierogi can be frozen after boiling and they keep well. I
perfer all my pierogi fried in butter and onions and seasoned with
salt and pepper. They should be fried on a medium low heat till
golden brown.

VARIETIES OF FILLING

Cheese

1 cup cottage cheese 1 tsp. melted butter 1 egg beaten 3 tbsp sugar 3
tbsp currants 1/4 tsp cinnamon

cream cheese with melted butter. Add other ingredients and mix well.
Fill pierogi. Serve with melted butter and sour cream.

Cheese

1 cup dry cottage cheese 1 dash of salt 1 tsp. lemon 1 tbsp sugar 1
egg 1 egg yolk

Mix ingredients thoroughly. Fill pierogi.

Cabbage and Mushrooms

1 small head cabbage 2 cups mushrooms 2 tbsp sour cream 1 small onion,
chopped fine butter salt and pepper

Quarter cabbage and cook in salted water for 15 minutes. Drain, cool
and chop fine. Saute onion in butter, add chopped mushrooms and fry 5
minutes. Add chopped cabbage and continue to fry until flavors blend.
Add sour cream and cool. Fill pierogi.

Sauerkraut

Two cups sauerkraut may be substituted for the cabbage. Rinse and chop
sauerkraut. Proceed as above.

Mushrooms

1 cup chopped mushrooms 1 onion chopped fine salt and pepper 2 egg
yolks butter

Saute onion in butter. Add mushrooms. Season. Remove from fire, add
egg yolks and stir well. Cool and fill pierogi. Serve with chopped
onion browned in butter.

Mushrooms and meat

1/2 cup cooked beef 1/2 cup chopped mushrooms 1 onion chopped fine
butter salt and pepper 2 tbsp sour cream

Run cooked meat through meat grinder. Fry onion in butter until
transparent, add mushrooms and meat. Season to taste. Add sour cream
and cool before using.

Prunes

1 cup cooked prunes 1 tsp lemon juice 1 tsp sugar

Soak prunes overnight. Cook with sugar and lemon juice. When cool,
remove stones and fill pierogi. Serve with bread crumbs browned in
butter.

