Title: Poulet Chasseur
Categories: Poultry, Main dish, French
Yield: 6 servings
2    Chickens (3-1/2 to 4 lbs ea)
- cut up
Salt and pepper; as desired
1/3 c  Cooking oil
2 md Onions
- peeled and roughly diced
2 md Carrots; roughly diced
1    Celery stalk; roughly sliced
1 tb Minced garlic
4 tb All-purpose flour
2 c  Low-sodium chicken broth
2 tb Tomato paste
2    Bay leaves
1/2 lb Bacon; cut into 1/2-in cubes
1/2 lb Mushrooms, sliced
1/4 c  Brandy
1/4 c  Milk
1/4 c  Cream
1 tb Chopped fresh tarragon
PREHEAT OVEN TO 325F. Pat the chicken pieces dry and sprinkle with
salt and pepper. Heat the oil in a large covered oven-proof casserole
or Dutch oven over medium-high heat on top of the stove. Add the
chicken pieces and brown well on all sides, about 7 minutes. The
chicken should not crowd the pan so you may have to perform this
operation in batches. Remove pieces to a plate as they are done.
Discard all but 2 tablespoons oil, reduce heat to medium and replace
skillet on the stove top. Add onion, carrot, celery and garlic and
cook about 3 minutes. Sprinkle with flour and cook, stirring, another
minute. Add the stock, tomato paste and bay leaves. Replace the
chicken thighs and drumsticks in the casserole with any accumulated
juices from the chicken. Cover and bring to a boil. Place the
casserole in the oven. After 15 minutes, add the reserved breasts and
cook 20 minutes longer. Remove from the oven, remove the chicken from
the casserole and set aside. Strain the sauce through a fine sieve
and discard vegetables. Place bacon in another medium oven-proof pot
on the stove over medium heat and cook, stirring occasionally, for 5
minutes. Pour off excess fat and add the mushrooms, brandy, milk,
cream and braising sauce. Mix well. Arrange chicken pieces on the
bacon-mushroom mixture, cover and place in the oven for 15 minutes or
until bubbling hot. To serve, arrange the chicken pieces on a platter
and spoon the bacon, mushrooms and sauce over the top and garnish
with tarragon.

MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK

