Title: Stained Glass Cookies
Categories: Cake/cookie, Candy
Yield: 1 servings
2 3/4 c  All purpose flour
1/2 ts Baking powder
1/2 ts Salt
2/3 c  Sugar
1 c  Unsalted butter
2 ts Lightly beaten egg
1 1/2 ts Pure vanilla extract
1/8 ts Lemon extract
1 c  Sour balls
Soften the butter.  In a mixing bowl, cream together the butter and
sugar until fluffy.  Add the egg and extracts and beat until blended.
In a small bowl, whisk together the remaining dry ingredients. On low
speed, gradually add them to the butter mixture and mix just until
the dough can be gathered into a ball.  Scrape the dough onto a sheet
of plastic wrap and use the wrap (not your fingers) to press the
dough together to form a thick flat disc.  Wrap it well and
refridgerate for at least 30 minutes, preferably no longer than 3
hours.

Place 2 oven racks in the upper and lower thirds of the oven.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees.

Separate the sour balls into individual colors and pulverize them
separately in a blender or food processor. Place each color in a small
container and set aside.

Using about a quarter of the dough at a time, roll out the dough to
1/8 inch thickness between 2 sheets of plastic wrap, or on a lightly
floured counter.  Cut the cookies out with a 3 inch cookie cutter,
spraying or greasing the cutter as needed to prevent sticking. With a
small spatula,transfer the cookies to foil lined cookie sheets
sprayed with nonstick vegetable coating.  If you are planning to hang
the cookies, make holes in the tops.

Cut out shapes for the stained glass in each cookie with small
cutters or with a small sharp knife.  Use the tip of the knife to
fill the holes with candy pieces, filling just to the top of the
dough.

Bake 10 to 12 minutes or until the cookies are lightly browned and
the candy has melted completely.  For even baking, rotate the cookie
sheets frm top to bottom and front to back during baking. Watch
carefully toward the end of baking to see that the candy does not
turn brown. Allow to cool on baking sheets and carefully peel off
aluminum foil.

FROM:    BEVERLY LEYMON   (GWRR14B)

