Title: GRILLED STUFFED FRESH PASILLA CHILE WITH AVOC
Categories: Appetizers
Yield: 6 Servings
Stephen Ceideburg
6    Fresh pasilla (poblano)
-chiles, Anaheims or
-pimientos
1/2 c  Grated fontina cheese
1/2 c  Grated Monterey Jack cheese
1/2 c  Grated Jarisberg cheese
1 c  Grated white cheddar cheese
1/2 c  Grated Asiago or Parmesan
-cheese
12    Cilantro sprigs
AVOCADO SALSA:
2    Ripe avocados
1/2    To 1 jalapeno chile,
-roasted, seeded and minced
1/2 sm Red onion, minced
3    Scallions, minced (white
-part and 2 inches of green)
3 tb Roughly chopped cilantro
2 tb Rice vinegar
6 tb Olive oil
Kosher or sea salt
Freshly ground pepper
Prepare the chiles by cutting all the way around the stem so that you
can remove the stem and seed base in 1 piece. Keeping the stem and
top intact, trim off any seeds and membranes, and if any get left
behind in the pepper, remove them, too. Blanch the chiles for 2
minutes in lightly salted boiling water. Remove the chiles, refresh
in ice water, and drain.

Combine the grated cheeses in a bowl and mix well. Stuff each chile
with about 1/2 cup of the cheese mixture. Do not overstuff or pack
the cheese in too densely. Replace the stem and top of the chile.

Cook on a grill over a medium fire, turning frequently until the
cheeses are melted and the chiles are hot all the way through.

Avocado Salsa: Cut each avocado in half. Remove the seed, make
dice-sized crisscrosses in the avocado flesh with a knife, and scoop
out the dice with a spoon. Place in a mixing bowl and add the chile,
onion, scallions and chopped cilantro. Whisk together the vinegar and
oil in a separate bowl, add salt and pepper to taste, and pour over
the avocado mixture. Mix gently, being careful not to mash the
avocado or the salsa will look like guacamole and taste "muddy."

Place on a bed of Avocado Salsa and garnish with the cilantro sprigs.

PER SERVING: 480 calories, 19 g protein, 12 g carbohydrate, 41 g fat
(15 g saturated), 56 mg cholesterol, 379 mg sodium, 4 g fiber.

From "The Fog City Diner Cookbook."

Sibella Kraus writing in the San Francisco Chronicle, 10/27/93.

Posted by Stephen Ceideburg

