Title: GUVEC OR TURLU - VEGETABLE CASSEROLE
Categories: Turkish, Ethnic, Vegetables, Vegetarian
Yield: 6 Servings
2    Long eggplants; -OR-
1 md -Oval eggplant
Salt
4 sm Zucchini
3 sm Sweet green peppers
250 g  Okra; optional
250 g  Green beans
4 sm Tomatoes, ripe, peeled
1/2 c  Olive oil
3 sm Onions; sliced
2    Garlic cloves; crushed
1/4 c  Chopped parsley
Freshly ground black pepper
1/2 c  -Water
There is some confusion about the name of this dish. To the Turks,
Turlu is a lamb or chicken and vegetable casserole. Yet in other
countries of the region Turlu is prepared as an all-vegetable
casserole, with cooks admitting to it being a Turkish dish.  Guvec on
the other hand is a casserole of meat or poultry and vegetables, or
vegetables on their own.

Oven temperature: 180 C (350 F) Cooking time: 1-1/2 to
2    hours

Remove stem from eggplant, wash well then peel off 1 cm (1/2 inch)
strips of skin lengthwise at intervals giving a striped effect. Cut
long eggplants in 1 cm (1/2 inch) slices; oval eggplant should be
quartered lengthwise, then cut into chunky pieces.  Spread eggplant
on a tray and sprinkle liberally with salt. Leave for 30 minutes,
then pat dry with paper towels.

Trim zucchini and cut into 4 cm (1-1/2 inch) pieces. Remove stem and
seeds from peppers and quarter.  Wash, trim and (if desired) de-fuzz
okra. Soak in vinegar to remove slime. Drain.

String beans if necessary and slit in half (French cut). Slice
tomatoes.

Heat half the oil in a frying pan and fry eggplant until lightly
browned. Remove to a plate - do not drain.

Add remaining oil to a pan, add sliced onions and fry gently until
transparent.  Stir in garlic, cook 1 minute, then remove pan from
heat.

Place a layer of eggplant in the base of a casserole dish. Top with
some of the zucchini, peppers and beans. Spread some onion mixture on
top and cover with tomato slices.  Sprinkle with salt, pepper and
some of the parsley. Repeat until all ingredients are used, reserving
some tomato slices and parsley.

Place prepared okra on top if used and cover with last of tomato.
Sprinkle with parsley, salt and pepper and add water and oil drained
from eggplant.

Cover casserole and cook in a moderate oven for 1 to 1-1/2 hours until
vegetables are tender.  Serve from casserole as an accompaniment to
roast or grilled meats or poultry. Often this is served as a light
meal on its own; bread and peynir (feta) cheese are then served with
it.

Source: The Complete Middle East Cookbook - by Tess Mallos
ISBN: 1 86302 069 1
:

