Title: HAGGIS
Categories: Meats
Yield: 10 Servings
1    Plastic baking bag;-OR-
1    -Sheep's stomach*,thoroughly
-cleaned
-OR-
1    -large sausage casing
1    Sheep liver,heart,& lights
-(lungs)
1/2 lb Beef Suet
1    Onion, large;*
1 tb -Salt
1/2 ts Black pepper;freshly ground*
1/2 ts Cayenne
1/2 ts Allspice
1 lb Oatmeal; old fashioned, slow
-cooking type
1 c  Broth; in which liver, heart
-were cooked; up to 1 1/2c
This recipe make enough to serve 6-10. If you are able to find a
sheep's stomach, double the amounts. Rinse and repeat till clean.
*Anne's note, I would increase both the pepper & onion; most of the
haggis I've eaten makes liberal use of these ingredients If the
butcher has not trimmed the heart, liver and lungs do that first.
(Cut the heart open to rinse it so it may cook more quickly.) Put
them in a large pot with 1 to 1/2 cups water, bring to a boil and
simmer for about an hour and a half. Let it all cool and keep the
broth. Run the liver and heart through the meat grinder. Take the
lungs (lights) and cut out as much grisly part as you can and run
them through a grinder too. Next put the raw beef suet through the
grinder. As you finish grinding each thing, put it in the big pot.
Peel, slice and chop onions and then add them to the meat in the
kettle. Add the salt and spices and mix. Toast or brown oatmeal
lightly in heavy bottomed pan on top of the stove. Add to pot and mix
thoroughly. Add 1 to 1/2 cup broth left from boiling the meat. Check
if it sticks together when you grab a handful of the mixture. If not,
add more broth so that it holds together. Stuff in plastic baking bag
till about 3/4 full. If you are using a sheep stomach, have the
smooth side out and stuff it about 3/4 full and sew up the opening.
Wrap in cheesecloth so that when it is cooked, you can handle it.
Prick with a skewer (so it won't explode from the steam). (You may
wish to do this occasionally early on when cooking). Fill large pot
with at least 1 gallon of water and bring to a boil. Boil gently for
4 to 5 hours. Serve with neeps (turnips) or clapshot (mashed turnips
& potatoes) SERVES:6-10

