Title: HALEKULANI COCONUT CAKE
Categories: Cakes, Desserts
Yield: 10 Servings
1 1/4 c  Cake flour
1 c  Sugar
1 1/2 ts Baking powder
1/4 c  Salad oil
1/4 c  Water
5    Large eggs
2 ts Vanilla
1/4 ts Cream of tartar
1 c  Milk
3 1/2 c  Coconut,shredded
1 c  Whipping cream
MMMMM----------------------RASPBERRY COULIS---------------------------
1 qt Raspberries
1 tb Sugar
1. FOR CAKE. Sift flour; measure 1 cup plus 2 tablespoons. Sift again
with 1/3 cup sugar and baking powder into a large bowl. In another
bowl, whisk oil, water, 1 egg, and 1 teaspoon vanilla; add to flour
mixture and whisk until smooth.
2. Separate remaining 4 eggs; put yolks in a small bowl. In a clean
bowl, beat egg whites and cream tartar with a mixer until foamy.
Gradually add 1/4 c sugar, beating until whites hold firm, moist
peaks. Gently fold whites into flour mixture.
3. Spread batter in an ungreased 9" cheesecake pan (at least 2 1/2"
deep) with a removeable rim. Bake in a 350'F. oven until cake springs
back when lightly touched in center, about 30 minutes. Run a knife
between cake and rim; invert cake onto rack. Remove rim; slide a
spatula along pan bottom and remove. Let cool; if made ahead, store
airtight up to 1 day.
4. FOR PASTRY CREAM. In a 1 1/2 to 2 quart pan, mix 1/3 cup sugar and
1 1/2 tablespoons flour. Whisk in milk. Stir over medium-high heat
until boiling, 4-6 minutes. Whisk about 1/2 cup hot mixture into
yolks. Stir yolk mixture into pan; whisk over medium-low heat until
slightly thicker, 30-90 seconds. Stir in 1 1/2 cups coconut and 1
teaspoon vanilla. Let cool, stirring often. Cover and chill until
cold, at least 2 hours or up to 1 day.
5. TO ASSEMBLE CAKE. With a long serrated knife, cut cake
horizontally into 3 equal layers.
6. In a bowl, whip cream with 2 tablespoons sugar until thick enough
to hold its shape; fold 3/4 cup into pastry cream. Chill remainder.
7. Invert cake onto a platter. Slide rimless baking sheets under each
of the 2 layers and lift off. Tuck wide strips of waxed paper just
under bottom edge of cake. Spread layer almost to edge with half the
pastry cream. Slide middle layer onto filling; spread with remaining
filling. Slide last layer onto filling. Frost cake with remaining
whipped cream. Pat remaining coconut into cream. Cover gently; chill
2 hours or until next day.
8. Ease out waxed paper and discard. Pour raspberry coulis equally
onto dessert plates; top with cake wedges.

*** RASPBERRY COULIS ***
In a blender, whirl raspberries. Rub through a fine strainer into a
bowl; discard seeds. Add sugar. If made ahead, chill airtight up to 1
day; stir to use.

