Title: HALIBUT STEAKS MARENGO
Categories: Fish
Yield: 4 Servings
1/2 lb Small mushrooms
1 1/2 c  Fish stock
1/2 c  Greek pitted olives (black)
4    Halibut steaks, cut into
-3/4" thick slices
Milk
Salt
Freshly ground white pepper
Flour for dredging
4 tb Sweet butter
4 tb Olive oil
3 tb Finely minced shallots
6 lg Tomatoes, peeled, seeded &
-finely chopped
1    Bouquet Garni*
1 ts Oregano
2 tb Tomato paste
3/4 lb Small mushrooms
1    Beurre Manie**
Freshly ground black pepper
MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
2 tb Finely minced parsley
1 ts Finely minced fresh garlic
1 ts Finely grated lemon rind
MMMMM--------------------------OPTIONAL-------------------------------
12    New potatoes, cooked &
-buttered
* BOUQUET GARNI - In a piece of cheesecloth, tie the following: 3 to 4
sprigs of parsley, 1 bay leaf, 1/2 celery stalk with leaves, 1/2 t dry
thyme.  Leave the string long enough to hang the garni in the pot and
tie the string to the pot handle for easy removal. ** Beurre Manie is
used to thicken sauces.  Combine 1 T flour and 1 T sweet butter on a
small flat plate and blend the mixture with a fork into a very smooth
paste. Roll the paste into a ball. Wipe the mushrooms with damp paper
towels. Remove the stems and add them to the fish stock. Heat the
stock, simmer it for 15 minutes and reserve.  Poach the olives in
boiling water over low heat for 5 minutes.  Drain on paper towels and
set aside. Dip the halibut steaks into milk for 2 or 3 minutes. Dry
them with paper towels. Season the fish steaks with salt and pepper
and lightly dredge them in flour, shaking off the excess. In a large
skillet melt the butter and 2 T of oil. Add the fish steaks and brown
them well on one side. Turn them carefully with a large spatula and
brown them on the other side. Carefully remove the fish to a side
dish. To the fat remaining in the pan add the shallots. Cook over low
heat until they are soft but not browned. Add the tomatoes, salt,
pepper, Bouquet Garni and oregano. Bring the mixture to a boil and
add tomato paste and the fish stock. Return the fish steaks to the
skillet. Cover it tightly and simmer on top of the stove for 20 to 25
minutes, or until the fish flakes easily. Carefully remove the steaks
to a serving platter. While the fish steaks are cooking, heat
remaining oil in a skillet. Add the mushrooms and cook them over high
heat until they are nicely browned. Do not overcook. Remove the
skillet from the heat and reserve. When the fish steaks are done,
remove them carefully to a serving platter. Strain the sauce,
pressing down well on the tomato pulp to extract all the juice.
Return the sauce to the pan and reduce it by 1/3 over high heat. Add
a Beurre Manie, a little at a time, whisking constantly until the
sauce heavily coats a spoon.  Add the mushrooms and olives, salt and
black pepper.  Remove the sauce from the heat. Remove any accumulated
juices around the fish steaks with paper towels. Pour the sauce over
the fish steaks, and keep them warm until serving time. Combine the
parsley, garlic and lemon rind and sprinkle the mixture over the fish
steaks just before serving.  Serve the fish steaks with the optional
buttered new potatoes.

