Title: HAM~ CHEESE~ & HERB BAGUETTE
Categories: France, Bread/rolls, Cheese/eggs
Yield: 8 Servings
1 1/2 tb Active dry yeast
1 1/2 c  Warm water
1 tb Honey
4 c  (approx.) unbleached white
-flour
1/2 ts Salt (optional)
4 tb Olive oil
1 1/2 c  Cubed ham or pork
1/2 c  Freshly grated Parmesan
-cheese
2 ts Chopped fresh rosemary OR 1
-tsp crumbled dried
2 ts Chopped fresh thyme OR 1 tsp
-crumbled dried
2 ts Chopped fresh sage OR 1 tsp
-crumbled dried
...This French style loaf can be made from start to finish in a
little over an hour.  It's a hearty loaf that is delicious sliced and
lightly toasted and served with soups, stews, and salads...

generous grinding of black pepper

1.  Place the yeast in a large mixing bowl.  Mix in the warm water and
honey and set aside in a warm spot for about 10 minutes, or until the
yeast is dissolved and begins bubbling. (If the yeast does not bubble
it is probably dead. Begin again, using fresh yeast.) Gradually sift
the flour and salt into the yeast mixture, stirring constantly until
the dough begins to pull away from the sides of the bowl.

2.  Sprinkle some flour over a working surface and gently knead the
dough for several minutes.  Cut the dough in half and roll out one
half into a rectangle (like a rectangular pizza) about 14 inches by
10 inches. Brush the dough with 1 1/2 tablespoons of the olive oil.
Scatter half the ham over the surface, pressing it gently into the
dough.. Sprinkle half the cheese on top and scatter half the herbs
and a generous grinding of fresh black pepper over the dough. Using
your hands, gently roll the dough lengthwise, into the shape of a
long cigar. Lightly seal the edges of the dough.  Place in a
well-greased French bread pan (or on a well-greased cookie sheet) and
cover with a clean tea towel.

3.  Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F.

4.  Make the second loaf.  Place the two loaves of bread in a dry
warm spot and let the sit, covered, for
15    minutes.

5.  Just before baking, lightly brush the loaves with the remaining 1
tablespoon of olive oil.  Place in the middle shelf of the hot oven
and bake 20 to 25 minutes, or until the bread has a golden brown
crust and sounds hollow when tapped on the bottom.

Serves 8.  Makes 2 loaves.

From:  LEFTOVERS by Kathy Gunst, Harper Perennial, New York. 1991.
ISBN 0-06-096863-X Shared by: Karin Brewer, Cooking Echo, 5/93

