Title: HANOI BEEF & RICE-NOODEL SOUP (PHO BAC)
Categories: Vietnamese, Beef, Ceideburg 2
Yield: 1 Servings
5 lb Beef bones with marrow
5 lb Oxtails
2 lb Short rib plate, or 1 lb
-flank steak
2 lg Onions, unpeeled, halved
-and studded with 8 whole
-cloves
3    Shallots, unpeeled
2 oz Fresh ginger root, unpeeled
-in one piece
8    Star anise
1    Cinnamon stick
4 md Parsnips, cut into 2-inch
-chunks
2 ts Salt
1 lb Beef sirloin
2    Scallions, thinly sliced
1 tb Shredded coriander
2 md Onions, sliced paper-thin
1/4 c  Hot chili sauce (tuong ot
-or sriracha sauce)
1 lb 1/4-inch-wide dried rice
-sticks (banh pho)
1/2 c  Nuoc mam (Vietnamese fish
-sauce)
Freshly ground black pepper
MMMMM-----------------------ACCOMPANIMENTS----------------------------
2 c  Fresh bean sprouts
2    Fresh red chile peppers,
-sliced
2    Limes, cut into wedges
1 bn Of fresh mint, separated
-into leaves
1 bn Fresh Asian basil *
* or regular fresh basil,
-separated into leaves
"This sublime recipe comes from my mother, a native of Hanoi. She
always made the beef stock in large quantities++enough for at least 3
meals++and froze it in batches until needed."

In order to cut the beef into paper-thin slices, freeze the pieces of
meat for 30 minutes before slicing.

The night before, clean the bones under cold running water and soak
overnight in a pot with water to cover at room temperature. (This
will help loosen the impurities inside the bones. When heat is
applied, these impurities are released and come to the top much
faster and can be removed, therefore, producing a clear broth.)

Place the beef bones, oxtails and short rib plate in a large
stockpot. Add water to cover and bring to a boil. Cook for 10
minutes. Drain. Rinse the pot and the bones.

Return the bones to the pot and add 6 quarts of water. Bring to a
boil. Skim the surface to remove the foam and fat. Stir the bones in
the bottom of the pot from time to time to free the impurities.
Continue skimming until the foam ceases to rise.  Add 3 quarts more
water and bring to a boil.  Skim off all the residue that forms on
the top. Turn the heat to low and simmer.

Meanwhile, char the clove-studded onions, shallots and ginger
directly over a gas burner or under the broiler until they release
their fragrant odors. Tie the charred vegetables, star anise and
cinnamon stick in a double thickness of dampened cheesecloth.  Add
the spice bag, parsnips and salt to the simmering broth. Simmer for 1
hour.

Remove the short rib plates.  Pull the meat away from the bones.
Reserve the meat and return the bones to the pot. Simmer the broth,
uncovered, for 4 to 5 hours. Keep an eye on it; as the liquid boils
away, add enough fresh water to cover the bones.

Meanwhile, slice the beef sirloin against the grain into paper-thin
slices, roughly 2 by 2-inches in size. Slice the reserved short rib
meat paper-thin.  Set aside.

In a small bowl, combine the scallions, coriander and half of the
slice onions.  Place the remaining sliced onions in a small bowl and
stir in the hot chili sauce. Blend well.

Soak the rice sticks in warm water for 30 minutes. Drain and set
aside.

When the broth is ready, remove and discard all of the bones. Strain
the broth through a strainer or colander lined with a double layer of
dampened cheesecloth into a clean pot. Add the fish sauce and bring
the broth to a boil.  Reduce the heat and keep the broth at a bare
simmer. In another pot, bring 4 quarts of water to a boil. Drain the
noodles, then drop them in the boiling water. Drain immediately.
Divide the noodles among 4 large soup bowls.  Top the noodles with
the sliced meats. bring the broth to a rolling boil.  Ladle the broth
directly over the meat in each bowl (the boiling broth will cook the
raw beef instantly). Garnish with the scallion mixture and freshly
ground black pepper. Serve the onions in hot chili sauce and the
accompaniments on the side. Each diner will add these ingredients as
desired. Yield: 4 servings.

