Title: HARBOR VILLAGE BBQ PORK
Categories: Chinese, Pork, Ceideburg 2
Yield: 2 Servings
1    Boston pork butt (about 3
-1/4 pounds)
1/4 c  Harbor Village Chef's BBQ
-Marinade
1 1/4 c  Sugar
1 tb Salt
2 ts Mui Gwe Lo rice wine
1/3 c  Light soy sauce
1 ts Five-spice powder
1 c  Water (for roasting pan)
Glazing Sauce
MMMMM------------------------BBQ MARINADE-----------------------------
2/3 c  Cooking oil
8    Garlic cloves, peeled and
-minced
1 3/4 c  Hoisin sauce
1 3/4 c  Ground bean sauce
1 1/4 c  Sugar
1/2 c  "nam yu" (red bean curd
-"cheese")
1/2 c  Sesame seed paste
MMMMM-----------------------GLAZING SAUCE----------------------------
17 1/2 oz Container of maltose sugar
1/4 c  Hot water
2 ts Mui Gwe Lo rice wine
Ran across this in the SF paper the other day and, on reading the
ingredients, knew immediately that this is one for you. In the
article that accompanied the recipe the author talks about a Chinese
BBQ oven that the chef who originated this recipe uses.  It's made
out of stainless steel, five feet tall with a 180,000 BTU burner in
it! This is something I really need for my kitchen. This looks like a
full-on, no- nonsense Chinese BBQ.

Most master chefs seldom reveal all their kitchen secrets, but Derun
Yu shared this recipe for a barbecued pork marinade, adapted for the
home oven. Armed with a Chinese rice bowl, he assembled the
ingredients, then poured them into a scale so we would have precise
measurements.

Versatile Chinese barbecued pork is the "ham" of Chinese cooking. It
may be sliced and served as an appetizer or entree, or like a
sandwich, cubed and stuffed in bread dough and steamed into pork
buns. It's good stir- fried with vegetables, tossed with noodles or
cooked with scrambled eggs.

Prepare the marinade:  Heat the oil in a wok or saucepan over
medium-high heat.  Add the garlic and gently fry just until it floats
to the surface and is golden brown (about 2 minutes). Quickly remove
the garlic and discard.  Pour the garlic oil into a large mixing
bowl, let cool.

Stir in remaining ingredients with the garlic oil into a smooth
sauce. Pour into a glass jar. cool.  If the marinade is covered with
1/8 inch cooking oil, it will keep in the refrigerator for several
months.

Yields 5 cups.

Then combine the sugar, salt, rice wine, soy sauce, Barbecue Marinade
and five-spice powder in a large mixing bowl; mix well. Add the pork
butt and marinate for about 30 minutes (when using spareribs,
marinate for 1 hour).

Preheat oven to 500F.  Pour the water into a 10 X 14-inch roasting
pan. Place the roasting rack in the pan (the rack should not touch
the water). Remove the meat slices from the marinade and place on the
rack; reserve the marinade.  Roast for 8 minutes, turn over and roast
the other side for 8 minutes longer.  Reduce the oven temperature to
300F. Brush the pork with the reserved marinade; roast for an
additional 20 minutes on each side. Remove from the oven and let cool
for 5 minutes.

Slice the pork butt into 1/4-inch slices.

Prepare the glazing sauce:  To soften maltose sugar, place the
container (uncovered) in a microwave oven at high setting for 1
minute. Transfer the softened maltose into a double boiler with the
water and rice wine; stir until the glaze is well mixed.  Keep the
sauce warm until ready to use.

Makes 2 cups.

Then spoon a few tablespoons of the glaze over pork before serving.
NOTE: Hoisin sauce, ground bean sauce, nam yu, maltose sugar and
sesame seed paste are available in Chinese markets.

Joyce Jue. San Francisco Chronicle, 8/19/92.

Posted by Stephen Ceideberg; August 25 1992.

