
Well, the folks are gone and I never took the time to gather any recipes
so I can't really put together any "old favorites", but wandering through
the collection here I'd have to say this would make a pretty durn good
sit down for a few folks.  Don't know how you'd deal with the dual stuffings
though ...
---------- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.01
Title: BEGGARS' PURSES - GGhol
Categories: Appetizers, Kump
Yield: 6 servings
-----------------------------------CREPES-----------------------------------
1 1/2 c  Milk
4    Eggs
3 3/4 oz Pastry flour -=OR=-
3 oz - All-purpose flour -AND-
3/4 oz - Cake flour
1 pn Salt
1/2 oz Melted butter
----------------------------------FILLING----------------------------------
Chives; blanched
Caviar
Sour cream
-(or creme fraiche)
Butter; melted
COMBINE ALL INGREDIENTS for the crepes, except the butter. Whisk well and
pass through a fine strainer. Let rest 1 hour. Add butter before cooking
the crepes. Cook the crepes and be careful not to brown them. Lay the crepe
out on a piece of parchment or a clean towel (don't lay out more than 12 at
a time or they will dry out). Fill with a spoonful of caviar and sour
cream. Pull the edges of the crepes up to form small purses and tie with a
chive. Serve warm or at room temperature, lightly brushed with butter.
These crepes can also be rolled or folded in the more traditional manner if
forming the purses seems like a daunting task. The result is beautiful,
however, and worth the extra effort.

This elegant recipe comes from Katherine Alford, chief instructor at the
New York Cooking School. Katherine used to be the chef at the Quilted
Giraffe in New York. These crepes are a signature dish of that restaurant.

PETER KUMP - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
-----
---------- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.01
Title: CAMPBELL SOUP - DILL SPIKED ONION ROLLS - GGhol
Categories: Breads, Soups
Yield: 16 rolls
2 pk 16-19 oz each hot roll mix
1 cn Cream of onion soup
2 md Eggs, slightly beaten
1/2 c  Grated parmesan cheese
1 tb Dried dill weed
In large bowl, dissolve yeast from both boxes of mix as directed using only
1/4 cup water. Follow mix directions adding undiluted soup, eggs, cheese
and dill with flour mixture. Let rise as directed. Shape dough into 16
large rolls or 32 small rolls. Place on lightly greased cookie sheets; let
rise again until doubled. Bake at 375 degrees for 20 minutes or until
brown.

Recipe posted by: Jane Knox
-----
---------- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.01
Title: FRESH BREAD STUFFING - GGhol
Categories: Stuffing, Breads, Bacon
Yield: 999 servings
1    Long loaf fresh bread,
-or two regular size loaves
1    Large onion
1 lb Bacon, diced and cooked
4    To 5 stalks celery, diced
3    To 4 eggs
1/4 c  Soft butter (not margarine)
Water to moisten
Poultry seasoning to taste
1/4 ts Sweet basil
2 tb Dried of fresh chopped
-parsley
1 ts Garlic powder
1/8 ts Cayenne
1/8 ts Oregano
Black pepper to taste
Break up bread into bite sized chunks into large bowl.  Diced and cook
bacon until not quite crisp, saving bacon grease. Chop onion and celery and
add to stuffing mixture.  Add bacon and pour grease over top of mixture.
Add eggs, spices, butter and mix together.  Use a bit of warm water as
needed in order to bind the mixture together until it holds its own shape.

Rinse turkey and salt the inside.  Loosely pack the inside of turkey with
stuffing. Dry off the outside of the turkey by blotting it with paper
towels. Use additional butter to lightly coat the outside and top of bird,
lightly salt and pepper, and then cook according to directions. (20 per lb)

If you are lucky enough to have stuffing left over, shape into balls to
place beside the turkey when it has about 1-1/2 hours left to bake.

Origin: Adapted from my Mom's recipe. (Shirley Whittaker) Shared by: Sharon
Stevens
-----
---------- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.01
Title: DRUNKEN TURKEY - GGhol
Categories: Poultry, Holidays
Yield: 8 servings
12 lb Turkey
2 lb Mixed dried fruit
1 c  Golden raisins
4 ea Granny Smith apples,
4 ea Oranges, juice from
1 cn (92.5 oz) chiles chipotles
3 c  Tequila
3 c  Grand Marnier
2 ea Sticks unsalted butter
-cut into 1-inch wedges
Preheat oven to 325~F. Rinse turkey and pat dry inside and out. Set aside.
Combine dried fruit, raisins, and apples in a medium-size bowl. Put orange
juice and chiles (with sauce that clings to them) into a blender or food
processor and process for 1 minute. Add 1 cup each of tequila and Grand
Marnier, then pour the mixture over the fruit and let rest 15 minutes.
Drain the fruit, reserving the liquid. Cut half the butter into 1/2-inch
pieces and combine with the fruit. Stuff cavity of the turkey with most of
the fruit. Place the turkey in a roasting bag, arrange remaining fruit on
top of the bird and pour reserved orange juice-liquor mix over it. Combine
remaining tequila and Grand Marnier. Have ready a basting syringe fitted
with a metal injection nozzle and inject the mixture all over the turkey.
Melt remaining butter and carefully pour over the turkey in the roasting
bag. Seal bag and cut 1/4-inch slit on the top to let steam escape. Place
in a roasting pan and roast for 2 1/2 hours. Every 30 minutes open bag
(being careful to shield your face from steam) and inject more liquor,
eventually using it up. When ready to serve, slit open bag, arrange turkey
on a platter, and scoop out the fruit stuffing. Place all the fruit in a
serving bowl. Strain the juices that have accumulated in the bag, skim off
any fat, and serve in a gravy boat. Serves 8 to 10
-----
---------- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.01
Title: BAKED CRANBERRY SQUASH - GGhol
Categories: Vegan, Vegetables, Main dish
Yield: 4 servings
2 lg Acorn squash, split length-
Wise and seeded
1 c  Chopped pear
1/2 c  Raw cranberries (fresh or
Frozen)
3 tb Undiluted orange juice
Concentrate
3 tb Honey or Maple Syrup
1 1/2 ts Ground cinnamon
1/2 ts Ground allspice
Preheat oven to 400 degrees. Place squash cut side up on foil-lined baking
sheet. In a large bowl, combine pear, cranerries, orange juice concentrate,
honey or syrup, cinnamon and allspice. Spoon mixture into squash cavities.
Use any extra liquid to brush cut edges of squash. Bake 45 minutes to 1
hour, or until squash is soft. Serve hot. Serves 4. Per Serving: 126
calories; 3 g. protein; .5 g. fat; 4 mg carbohydrate; 0 cholesterol; 4 mg.
sodium, 7 g. fiber From _Vegetarian Times_, November, 1992
-----
---------- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.01
Title: BAKED CHEESE STUFFED POTATOES - GGhol
Categories: Vegetables, Side dish, Cheese/eggs
Yield: 4 servings
4    Large potatoes
2 tb Hot heavy cream
3 tb Grated cheddar
2 1/2 tb Butter
1    Well beaten eggs
1/2 ts Salt
Scrub and dry potatoes, then bake 45 min. at 425 degrees. Cut off tops
lengthwise and scoop out middles. Mash with the salt, butter, cheese, cream
and egg. Beat until fluffy and replace in shells. Bursh tops with more
melted butter. Return to oven and bake 10 min. longer, until the tops are
delicately browned.  Serves 4

Recipe posted by: Debbie Carlson
-----
---------- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.01
Title: ASPARAGUS WITH BLUE CHEESE - GGhol
Categories: Vegetables
Yield: 4 servings
1 lb Asparagus; cleaned
2 ts Red wine vinegar
2 tb Olive oil
2 tb Chives; minced
4 tb Blue cheese; crumbled
White pepper; freshly ground
Snap ends off asparagus spears.  Fill medium skillet with 1-inch water and
bring to a boil.  Add asparagus in single layer and cook 8 to 10 minutes or
until tender. Drain well and arrange on a serving plate. Stir together
vinegar and oil in sm bowl.  Add blue cheese and chives and mix well. Pour
over hot asparagus. Season to taste with plenty of white pepper. Set aside
until tepid, then serve.

Hint on cleaning asparagus:  Hold the bottom end of the stem in one hand
and gently bend the stalk with the other. The stalk will break where it is
tender, thus giving you a piece of asparagus that is entirely edible. With
a little practice you will know exactly where to break the vegetable. Save
the broken-off ends for soups. Slice and add to soup stock, then drain and
discard the coarse stalks before serving.

By Jeff Smith   The Frugal Gourmet From the 10/02/1991 issue - The
Springfield Union-News Recipe posted by: Dan Ceppa
-----
---------- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.01
Title: DAKOTA PRAIRIE PUMPKIN PIE - GGhol
Categories: Pies, Desserts
Yield: 3 servings
4 c  Pumpkin puree
4 c  Sugar
1 ts Salt
2 ts Cinnamon
1 ts Nutmeg
6 ea Eggs, lightly beaten
4 c  Milk
1 c  Light cream
1 tb Vanilla
Pastry for 3 9-inch pie
-shells
Whipped cream & chopped nuts
-for garnish
Combine pumpkin, sugar, salt, cinnamon and nutmeg.  Blend in eggs, milk,
cream and vanilla.  Pour into pie shells and bake at 400F for 50 minutes,
or until firm.  Cool on a rack.  Garnish with whipped cream and chopped
walnuts.

Source: The Harrowsmith Cookbook Volume Three
-----
---------- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.01
Title: AMARETTO COFFEE - GGhol
Categories: Beverages
Yield: 2 servings
1 1/2 c  Warm water
1/3 c  Amaretto
1 tb Instant coffee crystals
Dessert topping
Dessert topping should be in a pressurized can. In a 2-cup measure stir
together water and instant coffee crystals. Micro-cook, uncovered, on 100%
power for about 4 minutes or just till steaming hot. Stir in Amaretto.
Serve in mugs.  Top each mug of coffee mixture with some dessert topping.
-----Title: Fried Fish with Puerto Rican Sauce (Mojo Isle¤o) - RL
Categories: main dish, fish, sauces
Yield: 12 servings
-----Sauce (A)===========================
1/2 C  olive oil
2 1/2 lb onions, peeled and sliced
1 1/2 C  water
24    stuffed olives with
-pimientos
2 T  capers
1 cn 4 oz pimientos, cut in tiny
-slices in their juice
2 cn (8 oz) tomato sauce
2 T  vinegar
1 T  salt
2    bay leaves
-----The Rest (B)========================
4 lb fish slices 1 inch thick
-white meat fish "Chillo"
2 T  salt
1 C  olive oil
4 lg cloves garlic, peeled and
-crushed
Let's start with some fish (this is a normal all year around recipe.):
1.   Prepare sauce by mixing ingredients (A) and cooking over
modearte heat about 1 hour.
2.  When sauce is nearly done, season fish with salt included in B
and slightly cover with flour and fry as follows:
Put oil and garlic into a frying pan.  Brown garlic over moderate heat.
Remove garlic and place in the pan as many slices of fish fit on it.
Brown at moderate heat on both sides, reduce heat to low and cook for 15
minutes or until fish flakes easily when tested with fork  Fry remaining
fish the same way.
3.  Place fish in a mold and cover with hot sauce and let it stand
for 5 minutes.
Ricardo Landrau, Carolina PR, Fidonet 1:367/28
