
Hi there, here are some of my holiday favorites, when calories and
fat grams DON'T count!!!
-Perry-
Gingered Sweet Potatoes with Crispy Walnut Crust
Acorn Squash and Wild Rice
Potatoes Anna
Baked Onions with Sour Cream
Baked Stuffed Eggplant Mike Elia
Steamed Orange-Spinach
Roasted Herb Barley
Pumpkin Pecan Bread
Cranberry-Orange Relish
Favorite Gingerbread
Perry Lowell's contributions were converted from Qbook to MM format by
MMMenu and then corrected where needed by <gg>Title: Gingered Sweet Potatos with Crispy Walnut Crust - PLhol
Categories: Sweet Potato, Ginger, Walnuts
Servings: 1
3 lg sweet potatoes
1 c  granulated sugar
2 ea eggs, lightly beaten
10 T  (1-1/4 sticks) butter
1/2 t  ground ginger
1 1/2 t  grated orange rind
1/4 t  salt
1/4 t  freshly ground pepper
1 T  finely minced crystallized
-ginger
1/4 c  all-purpose flour
1/2 c  English walnuts
1/2 c  black walnuts
Bake the potatoes at 425 degrees (F) for 1 hour, then turn the heat down
3/4 c  dark brown sugar
to 350 (F) [see Note].  Scoop out the potato flesh and place in the bowl
of a food processor;  puree until smooth.  In a large mixer bowl,
combine the sweet potato puree, granulated sugar, eggs, 4 Tablespoons of
the butter, orange rind, ground ginger, salt, pepper, and crystallized
ginger.  Blend well and spread in a greased 13x9-inch flat baking dish.
In a small bowl, combine the flour, nuts, remaining 6 Tablespoons of
butter and the brown sugar.  Sprinkle ovver the potato mixture and bake
for 1 hour, or until the top is browned and puffs slightly.
[Note:  If using a glass dish, reduce baking temperature to 350 degrees
(F).]
From Heartland, by Marcia Adams, ISBN 0-517-57533-7, 1991
-----Title: Acorn Squash and Wild Rice - PLhol
Categories: Squash, Rice
Servings: 4
2    acorn squash, ~1-1/2 lb ea
1/2 lb small Brussels sprouts
2 t  olive oil
1 c  diced onion
1 t  fennel seeds
1 t  dried marjoram
1/4 c  minced fresh sage
1/4 c  fresh orange juice
2 t  fresh lemon juice
1/8 t  freshly grated pepper
2 c  cooked wild rice
1.  Preheat the oven to 350 degrees (F).
2.  Cut each squash in half and remove the seeds and pulp.  In a large
baking dish, place the squash, cut side down, with about 1 inch of
water.  Bake until tender, about 45 minutes.
3.  Pour about 2 inches of water into a large stockpot.  Place a
collapsible steamer in the pot, cover, and bring to a boil.  Place the
Brussels sprouts in the steamer, cover, and steam for 5 to 7 minutes, or
until tender.  Set aside.
4.  Meanwhile, in a large skillet, heat the oil over low heat.  Add the
onion and saute for 10 minutes, stirring frequently.  Stir in the
fennel, marjoram, sage, orange juice, lemon juice, and pepper, and
simmer for 3 minutes.  Stir in the cooked wild rice and the Brussels
sprouts and heat through.
5.  Spoon the wild rice and Brussels sprout mixture into the squash
cavities.  Serve immediately.
I often microwave the acorn squash by placing in a shallow glass pan
with about 1/2-inch of water, covering with saran wrap and nuking for
about 10 minutes or until tender.
from Great Good Food, by Julee Rosso, 1993, ISBN 0-517-88122-5
-----Title: Potatoes Anna - PLhol
Categories: Potato, Rosemary
Servings: 8
2 t  olive oil
2 t  unsalted butter
3 lb new potatoes, peeled and
-thinly sliced
1/2 c  chopped fresh Italian
-parsley (flat leaf)
1/4 c  finely minced fresh rosemary
salt and freshly ground
-pepper
3/4 c  chicken broth (I use
-vegetable broth)
1. Preheat the oven to 425 degrees (F).
2. Lightly spray or wipe a 10-inch cast-iron skillet with vegetable oil
and place it in the oven;  heat the skillet for 20 minutes.  Carefully
remove the skillet and place it on a burner over high heat.  If
necessary, wipe out any burned oil with a paper towel.  Heat the olive
oil and butter in the skillet and swirl in the pan to coat it evenly.
Overlap the potato slices, beginning in the center of the pan and
continuing up the sides.  Working quickly, layer in all the potatoes,
seasoning with parsley, rosemary, salt, and plenty of freshly ground
pepper between the layers.  Pour the broth over the potatoes.  Lightly
spray or wipe the outside and bottom of a 9-inch cake pan with vegetable
oil and place it on the potatoes.  Weight the cake pan with pie weights
or beans.
3.  Return the pan to the oven and bake for 1 hour, or until the
potatoes are tender.  Run a metal spatula around the edge of the
skillet.  Invert the potato cake onto a platter, cut it into eight
wedges, and serve immediately.
Info:  from Great Good Food, by Julee Rosso, 1993, ISBN 0-517-88122-5
-----Title: Baked Onions with Sour Cream - PLhol
Categories: Onions, Sour Cream
Servings: 4
4    Bermuda or Vidalia onions,
-3" dia
1/4 c  (1/2 stick) butter,
-at room temperature
1/4 c  sour cream, room temperature
1 T  brown sugar
1 T  lemon juice
1 T  finely minced fresh parsley
1/4 t  salt
1/4 t  freshly ground black pepper
Preheat oven to 375 degrees (F).  Place the unpeeled onions in a
foil-lined shallow pan.  Bake, uncovered, for 1-1/2 hours.  Warm a
heatproof shallow serving dish.  When onions are tender, remove from
oven.  Spear each with a fork, snip or cut off both ends, and remove
skin.  Place the peeled onions in the warmed dish.  Immediately add the
butter and sour cream so they will melt from the heat of the onions.
Then add the rest of the ingredients and toss lightly to mix. [Note:
these will hold nicely in a warm oven for 1/2 - 1 hour.]
If you can't make this with real butter and sour cream, it really isn't
worth making.  When you do, this is absolute heaven!
from Cooking from Quilt Country, by Marcia Adams, 1989
ISBN 0-517-56813-6
-----Title: Baked Stuffed Eggplant Mike Elia - PLhol
Categories: Eggplant
Servings: 1
1 lg (1-1/4 pounds) eggplant
3 T  olive oil
1/2 c  chopped onion
1 c  fresh bread crumbs
1/4 c  Parmesan cheese
3 ea eggs, lightly beaten
2 T  minced parsley
1/4 t  salt
1/4 T  freshly ground black pepper
2 T  olive oil, plus 2 teaspoons
-for drizzling on top
1 lb canned plum tomatoes and
-juice
2 1/2 c  water
6 ea ounces (1 medium)
-all-purpose or Idaho potato
1 ea clove garlic, minced
1/4 t  oregano
1/4 t  salt
freshly ground black pepper
-to taste
1 1/2 T  Parmesan cheese
1. Do not peel the eggplant.  Slice off the green cap and cut the
eggplant in half lengthwise.  Use a sharp knife to score the meat into
1/2-inch cubes, leaving 1/2-inch rim around the edge.  Scoop out the
flesh with a spoon and coarsely chop it.
2.  Heat the olive oil in a large skillet.  Add the eggplant cubes and
the onion to the skillet and saute over low heat, stirring frequently,
until the eggplant is softened and lightly browned, about 8 to 10
minutes.  Remove the pan from the heat and stir in the bread crubms,
Parmesan cheese, eggs, and parsley.  Season with the salt and black
pepper.
3.  Preheat the oven to 350 degrees (F).
4.  Sprinkle the eggplant shells lightly with salt and pepper and divide
the stuffing between them. [The recipe may be made ahead up to this
point and wrapped and refrigerated for up to 3 hours.]
5.  To make the Potato-Tomato Sauce, coat the bottom of a 7-by-11 inch
baking dish with the 2 Tablespoons olive oil.  Pour the can of tomatoes
into the baking dish and cut them into quarters with a sharp knife or
the side of a spoon.  Add the water to the pan.  Peel the potato and cut
it into thin (no more than 1/4-inch thick) slices.  Stack the slices,
cut them into 1/4-inch strips, and cut the strips into small cubes.  Add
them to the tomato mixture in the baking dish, along with the garlic,
oregano, salt, and pepper.  Set the stuffed eggplant shells on top of
the tomato mixture.  Sprinkle the Parmesan cheese over the tops of the
eggplant and into the sauce, and spoon a few pieces of tomato from the
sauce onto the tops of the eggplant to help keep it moist.  Drizzle a
teaspoon or two of olive oil over the tops of the eggplant. 6.  Bake,
uncovered, in the preheated oven until the potatoes are tender and the
tops of the eggplant are lightly browned, about 1 to 1-1/4 hours.  The
sauce will reduce quite a bit as it cooks.  Cut each stuffed eggplant in
half, and serve one piece each with some sauce spooned over it.
from Sunday Suppers, by Melanie Barnard & Brooke Dojny 1988
ISBN 0-13-875832-8
-----Title: Steamed Orange-Spinach - PLhol
Categories: Spinach, Orange
Servings: 1
1 lb fresh spinach
3 T  orange rind
juice of 1/2 orange
1/4 c  pignoli (pine nuts) or
-chopped walnuts
Stem and wash spinach, shaking off excess water.  Place spinach, orange
rind, and orange juice in a large skillet or wok over high heat.  Toss
spinach until just tender.  Toss with pignoli.  Serve.
-----Title: Roasted Herb Barley - PLhol
Categories: Grains, Barley
Servings: 2
1 lg onion, minced
1/2 ea stick butter
1/2 lb fresh mushrooms, sliced
1 c  pearl barley
1 t  salt
3 c  chicken broth (I use
-vegetable)
1 t  thyme
1/2 t  marjoram
1/2 t  rosemary
1/4 t  sage
1/4 t  summer savory
Preheat oven to 350 deg (F)
In a large ovenproof pan, cook onion in butter for 3 to 5 minutes or
until soft.  Add mushrooms and cook for 3 minutes.  Stir in pearl
barley, salt, thyme, marjoram, crushed rosemary, sage, and summer
savory.  Saute over moderately high heat, stirring for 3 minutes to coat
barley.  Add hot broth and bring to a boil.  Bake covered for 55 minutes
in oven preheated to 350 degrees (F).
-----Title: Pumpkin Pecan Bread - PLhol
Categories: Bread, Pumpkin, Pecan
Servings: 1
3 1/2 c  flour
3 c  sugar
1 1/2 t  salt
4 ea eggs, beaten
2 c  canned pumpkin
2/3 c  water
2 t  baking soda
1 t  nutmeg
1 t  cinnamon
1 c  vegetable oil
1 c  chopped pecans or walnuts
1 c  raisins or chopped dates
Preheat oven to 350 degrees.
Sift together flour, sugar, salt, soda, and spices in a large bowl.  Add
beaten eggs, pumpkin, water, and oil;  mix until well blended.  Add nuts
and raisins or dates.  Pour into greased two 9-inch pans, three 8-inch
pans, or four 7-inch pans.  Bake at 350 degrees (F) for 10 minutes, then
at 325 degrees (F) for one hour for 9-inch, 50 minutes for 8-inch, or 45
minutes for 7-inch pans.
from Dave Maynard's Beginnings/Endings cookbook
recipe from Olga Connoni, Milford, MA
-----Title: Cranberry-Orange Relish - PLhol
Categories: Cranberry, Orange
Servings: 1
2 c  whole cranberries
2    seedless oranges with
-unblemished skins
1/2 c  sugar (adjust to taste)
In a food processor, grate the cranberries and oranges.  Add sugar to
taste.  Chill for at least 24 hours.  Serve cold.
This should be made at least a day ahead to "mellow".  It should be
sugared, but not to the point where the cranberries' tartness is
overwhelmed by the sweetness of the sugar.
-----Title: Favorite Gingerbread - PLhol
Categories: Gingerbread
Servings: 9
1/2 c  soft shortening
2 T  sugar
1 ea egg
1 c  dark New Orleans molasses
-(blackstrap)
1 c  boiling water
2 1/4 c  sifted Gold Medal flour
1 t  (baking) soda
1/2 t  salt
1 t  ginger
1 t  cinnamon
Preheat oven to 325 degrees F
Mix shortening, sugar, and egg together thoroughly.  Blend in molasses
and water.  Sift flour, soda, salt, and spices together and stir in,
beating until smooth.  Pour into well-greased and floured 9-inch square
pan.  Bake at 325 degrees (F) for 45 to 50 minutes.  Cut into 3-inch
squares in pan.  Keep hot and serve piping hot with sweetened whipped
cream or applesauce.
-----
By: Nancy Vaine, Pleasure Palace ]I[ (1:141/427)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
I don't think there's an appetizer in the world that will draw the
attention away from my grandfather's antipasto.  Of course, that
doesn't keep me from trying.  I think I'll try these this year ...
garlic is popular in my house, and we certainly don't need a
filling appetizer with all the rest of the food that's coming!
Title: Garlic Straws - NSVhol
Categories: Appetizers, Nsv
Yield: 20 straws
1/2 lb Puff pastry
Juice of 2-3 garlic cloves
2 oz Milk
1 ts Paprika
1 tb Parmesan cheese
Salt and cayenne pepper
Preheat oven to 425F. Roll out the puff pastry on a floured board into
a rectangle, as thinly as possible. Stir the garlic juice into most of
the milk and brush the pastry with half of it.  Mix the paprika and
Parmesan, and season with a little salt and cayenne. Sprinkle half of
it over one half of the pastry. Fold the pastry and  roll out as thinly
as possible.
Repeat with the remaining garlic milk and Parmesan mixture and roll out
to a rectangle not more than 1/4 inch thick. Brush with milk and  cut
into strips about 1/2 inch wide and 6 inches long.
Arrange the straws, at least an inch apart, on greased baking sheets
and bake for 7 to 10 minutes or until well-risen and golden brown. Serve
warm, piled onto each other, log cabin style.
The Great Garlic Cookbook, by Sophie Hale : ISBN 1-55521-801-6
