Title: A Curry Pantry 2
Categories: Information, Curries
Yield: 1 info  Chile peppers (capsicum spp) The fruits of the Capsicum genus, they
provide most of the heat in curries. They are found all over the
world and are used dried in commercial and home powders and both
fresh and dried in curry pastes.

Cilantro (eryngium foetidum) Coriander leaf, often used as a garnish
for curries, either whole or chopped. An ingredient in some curry
pastes. Cinnamon (cinnamomum zeylanicum) The bark of an evergreen
tree that grows in western India and Sri Lanka. It is a common
ingredient in curry powders and pastes from all over the world.

Cloves (eugenia caryophyllata) The dried, unopened flower buds of an
evergreen tree native to the Moluccas; the spice is now grown
extensively in Zanzibar. Cloves are a common ingredient in curry
powders and in curry pastes from Malaysia, Indonesia, and other parts
of Southeast Asia.

Coconut (cocos nucifera) The fruit of the Cocos genus of palms, found
in tropical regions all over the world. The grated flesh, and milk
extracted from it, appear in tropical curries from around the world.

Colombo The name for curry in the French West Indies.

Congo peppers (capsicum chinense) Extremely hot chilies that are
commonly added to Trinidadian curries.

Coriander (coriandrum sativum) The seed of a Mediterranean herb; one
of the most common ingredients in curry powders.

Cumin (cuminum cyminum) The seed of a common annual herb native to
Egypt; another common ingredient in curry powders.

Curry leaf (murraya koenigi) The aromatic leaf of the curry leaf tree
(or curry plant), which grows on the Indian subcontinent. the leaf is
used primarily in Indian home curry powders and usually does not
appear in commercial powders and pastes.

Dal The term usually means lentils, but it can refer to a number of
dried pulses.

Dill (anethum graveolens) The seed of a binnial herb native to
southern Europe; an ingredient in some commercial curry powders.

Fennel (foeniculum vulgare) The seed of a perennial herb native to
souther n Europe; an ingredient in some commercial curry powders.

Fenugreek (trigonella foenumgraecum) The seeds of an annual herb
native to the Mediterrean area and India, often available in powdered
form. A common ingredient in Indian curry powders.

Fish sauce Called nam pla in Thailand and nuoc cham in Vietnam, this
salty fermented fish sauce is found in Southeast Asian curries.

Five-spice powder A blend of star anise, fagara (Chinese prickly ash),
cassia, fennel, and cloves; popular in Southeast Asia, it occasionally
appears in curries.

Galangal (alpinia galanga) A close relative of ginger, this rhizome
appears in curry pastes from Malaysia, Indonesia, and other parts of
Southeast Asia.

Garam masala A powdered blend of basic Indian spices that may be
considered the beginnings of curry powder. The usual ingredients are
cumin, coriander, peppercorns, cloves, cinnamon, and sometimes mace.

Garlic (allium sativum) A perennial herb that appears in curries and
curry pastes all over the world.

A World of Curries
by Dave DeWitt and Arthur J. Pais
ISBN 0-316-18224-9
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   01-19-95

