Title: A Guide to Seafood on the Grill
Categories: Information, Seafood, Bbq/grill
Yield: 1 info  Any fish or shellfish, with few exceptions, can be grilled. The only
requirement is that the seafood must hold together under the intense
heat and when transferred on and off the grill. Virtually all
shellfish have this characteristic, as do most fish with firm or
medium textured flesh. softer, more delicate fish ÄÄ sole, whiting,
orange roughy ÄÄ are not appropriate unless wrapped in foil, lettuce
or grape leaves, corn husks or other wrappers.

Whole Fish
salmon
rockfish
trout
tilapia
striped bass

Start with scaled, cleaned whole fish; head-on will help maintain
maximum flavor and moisture; don't choose fish larger than grill can
easily accommodate. Season belly cavity with salt and pepper; add
lemon slices, herb sprigs, onion slices, crushed garlic, other
seasonings to belly if desired; close cavity with skewers if stuffed.
Brush outside of fish lightly with oil; cook over indirect heat with
lid or toward edges of fire until opaque through thickest part (just
behind gills), carefully turning the fish 2 or 3 times.

Fish Fillets
salmon
cod
halibut
sea bass
tilapia
catfish
bluefish
mahi-mahi
sturgeon
monkfish

If fillet has skin, begin grilling skin-side down over medium-high
heat until skin is crisp and fish is two-thirds cooked; carefully
turn the fillet and cook just until opaque through. If fish is
skinless, lightly brush with oil before cooking to help reduce
sticking; cook until nicely browned and about half cooked, then turn
and continue cooking until opaque through (cut to test). Marinate
fillets before cooking if desired.

Fish Steaks
salmon
swordfish
tuna
shark
sturgeon
halibut

Choose steaks that are 1-2 inches thick so they hold up on the grill;
marinate before cooking if desired. Cook steaks over high heat until
nicely browned and about half cooked; turn and continue cooking until
opaque through. Tuna and sometimes salmon are delicious served medium
rather than well done.

Shellfish
live oysters
live clams
live mussels
lobster
shrimp
scallops

Scrub shells of oysters, clams and mussels and set directly on grill
over hot fire; set oysters with cupped side down to hold in liquor;
grill until shells pop open. Very large shrimp can go directly on the
grill; other shrimp and scallops should be threaded on skewers;
marinate before cooking if desired. Lobster can be briefly steamed
before grilling; claws may take a little longer than split tails.

Simply Seafood Summer 1994
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   01-13-95

