Title: Baked Macaroni With Zucchini And Three Cheeses
Categories: Vegetable, Pasta, Cheese/eggs, Casserole
Yield: 6 servings
1 qt Cold milk
1 ts Salt; plus more to taste
1/4 ts Nutmeg, freshly grated;
-plus more to taste
1/2 c  Sour cream
1 ts Worcestershire sauce;
-plus more to taste
Few drops tabasco sauce
1 1/2 c  Sharp cheddar cheese;
Grated
1 1/2 c  Swiss cheese; grated
1/2 c  Parmesan cheese, freshly
-grated, packed
1 lb Macaroni, elbow
6 tb Unsalted butter;
-plus more if needed
1 tb Olive oil
2 md Zucchini, trimmed and
-thinly sliced
1 1/2 c  Mushrooms; sliced
1    Med-lg onion; coarsely
Chopped
1 md Red bell pepper, seeds
& ribs removed; cut in
1/2" dice
2    Garlic cloves; minced
1/4 c  Flour
Recipe by: From The Farmers' Market - ISBN 0-06-055005-8 1. Preheat
oven to 400°F. Cook the macaroni in a large pot of boiling salted
water until just al dente, about 8 mins. Drain, rinse under cold
water, and drain again. Set aside. 2. Meanwhile, heat 2 Tbs of butter
with the olive oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat. Add the
zucchini and the mushrooms and saute, tossing occasionally, for 5
mins. Transfer to plate; set aside. 3. Add 3 Tbs of the butter to the
skillet and lower the heat to medium. Add the onion, red pepper, and
garlic and saute, tossing occasionally, until the vegetables are
softened but not brown, about  8 mins. 4. Sprinkle the vegetables in
the skillet with the flour and stir with a wooden spoon. If the
mixture is too dry to stir, add a bit more butter. Cook until the
flour is opaque, about 4 mins. Add the milk to the skillet and bring
to a boil, stir occasionally. Add the salt and nutmeg and simmer the
sauce 5 mins. Remove the sauce from the heat and stir in the sour
cream, Worcestershire, and Tabasco. Correct all seasonings. 5. In a
large mixing bowl (or the pot used to cook the macaroni), toss
together the drained macaroni, reserved zucchini mixture, and the
sauce. Combine the grated Cheddar and Swiss cheeses; set aside 1/4
cup of this mixture. Add the grated cheese mixture to the macaroni,
stirring gently to combine thoroughly, and transfer to a buttered 9 x
13-inch baking dish. Combine the reserved 1/4 cup cheese with the
grated Parmesan; scatter this mixture over the macroni and dot with
the remaining Tbs butter. 6. Bake until crusty, about 45 mins. Run
under the broiler just until nicely golden, about 45 seconds (watch
carefully). Serve immediately.

NOTES : Here's an interesting and colorful variation of everybody's
favorite.

From:  Dan Klepach

