Title: Baking From Northern Italy, By Richard Sax - 4
Categories: Bread, Holiday
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM--------------------------SERVINGS-------------------------------
MMMMM----------------SOURCE: GOURMET MAGAZINE, 02---------------------
MMMMM---------------------FROM: SALLIE KREBS--------------------------
Is there anything more Viennese than strudel? Yet strucolo, its name
changed but the delicious flaky pastry intact, is one of Trieste's
most typical desserts. (One sixteenth-century Italian recipe refers
to strudel as "torta alla tedesca," or German torte.) Strucolo di
ricotta (ricotta strudel) is one of the best examples of a dish of
Jewish origin that has become assimilated into the larger Italian
culinary culture. Ernesto Illy, director of the esteemed company
Illycaffe, based in Trieste, points out that, as exemplified by this
strudel, the Jewish influence in Trieste is difficult to isolate, for
Jews have long been thoroughly integrated into the city's cultural
life. Strudel is made in Trieste with either this ricotta filling or
with apples (strucolo di mele). Many recipes call for lining the
dough with dried bread crumbs to absorb the filling's moisture.
Strudels are also made with a dough based on mashed potatoes, similar
to gnocchi dough. And strucolo can also be wrapped in a cloth and
steamed or simmered in water, instead of being baked. This cheese
filling is scented with lemon and raisins, a flavor combination
typical of the region, and the recipe, simplified by using phyllo
instead of hand-stretched strudel dough, specifies ending with a
simple sprinkling of confectioners' sugar. Strudels are also,
however, frequently served drizzled with a mixture of bread crumbs,
sugar, and melted butter; non-sweet versions are topped with melted
butter and grated cheese or with meat sauce. (Strucolo recipe here)
"Of indubitable Austrian origin," says one Trieste source about the
various desserts called coch. These souffle-like puddings can be made
with semolina, rice, almonds, or bread crumbs. In German, the
following semolina version of coch is called Griesskoch and is
related to the category of Italian budino, or pudding, desserts that
includes budino di ricotta. In his monumental La Scienza in Cucina e
l'Arte di Mangiar Bene, first published in 1890 (and still in print),
Pellegrino Artusi calls this general category of desserts dolci al
cucchiaio ("sweets with a spoon"), among which are all sorts of
creams, zabaglione, and the currently ubiquitous tiramisu. Many of
these desserts are served unmolded. This simple, comforting semolina
pudding can be inverted and unmolded after baking, but I think its
golden surface looks so good that I prefer to serve it right from the
baking dish. If you like, add a handful of grappa- or brandy-soaked
raisins to the semolina mixture before folding in the beaten egg
whites. (Coch recipe here)

Submitted By SALLIE KREBS   On   12-07-94

