Title: Basic Beef Fajitas in Dipped Tortillas
Categories: Tex/mexican, Main dish, Beef
Yield: 4 servings
-frying the skirt steak
12    Scallions; trimmed
12    Corn tortillas
Salsa Verde
1 md Onion
1 ts Pure chili powder
1/4 c  Fresh lime juice
2 1/2 lb Skirt steak
2 tb Olive or peanut oil; if
MMMMM--------------------------TOPPINGS-------------------------------
2    Fresh limes; cut into 12
-thin wedges each
1/3 c  Thinly shredded fresh mint
-leaves
1.  Grate the onion through the fine holes of a hand grater or mince
very fine in a food processor.  Place the onion in a nonreactive pan
or dish large enough to hold the meat in 1 or 2 layers.  Add the
chili powder and lime juice and stir to mix.  Place the skirt steak
in the mixture and turn to coat.  Set aside to marinate at room
temperature for 30 minutes, turning once, or refrigerate and marinate
for up to 2 hours, turning once or twice.

2.  IF GRILLING, prepare a charcoal fire and allow the coals to burn
until they are mostly covered with white ash but a few red spots show
through here and there.  This will take about 40 minutes.  When the
fire is ready, remove the skirt steak from the marinade.  Place on
the grill rack directly over the coals.  Grill for 3 to 5 minutes on
each side, depending on the thickness of the steak and how well done
you like it. Remove the steak to a platter and set aside for the
juices to settle, 5 to 10 minutes.

IF FRYING, pour 1 tablespoon of the oil in a large nonreactive
frying pan set over medium-high heat until the oil begins to smoke.
Place as much of the steak as will fit in one uncrowded layer.  Cook
for 3 to 5 minutes on each side.  Remove, add more oil to the pan,
and continue with another round until all the steak is cooked.  Set
aside to rest for 5 to 10 minutes.

3.  While the steak rests, grill or pan-fry the scallions until limp
and charred in spots, about 5 minutes.  Remove the scallions and cut
crosswise into 3 or 4 pieces each.

4.  Just before serving, dip the tortillas in the Salsa Verde.  Heat
in a frying pan or the oven (at 400F for 3 minutes on the rack).

5.  To assemble, cut the steak across the grain into thin slices.
Spread 4 or 5 slices across the middle of a warm dipped tortilla, top
with 6 or so pieces of scallion.  Sprinkle some mint over the onions.
Fold and serve with a lime wedge on the side, to be squeezed on the
fajita as it is eaten.

from The Well-Filled Tortilla Cookbook by Victoria Wise and Susanna
Hoffman typed by Tiffany Hall-Graham
Submitted By TIFFANY HALL-GRAHAM   On   01-12-95

