Title: Bloody Mary From Loren Martin
Categories: Beverage, Tomato, Herbs/spice, Alcohol
Yield: 4 servings
Fresh ground pepper to taste
6 ea Jiggers vodka
Tabasco sauce, to taste
4 ea Celery stalks for garnish
1 ea Lime cut into quarters for
Garnish
4 ea Cooked jumbo prawns, chilled
For garnish
32 oz Fresh tomato juice (approx
6 pounds tomatoes)
4 tb Finely chopped red onion
1 ea Red or green finely chopped
Jalapeno pepper
4 tb Finely chopped cucumber
Juice of 2 limes
2 tb Worcestershire sauce
Salt to taste
To prepare the tomato juice, begin with very ripe, juicy tomatoes. The
better the flavor of the tomatoes, the better the juice.  For every
quart of juice, you will need approximately 2 quarts of fresh
tomatoes. Chop the tomatoes coarsely.  Place tomatoes in a stainless
steel pot and bring to a simmer over low heat.  Cook until the
tomatoes soften completely and their juices are released.  Remove
from heat, cool, and run the tomatoes and juice through a food mill,
fine sieve or juicer to remove the seeds and skin.  Pour the tomato
puree into a bowl and let stand for approximately half an hour.
Tomatoes that contain a significant amount of water may separate,
causing the water to rise to the top. If this happens, skim off the
water. If necessary, keep skimming as long as the juice keeps
separating.  The more water you remove, the thicker the tomato juice.
Taste the juice.  Remember, this is not canned.  It might taste
slightly bland without the salt, sugar and citric acid used by
commercial canners to bring out the flavors.  It should have a heavy,
rich tomato aroma, and if the flavor doesn't quite meet your
specifications, add salt, sugar or lemon juice to suit your palate.
Refrigerate the juice immediately. It will keep for a few days, but
the flavor diminishes with time.

In a 2-quart pitcher, combine the tomato juice with everything except
the celery and lime wedges.  Pour into 4 tall glasses full of ice and
garnish with a celery stalk and lime wedge on each.  If you are in a
flamboyant mood, top each Bloody Mary with a cooked, chilled jumbo
prawn.

(In the absence of fresh tomatoes, we use either V-8 juice or canned
tomato juice, and the results are still spectacular!)

From:  Tomatoes, A Country Garden Cookbook by Jesse Ziff Cool, Collins
Publishers, San Francisco, 1994. Typed by Loren Martin, Big Cabin,
Oklahoma.....where the buffalo roam!

