Title: Blueberry and Walnut Pie 2
Categories: Pie/tart, Nuts/grains, Fruit
Yield: 8 servings
MMMMM------------------------SERVINGS:  8-----------------------------
3 ea Tb Water
1 ea Tb Grated lemon zest
3/4 c  Walnut pieces
- toasted & coarsely chopped
WALNUT CRUMB TOPPING
4 ea Tb Butter
1/4 c  Sugar
1/2 t  Cinnamon
3/4 c  Unbleached all-purpose flour
1/2 c  Walnuts, coarsely chopped
SWEET PASTRY DOUGH
1 c  Unbleached all-purpose flour
1/4 c  Sugar
1 pn Salt
1/4 t  Baking powder
4 ea Tb Butter
1 lg Egg
BLUEBERRY FILLING
2 ea Pt Blueberries
3/4 c  Sugar
3 ea Tb Cornstarch
MIXING THE PASTRY DOUGH: Stir together the dry ingredients in a bowl.
Cut up and add the butter; toss gently to coat. Rub in the butter
until the mixture looks sandy. Beat the egg and toss into the flour
and butter mixture. Press the dough together, wrap and chill it.
FORMING THE PIE SHELL: Lightly flour the work surface and dough. Roll
the dough to a 14-inch diameter disk, 1/8-inch thick. Fit the dough
into a 9-inch oven-proof glass pie pan and trim away all but 1/4-inch
of the excess dough. Turn the excess dough under and flute the edge
of the pie. Chill while preparing the filling. MIXING THE FILLING:
Rinse and pick over the blueberries and drain them on a
paper-towel-lined pan. Combine one third of the berries and the sugar
in a saucepan and bring to a simmer over medium heat, stirring
occasionally. Simmer the berries in the juices that accumulate about
5 minutes. Strain the juices into another pan. Pour the water into a
small bowl and stir in the cornstarch to dissolve it. Return the
blueberry juices to a boil and beat about one quarter of it into the
dissolved cornstarch. Return the remaining juices to a boil and beat
the cornstarch mixture into it. Return the juices to a boil, beating
constantly, and allow to boil about 1 to 2 minutes, beating
constantly. Stir in the remaining blueberries, the cooked berries,
lemon zest and walnuts, and cool. MIXING THE CRUMB TOPPING: Cream the
butter until soft, add the sugar and cream until soft and light. Beat
in the cinnamon. Mix in the flour, then the walnuts. The mixture
should fall into large, soft crumbs. Pour the filling into the
prepared pan and smooth. Scatter over the crumbs and bake at 350F
until the filling is set, the crumbs have colored and the crust is
baked through, about 40 minutes. Cool on a rack. Makes one 9-inch pie.

Submitted By PAT STOCKETT   On   01-27-95

