Title: Broiling Techniques
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 info  Broiled fish is cooked under one heating element in the oven. The
broiler should be fully preheated before the fish is put in to cook,
and the oven rack should be adjusted so that the fish is about 3
inches from the heat. The close, intense heat of broiling cooks fish
quickly but requires some attention so that the fish cooks evenly
without drying out. If your oven rack's highest position does not put
the fish close enough to the heat, set an inverted rimmed baking
sheet on the rack and put the baking sheet with the fish on top of
that.

Choose fillet or fish pieces ¬- to 1¬-inches thick. Shrimp, scallops
and squid can also be broiled, threaded on skewers to simplify
turning and transferring to plates. Firm fish such as salmon or
halibut can also be cut into cubes and skewered.

Fish with delicate texture and mild flavor is most susceptible to
drying out. consider marinating these fish before cooking. Marinades
help maintain moistness and also enhance the flavor of mild fish.

Full-flavored fish such as  salmon and swordfish are among the best
candidates for broiling because they have higher oil content and hold
up well to the direct heat without drying.

Broil fish first on one side until lightly browned and opaque about
1/3 into the fish. Then turn to finish cooked per your recipe. Most
fish will be cooked until opaque through the thickest part.

If you are using a marinade, baste the second side before continuing.

For easy cleanup, line your broiler or baking sheet with a piece of
foil and lightly oil it before adding the fish.

How-to-Broil

1. If using a marinade, combine the ingredients in a shallow dish and
stir to mix.

2. Add the fish pieces to the marinade and turn to evenly coat. if not
using a marinade, you may choose to lightly season the fish on both
sides with salt and pepper.

3. Set the oven rack 3-4 inches below the element and preheat the
broiler. Line the broiler pan with foil and lightly oil the foil.

4. Remove the fish from the marinade, allowing excess to drip off.
Arrange the fish pieces on the broiler pan, allowing at least one
inch between them.

5. Broil the fish a few minutes, according to your recipe. Turn the
fish and spoon on any reserved marinade, if using.

6. Continue broiling until the fish is just opaque through the
thickest part (cut to test). Transfer to individual plates and serve.

Simply Seafood Spring 1994
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   01-13-95

