Title: Brunswick Stew III
Categories: Chicken, Pork, Soup/stew, Vegetable
Yield: 10 servings
2 ea Cans yellow corn
1 ea Clove garlic
2 ea Large onions
- chopped
2 tb Cooking oil
- salt pepper to taste
2 lb Boston butt
1 ea Medium chicken
1 cn Tomatoes
1 ea Bottle ketchup
1 ea Small bottle BBQ
- sauce
Everything is run through a food processor.  Cook boston butt and
chicken on grill for maximum flavor.  Cut the boston butt and chicken
up in small pieces for the food processor, discarding all bones. Make
sure you DO NOT grind any bones.  You want the meat to be stringy
looking.  Place the finished meat in a large cooking pot on the
stove.  Run the onions and garlic through the food processor. Saute
the onions and garlic in a frying pan, then place in the pot with the
meat. Run the corn and tomatoes through the processor along with
their liquids. Place in pot. Pour the bottles of ketchup and BBQ
sauce in the pot. Fill the ketchup and BBQ bottles with water, shake
well and pour in pot. Salt and pepper to taste. Simmer slowly for two
(2) hours, stirring every 20 minutes to marry the flavors and keep
from sticking.  For more kick, drop in two (2) Tablespoons of cayenne
pepper.  The preferred BBQ sauce is Kraft 1898 Hickory. If you can't
find it, use any of your choice, but add 1 tablespoonful of Liquid
Smoke. If needed, add plain water to the pot to keep it the right
consistency.

The secret to good Brunswick Stew is Bar-B-Queing the meat and
allowing all ingredients to slowly, very slowly, cook in a large pot,
stirring every 20 minutes or so.  Take the shortcut and you'll get
inferior stew. Stew like good Bar-B-Que, is done s-l-o-w-l-y.

Being from Georgia I've tasted all types of so called stew from Texas
to the Carolinas.  Some people put lima beans and potatoes in it.
Some people make it so thick it looks like hash.  Real Brunswick Stew
has both pork and chicken, corn, onions and tomatoes, no beef.
That's it and it looks like a thick soup not hash.  The liquid is
just as much a part of the great taste as the solid ingredients.  I
can remember my grandfather killing a pig and chickens and spit
cooking them. Then using an old fashion hand grinder, running all the
ingredients through it and placing them in a big black iron wash pot
outside. He started at daybreak and the finished product was ready by
sundown. I've yet to taste any better. The only thing that
accompanied a bowl of Brunswick Stew was two or three slices of plain
white loaf bread.

Like BBQ sauces Brunswick Stew comes in all sizes and shapes.  I've
taken this recipe and given it to folks who enter BBQ contests.  They
may not win the ribs, butt, chicken or sauce categories, but they
have won, on many occasions, the stew contest.
Tom O'Neal ---
Submitted By TOM O'NEAL   On   01-04-95

