Title: Caribbean Chicken Pie with Sweet Potato Crust
Categories: Main dish, Chicken, Casserole, Sweetpotato, Caribbean
Yield: 4 servings
Chili pepper, stemmed,
-seeded and minced
Orange sweet potatoes,
-peeled and cut into chunks
Salt and pepper, to taste
lg Chicken breast (about 1
-Lb), cut into cubes
Bell pepper, stemmed,
-seeded and diced
1 T  Vegetable oil
2 ea Onions, chopped
1 t  Curry powder
1 ea Clove garlic, minced
1 t  Ground ginger
1 t  Sugar
1/3 c  Milk
1 c  Chopped canned tomatoes
1/2 c  Plain yogurt
Heat half of the oil in a large nonstick saucepan; add half of the
chopped onions and cook over moderate heat, stirring frequently.  Add
the curry powdewr, garlic, half of the ginger and half of the chili
pepper. Cook for another minute.  Add the potatoes and toss.  Add 3/4
cup of water and the sugar, salt and pepper.  Cook, covered, until
the potatoes are tender and the water has all evaporated, about 15
minutes. Mash the potatoes with a masher or a large fork.  Mix in the
milk and adjust the seasoning with salt and pepper. Preheat the oven
to 375F. Press the potato mixture iinto the bottom and sides of a
9-inch pie plate in an even layer.  Set aside. Cook the rest of the
onion in the rest of the oil in a nonstick skillet over medium-high
heat for about 1 minute, until softened.  Add the chicken and cook
for about 1 minute, until it loses its raw look. Add the bell pepper
and the remaining ginger and chili pepper; cook for an additional 2
minutes.  Add the tomato and cook until thickened. Season to taste
with salt and pepper.  Stir in the yogurt.  Fill the sweet potato
"pie shell" with the chicken mixture and bake for 20 minutes. NOTE:
"If you have leftover sweet potatoes, simply start by cooking the
onions and seasoning as described in the first step and then mix them
into the already cooked potatoes." Makes 4 servings. Per serving: 421
calories; 68 g carbohydrate; 42 mg cholesterol; 494 mg sodium; 21 g
protein, 7 g fat; 2 g saturated fat. [Pies Are Not Just For Dessert;
Andrew Schloss] [The Washington Post; November 30 1994] Posted by
Fred Peters.

Submitted By FRED PETERS   On   12-15-94

