Title: Cerkes Tavugu (Cold Shredded Chicken with Walnut Sauce)
Categories: Middle east, Turkish, Side dish, Chicken
Yield: 8 servings
3 sl White bread; (homemade type)
1 ts Paprika
Black pepper; freshly ground
1 tb Parsley; finely chopped and
;preferably flat leaf
3 1/2 lb Chicken; cut into 8 serving
;pieces
3 c  Water
1 1/2 ts Salt
1 1/2 c  Walnuts, shelled
1/2 c  Onion; finely chopped
In a 4 to 5 quart saucepan, combine the chicken, water and 1/2
teaspoon of the salt.  Bring to a boil over high heat, reduce the
heat to low, partially cover, and simmer for 30 minutes, or until the
chicken is tender but not falling apart.  Transfer the chicken to a
plate, and boil the stock rapidly, uncovered, over until reduced to 1
1/2 cups.
Combine the walnuts, onions and stock in the jar of an electric
blender and blend at high speed for 15 seconds.  Add the bread, 1/2
teaspoon of the paprika, the remaining 1 teaspoon of salt and a few
grindings of pepper, and blend at high speed until the mixture
becomes a smooth puree.
(To make the walnut puree by hand, pulverize the nuts with a nut
grinder or mortar and pestle.  Transfer them to a bowl, add the
onions, and, with the back of a spoon, mash them together to a smooth
paste. Tear and shred the bread with a fork, then mash it into the
nuts. Beat in the hot stock, a few tablespoons at a time, and
continue beating until the mixture is smooth and thick enough to hold
its shape almost solidly in a spoon.)
When the chicken is cool enough to handle, remove the skin with a
small knife or your fingers and cut or pull the meat away from the
bones. Discard the bones, and cut the chicken meat into strips about
1/8 inch wide and 1 to 1 1/2 inches long.  Place the chicken in a
bowl and add 1 1/2 cups of the walnut sauce, tossing the chicken
about with a spoon to coat the pieces well.
Mound the chicken on a platter, mask the top with the remaining
sauce, and sprinkle with 1/2 teaspoon of paprika.  Garnish with
parsley if desired.
NOTE:  A more traditional garnish for cerkes tavugu is made from
paprika and the oil of ground walnuts.  For this, pulverize 1/4 cup
of shelled walnuts with 1/2 teaspoon of paprika in a mortar and
pestle. Place a spoonful of the mixture at a time in a garlic press,
and squeeze the oil over the chicken.

12 of 117

Source: Time Life Series: Middle Eastern Cooking  "circa '69"

MMed by: earl.cravens@salata.com
Submitted By EARL CRAVENS   On   01-06-95 (2059)

