Title: Chickpea Snacks   (Takes 2-3 Days)
Categories: Fatfree, Snack
Yield: 1 servings
1/2 t  Cayenne
1 pk Artificial sweetner
(1-gram)
1/2 lb Dried chickpeas
5 c  Water
1 c  Apple juice
1 c  Vegetable stock
2 t  Salt
2 t  Onion powder
2 t  Garlic powder
1 t  Dry mustard
1 t  Turmeric
3/4 t  White pepper
1/2 t  Black pepper
Combine 1 TABLESPOON ONLY of the seasoning mix with the artificial
sweetener and set aside.

Place the chickpeas and water in a container, add the rest of the
UNsweetened seasoning mix, and soak overnight in the refrigerator.
The peas will be more than double in volume, so make sure the pot is
big enough to hold them.

The next day: Place chickpeas and the (seasoned) soaking water in a 5
quart pot over high heat. Add apple juice and cook 20 minutes. Add
vegetable stock and cook until peas are just tender, 40 minutes.
Remove from heat, drain peas in colander, rinse well, and drain.

Sprinkle peas evenly with reserved sweetened seasoning mix.

Now you can cook them one of two ways. 1. Use a food dehydrator.
Spread evenly around the trays and dehydrate until peas are dry and
crunchy, about 20-22 hours. 2. Use an oven. Spread peas on cookie
sheets or sheet pans and cook at 150 degrees until dry and crunchy,
about 20-22 hours.

COMMENTS: I didn't have white pepper so used 1 teaspoon black pepper
total. I tried this recipe both with and without the artificial
sweetner and it's better *with* it.  Regular sugar doesn't work at
all. Did not have a dehydrator, dryed them in the oven.  It took 15
hours one time, 20 hours another.  Must have been the number of times
I opened the oven door. You have to move the pans from one shelf to
another and turn them every couple of hours or they won't dry evenly.
I did not stir the peas.

Maybe Santa will bring me a dehydrator?  Anybody out there in low fat
land with a brand recommendation? Enjoy!

From Paul Prudhomme's book "Fork in the Road".

Claudia, redcz@aol.com. Fatfree Digest [Volume 10 Issue 48], Sept. 28,
1994. Formatted by Sue Smith, S.Smith34, TXFT40A@Prodigy.com using
MMCONV. H Other ingredients

