Title: Christmas Orange Bread
Categories: Fatfree, Bread, Fruit, Holiday
Yield: 1 servings
1/4 c  Raisins
1/2 c  Chopped nuts
1/2 c  Sugar
1/2 c  Mashed banana
2 1/2 c  Unbleached flour
1 1/2    Mixed candied fruit
1/2 c  Homemade Wonderslim (or
Prune babyfood)
3    Eggs equivalent of Egg
Substitute
1/2 c  Orange juice
4 ts Baking powder
3/4 ts Salt
Mix flour, sugar, baking powder, salt, raisins, nuts, and candied
fruit together.  Combine and beat slightly the banana and orange
juice; Set aside. Beat eggs into Wonderslim/prunes one at a time.
Alternately, add prune/egg mixture and banana/orange mixture to dry
ingredients mixed with fruits and nuts.  A wooden "fork" works well
for the mixing. Pack into 9X5X3 loaf pan lightly sprayed with Pam and
lined with wax paper. Bake at 350o for 1 hr. or until done.  Cool 20
min. before removing wax paper and turning out on a rack. Cool before
icing.

Icing:   Mix powdered sugar into an egg white until smooth and easily
spreadable.  You want a thin icing. If you get it too thick, add a
little skim milk.  Dot icing with cut up candied (glace') cherries as
desired.

After frosting is firm, wrap in aluminum foil and refrigerate.
Improves with freezing.

Notes:  I usually double or triple the recipe. Otherwise, you'll have
leftover icing (which is also good on cookies). You can divide the
dough out into smaller pans; makes nice gifts.

I have modified the original posted recipe for Homemade Wonderslim by
decreasing the lecithin:

3 c. water 1 12 oz. pk. prunes (cut-up type) 1 T. unbleached lecithin
1/4 tsp. citric acid

Cover prunes with water and bring to a boil.  Cool. Blend prunes,
water, lecithin, and citric acid in blender until smooth. Pour in
clean quart jar and refrigerate. Keeps up to 30 days. I pour mine
into old jelly jars and freeze them.  I use 1:1 amounts when
substituting for oleo in recipes.

Posted by BETTE IDE <IDE@uwyo.edu> to Fatfree Digest [Volume 13 Issue
18] Dec. 18, 1994. FATFREE Recipe collections copyrighted by Michelle
Dick 1994. Used with permission. Formatted by Sue Smith, S.Smith34,
TXFT40A@Prodigy.com using MMCONV.

1.80รก

