Title: Classic Prime Rib
Categories: Meat
Yield: 8 servings
2 tb Flavorless cooking oil
Salt and pepper; to taste
1    Standing roast of beef
- (4-rib, about 10-11 lbs)
PREHEAT OVEN TO 450F. TRIM the excess fat from the roast, leaving only
1/4-inch of fat. Heat the oil in a large roasting pan over
medium-to-high heat on top of the stove. When the oil is hot, place
the roast, fat-side down, in the pan and brown for 5 minutes. Turn
the roast on one end and cook another 5 minutes. Turn on the other
end and cook 5 minutes. Remove from heat and discard fat. Sprinkle
with desired salt and pepper. Place roast in oven and immediately
reduce heat to 350F. Roast approximately 12 minutes per pound for
medium-rare, or about 2 hours for a 10-lb roast. Remove the pan from
the oven, remove the roast from the pan and let stand for 25 minutes
before carving. To serve, strain the gravy into a sauceboat and carve
the roast at the table, counting on about 2 people per rib.

FREEZING THE ROAST: Do not carve the entire roast if you don't have
to. A whole solid piece of meat is more successfully cooked when
defrosted than a few smaller pieces. Before freezing, heat a dry fry
pan over high heat on top of the stove. Place the remainder of the
roast, cut side down, in the pan and sear well. Allow the roast to
cool to room temperature. Wrap with freezer paper and then over wrap
in plastic wrap. Label and place in the freezer for up to 1 month.
Defrost, without unwrapping, in the refrigerator for 24 to 28 hours.
To reheat defrosted rib roast, wrap prime rib in 1 layer of microwave
plastic wrap and place in a covered roasting pan or Dutch oven.
Cover, place in the oven, turn temperature to 250F and cook about 8
minutes per pound or until a meat thermometer placed in the thickest
part of the roast reads 110F. Remove pan from the oven and turn
temperature to 450F. Unwrap the roast, replace, uncovered in the pan
and replace in the oven for about 15 minutes to crust the outside.

MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
Submitted By FRED TOWNER   On   01-06-95

