Title: Corn, Bean, And Pumpkin Stew
Categories: Fatfree, Soup/stew, Vegetable, Beans, Pumpkin
Yield: 1 servings
Make the stock yourself, she
Suggests
One made with carrots,
Zucchini, onion, potato,
Parsley, garlic,
Cinnamon, cloves, coriander
Seeds, cumin seeds, cardamom
Pods, and
Salt ]
3 c  Pumpkin or winter squash,
Peeled and cut into 1 inch
Cubes
2    Serrano chilies, seeded and
Finely chopped [or to make
It hotter
Without adding chili powder,
Leave in the seeds]
x  Cilantro or parsley,
Chopped, for garnish
1 c  Pinto beans, soaked
Overnight and drained
x  Salt
1 lb Tomatoes, fresh or canned,
Peeled, seeded, and chipped,
Juice
Reserved [peeled and seeded?
Yea, right.]
3    Ears corn (about 1 1/2 C
Kernels)
1 t  Cumin seeds
1 t  Oregano
1    Inch piece of cinnamon
3    Cloves
1 lg Onion, cut into a medium
Dice
2    Cloves garlic, finely
Chopped
1 T  Paprika
2 c  Bean broth or stock [if you
Cook the beans in water and 1/2 t salt for about 1.5 hrs or until
beans are tender.  Drain and reserve the cooking liquid.

Warm a small heavy skillet and toast the cumin seeds until their
fragrance emerges; then add the oregano, stir for 5 seconds, and
quickly transfer the spices to a plate or bowl so they don't burn.
Combine them with the cinnamon and the cloves, and grind to a powder
in an electric spice mill.

Heat a wide skilled [with water or some sauteing liquid] and saute the
onion briskly over high heat for 1 minute; then lower the heat to
medium. Add the garlic, the spices, the paprika, and 1 t salt.  Stir
well to combine; then add 1/2 C reserved bean broth or stock and
cook, stirring occasionally, until the onion is soft.  Next add the
tomatoes and cook 5 minutes.  Then add the pumpkin or winter squash
along with another C of bean broth or stock.  After 20 to 30 minutes,
or when the pumpkin is about half-cooked -- soft but still too firm
to eat -- add the corn, the beans, and the fresh chilies.  Thin with
the reserved tomato juice, adding more broth or stock as necessary.
Cook until the pumpkin is tender. Check the seasoning, and add more
salt if necessary. Serve garnished with the chopped cilantro or
parsley.

Even though there is corn in the stew, corn bread or tortillas make a
good accompaniment.

Well, the book is actually Greens, not Savory Way, but here's the
adapted recipe (p. 218 for those of you that have it on your shelf).

From: Cindy_Bloch@transarc.com. Fatfree Digest [Volume 11 Issue 4],
Oct. 13, 1994. Formatted by Sue Smith, S.Smith34, TXFT40A@Prodigy.com
using MMCONV.

