Title: Dehydrator Odd's N End's
Categories: Can/preserv, Information
Yield: 1 servings
-suggested low heat, the
-wax melts into
Whatever you're drying.
NEVER use waxed paper in
-your dehydrator.  Some
-users have found out the
Hard way that even at the
LABEL fruit leathers as you put them on the trays.  Just slip a crap
of paper under the edge of the plastic wrap or leather tray.
Leathers can look so much alike - don't lose the recipe for a really
terrific one. DIP white meated apples into pineapple juice to keep
them white as they dry... diluted fresh lemon juice works as well.
SLICED TOMATOES also may be placed directly on screens and dry
beautifully. Slice with the stem (vertically) about 1/4 inch thick.
They won't drip through creens and just peel off when dry.  Thin ones
make great 'chips'. ONIONS sliced with the stem rather than across it
aren't as prone to yellow when they dry, and will dry into beautiful
crescent shapes. NO BLENDER? Mash desired fruit for leather. FRUIT
LEATHERS can be made from canned, frozen, or soaked dried fruits as
well as fresh. GREEN GRAPES, CRANBERRIES dry in 1/4 of the time and
have nicer color and flavor, is sliced in half instead of drying
whole. PARSNIPS when sliced thin are crisp and delicious alone or
with dip, try them to believe them. MOST dried fruits are used 'as
is', for delicious quick enery nibbling. But soaking them adds a new
dimension to their versatility. SOAK most fruits overnight for good
consistency.  Use plain water, it quickly becomes sweet juice.
Refrigerate what's left as it ferments quickly at room temperature.
USE liquid from soaked dried fruits for refresing drinks, or as all
or part of the liquid for puddings or shakes. DRIED BANANAS are
deliciously creamy when reconstituted in rich milk. Add a little
vanilla and whiz in your blender for banana cream pudding. PLAIN
soaked dried bananas will make any breakfast eggnog or milkshak rich
and creamy. If the bananas are very thin chips, the may not even
require pre-soaking. They making your shake with juice, as well as
the traditional milk. SWEETEN your tangy fruit combinations with
bananas, pears or dates. COTTAGE CHEESE can also be dried with
excellent results.  A blender can give it the creamy texture, or you
may push through a sieve. Origin: Dry It - You'll Like It! circa
1973. Shared by: Sharon Stevens, Jan/95.

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   01-27-95

