Title: Dehydrator Hints for Herbs
Categories: Can/preserv, Herbs/spice, Information
Yield: 1 servings
No Ingredients Found
**NOTE**  This is primarily intended to give you some practical
information about drying herbs.  There are too many herbs to describe
each one individually for their nutritional and medicinal properties.
There are some excellent books which do so, in detail. We suggest
that you purchase such an herbal reference and discover this
fascination field. Almost every weed in your yard is a useful herb.
You might start with the lowly dandelion, or maybe some plantain.
Even the quack grass... but don't waste them, do it now! GENERAL
INFORMATION:

Gahter each herb when it is lush, green and full of chlorophyll.  Get
in the habit of picking when at it's freshest.  Or, carry a few
plastic bags in your pockets whenever you take a walk.  You just
never know when you might come across something that you can dry for
future use.  Avoid picking near roads, where herbs are dusty and
subjected to automobile exhausts fumes, etc. Pick clean. The les
'garbage' you gather with your herbs (other plants, twigs, dirt, dead
leaves, etc), the less work for you later. Rainwashed herbs seldom
need additional washing.  But, don't pick them dripping wet.  Let the
sun do some of your work for you. Roots need to be scrubbed.  If you
have a quantity, use your washing machine. First, hose off loose
dirt, then agitate awhile in a washerful of cold water. When you've
gathered large amounts of herbs, spread them out on old sheetsor big
towels (keeping each one seperate) in a darkened room to wilt and
shrink up a little before loading your dehydrator trays. (Herbs left
exposed to light will quickly loose their color).  The wiltedleaves
take less room in the dryer and dry faster.  While they are spread
out, you have a chance to cull out large stems, dead leaves, etc,
before drying. DRYING: Arrange herbs loosely on dryer trays to allow
adequate air flow. Rotate trays as needed for even drying. The key to
high quality dried herbs is fast drying at low temperatures. Never
exceed 105F. Most herbs will dry in one day and the quality will be
excellent. As herb dry and shrink, consolidate them, making room for
more fresh herbs on the upper trays. STORING: Make sure your herbs
are crackly dry before packaging.  If ther is any moisture present,
they may be subject to mold and deterioration. Make sure to remember
to label them immediately. Origin: Dry It - You'll Like It! circa
1973. Shared by: Sharon Stevens, Jan/95.

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   01-27-95

