Title: Dehydrating Apples
Categories: Apples, Information, Spread, Fruit
Yield: 1 servings
-seeds, nuts and grains.
-The make a binder for
Dried wafers and
-confections.
You can slice them, dice
-them, chunk them, leather
-them and combine them
- with other fruits, with
Dry them sliced, diced, chunke, even shredded.  1/4 inch slices are
about right.  Try to keep pieces the same size for even drying.  Dry
everything... even peels and trimmings. TO USE DRIED APPLES: For a
mild good tasting juice, just soak apple parts in water. (this is a
good way to use up peels and trimmings)  A thin slice of dried apple
makes a delicious snack.  To soften, pour a little water over druit,
drain, andlet set a few hours in a covered jar. Or, simple leave the
package open a day or two and let the moisture in the air soften the
apples. BASIC APPLE LEATHER: Prepare about 1 quart ofchopped apples,
removing cores, but not skins. Place just enough water in the
blender, with a few apple chunks to get started. Keep adding apples
until consistency of good applesauce. Spread out onto fruit leather
tray, or tray covered with plastic wrap. Dry until solid and slightly
'sticky'. Remove from tray, roll in plastic wrap. APPLE BUTTER
LEATHER: To the apples in the blender, add 2 tbsp cider vinegar or
lemon juice, 2 tsp mixed spices (pumpkin pie spice, cinnamon,
allspice, etc) and 1/4 cup honey, or to taste.  Continue to dry as in
basic recipe. APPLE RAISIN (or DATE) LEATHER: Soak one cup raisins
(or chopped dates) until soft, in water to cover.  Blend with the
soaking liquid, add apple chunks until consistency islikethick
applesauce.  Proceed as in basic recipe. APPLE FRUIT COMBINATION
LEATHERS:  Start with a 1 to 1 ratio, and adjust to your own taste.
Try blending apples with pitte prunes, dates, plums, peaches,
apricots, bananas, and berries... try them all!.  If it tastes good
in the blender, it will taste good as a leather. Blend juicier fruits
first and no water may be needed to start the blending process.
Banana's require no water to blend.  You may wish to blend 'seedy'
berries alone, then strain and return to blender before adding the
apples, but remember that seeds are an excellent concentrated food.
While making these leathers, don't forget that the unfinished product
(blended fruit) can be an excellent food source in itself.  Try
sprinkling a few nuts on top of a bowlful of 'sauce' for a wonderful
breakfast. Origin: Dry it - You'll Like It, circa 1973. Shared by:
Sharon Stevens, Jan/95.

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   01-22-95

