Title: Dr.Rennarad's Cold Cure Chicken Soup
Categories: Soup/stew, Chicken, Vegetable, Sweetpotato
Yield: 16 servings
12 lg Carrots, peeled and halved,
(2 lbs)
6    Celery stalks, halved
1    Bunch Parsley, trimmed of
-stems
Salt and freshly ground
-pepper to taste
1    Stewing chicken (abt 4 lbs),
-preferably whole (*)
3 lg Onions, peeled and halved
1 lg Sweet potato, peeled and
-halved
3    Parsnips, peeled and halved
2    Turnips, peeled and halved
Put chicken in a very large pot and add water to cover.  Bring to a
boil and add the root vegetables.  Simmer for 1 hour.  Add the celery
and parsley and simmer 90 minutes, or until the vegetables are very
soft. Remove the chicken (reserving for another purpose).  Drain the
vegetables into a colander, saving all the broth.  In a food
processor, puree the vegetables.  Return the puree to the broth.
Skim off the fat before serving.  (To make fat removal easy, chill
the soup, skim and then reheat to serve.  Add matzoh balls if you
like.  Makes about 16 cups.

(*) A stewing chicken, sometimes marked "hen", makes the best soup.
It's often in the supermarket's frozen poultry section.  If you can't
find one substitute a roasting chicken, or as a last resort, a fryer.

NOTE:  Leave the chicken whole and vegetables in large chunks to make
them easier to separate after cooking.

THE DOCTOR'S PRESCRIPTION:  Freeze the soup in small containers and
use it when a cold strikes.

THE ACTUAL THERAPEUTIC AGENT?   Dr. Renard suspects the ingredients,
after prolonged cooking interact to boost the cold-fighting effect.
Tests made at the University of Nebraska Medical Center in Omaha
found that the soup blocked the movement of inflammatory white cells
(neutrophils) in lab tests.  That's important because cold symptoms -
coughs, congestion, malaise - often are dut to inflammation produced
when neutrophils migrate to the bronchial tubes and accumulate there.
Chicken soup seems to prevent this.  And the soup worked even when
diluted 200 times. "This may explain why even one bowl of chicken
soup helps stop symptoms," Rennard says.

