Title: Dried Apple "Pour-Through" Pie
Categories: Dessert, Pie/tart, Apples
Yield: 8 servings
1/2 ts Cinnamon
1/4 ts Nutmeg; freshly grated
1 tb Lemon juice
2 tb Unsalted butter, cold;
Cut in bits
1 tb Milk
3 tb Heavy cream
1    Basic pastry dough for
Two-crust pie
1 qt Apple cider
3/4 lb Dried apples
1/4 c  Sugar, (plus 1 tbs or
More to taste)
1 tb Cornstarch
MMMMM------------------------***********-----------------------------
Sharp cheddar cheese
Vanilla ice cream or
Recipe by: From The Farmers' Market - ISBN 0-06-055005-8 1. Divide the
dough into two slightly unequal portions. Roll out the larger piece
on a floured surface to a thickness of 1/8 inch. Fit it into a deep
9- or 9 1/2-inch pie dish. Roll the smaller piece of dough to a
circle 1/8-inch thick and transfer it to a foil lined baking sheet.
Place the pastry dough in the refrigerator while you prepare the
filling. 2. Bring the cider to a boil in a large saucepan. Add the
dried apples and simmer, covered, until they are softened but not
mushy, 25 to 30 mins (timing may vary; add water to keep the apples
covered with liquid, if necessary). Drain the apples, reserving the
cider. 3. Preheat the oven to 425°F. Sift into a mixing bowl the 1/4
cup sugar, cornstarch, cinnamon, and nutmeg. Add the drained apples
and toss gently. Add 1/4 cup of the reserved cider (chill the
remainder for drinking) and the lemon juice, and toss again. Add more
sugar to taste. Pour the mixture into the pastry-lined pie dish,
mounding the apples in the center. Dot with butter; then lay the top
crust over loosely. Trim off excess pastry, leaving a 3/4-inch
border. Turn the edges under the edges of the bottom crust, forming a
smooth border on the rim of pie plate. Crimp or flute the border. 4.
Brush the pastry lightly with milk, then sprinkle with 1 Tbs sugar
for a light glaze. Cut several slashes in the top crust to release
steam. 5. Place the pie on a baking sheet and bake for 15 mins. Lower
the heat to 400°F and continue to bake until golden brown, about 30
mins longer. About 5 mins before the pie is done. Dribble the cream
into the slashes to the top crust, then bake 5 mins longer. 6. Cool
on a wire rack. Serve warm with vanilla ice cream or wedges of sharp
Cheddar.

NOTES : The "pour-through" crust is an old farm tradition, as is
making
pies with apples that have been dried for storage. The apples
in
this pie have a slightly firmer texture than fresh, with
intense,
concentrated flavor.

From:  Dan Klepach

