Title: Feijoada Completa (Brazil)
Categories: Beans, So. america, Soup/stew, Pork, Vegetable
Yield: 8 servings
3 md Tomatoes, peeled, seeded
-and coarsely chopped
(or substitute 1 cup
-chopped, drained, canned
Italian plum tomatoes)
2 ea Bottled tabasco peppers,
-drained, seeded and finely
Chopped
1 t  Salt
1/2 t  Freshly ground black pepper
5 lg Oranges, peeled and thinly
-sliced or cut into
Chunks
Farofa de manteiga (recipe
-follows)
Couve a mineira (recipe
-follows)
Molho de pimenta (recipe
-follows)
Arroz brasileiro (recipe
-follows)
1 ea 3-lb smoked beef tongue
1 lb Corned spareribs, if
-available
1/2 lb Jerked or dried beef, in
-one piece
1/2 lb Chorizo or other smoked
-spiced pork sausage
1/2 lb Fresh breakfast-type pork
-sausage
1 ea Fresh pig's foot, if
-available
3 1/2 ea Qts water
4 c  Dried black beans
1/4 lb Lean bacon, in one piece,
-with the rind removed
1 lb Lean beef chuck, in one
-piece
1/2 lb Canadian-style bacon, in
-one piece
2 T  Lard
1 1/2 c  Coarsely chopped onions
1 T  Finely chopped garlic
MMMMM-------------------------THE MEATS------------------------------
Place the tongue, spareribs and jerked beef in separate pots, and
cover the meats with cold water.  Soak them overnight. Precook the
meats in the following fashion: Drain the tongue, cover it with fresh
water, and bring to a boil over high heat. Partially cover the pan,
reduce the heat, and simmer for 2 1/2 hours. The tongue should be
kept covered with water; if it boils away, add more boiling water.
Remove the tongue from the water and let it cool slightly.  Then skin
it with a sharp knife, cutting away the fat, bones and gristle at its
base. Drain the jerked beef, cover it with fresh water and bring to a
boil. REduce the heat and simmer uncovered for 30 minutes; drain and
set aside. Drain the spreribs, add the smoked sausage, fresh sausage
and pig's foot, and cover with fresh water. Bring to a boil, reduce
the heat to low, and simmer uncovered for 15 minutes. Drain and set
the meats aside. The Beans: In a heavy 12-qt casserole or large soup
pot, bring 3 quarts of water to a boil over high heat. Drop in the
beans and boil them briskly for 2 minutes. Turn off the heat and let
the beans soak for 1 hour. Then add the peeled tongue, jerked beef,
spareribs, pig's foot and lean bacon.  Bring to a boil, reduce the
heat to low, cover and simmer for 1 hour.  Check the water in the pot
occasionally. It should cook away somewhat, leaving the beans moist
and slightly soupy; but if the beans get too dry, add some boiling
water. Preheat the oven to 250 degrees. TRansfer the tongue to a
large heat-proof platter, cover it with foil and place it in the oven
to keep warm.  Add the chuck to the pot, and continue cooking the
beans and meat for 1 hour.  Finally, add the smoked and fresh sausage
and Canadian bacon, and cook for 30 minutes. When the meats are
tender, remove them from the pot and place them in the oven on the
platter with the tongue.  Skim the fat from the surface of the beans
and remove the pot from the heat. The Sauce: In a heavy 8 to 10-inch
skillet, melt the lard over moderate heat. Add the onions and garlic,
and cook, stirring frequently, for 5 minutes or until the onions are
soft and transparent but not brown.  Stir in the tomatoes, tabasco
peppers, salt and black pepper, and simmer for 5 minutes.  With a
slotted spoon, remove 2 cups of beans from the casserole and add them
to the skillet. Mash them thoroughly into the onion mixture,
moistening them with 2 cups of the bean liquid as you mash.  Stirring
occasionally, simmer the sauce over low heat for 15 minutes, or until
it becomes thick. With a rubber spatula scrape the sauce into the pot
and cook over low heat, stirring occasionally, for 20 minutes. To
Assemble: With a large, sharp knife, slice the beef tongue, jerked
beef, lean bacon, chuck, Canadian bacon, spareribs and pig's foot
into serving pieces, and separate the smoked and fresh sausages.
Transfer the beans to a serving bowl.  TRaditionally, all the meats
are presented on one large, heated platter with the sliced tongue in
the center, the fresh meat on one side, the smoked meats on the
other. Present the beans, farofa, couve, molho, arroz and orange
slices in separate bowls or platters. Serves 8 - 10. From: FOODS OF
THE WORLD: LATIN AMERICAN COOKING, Time-Life, New York. 1968. From
the files of Karin Brewer

Submitted By KARIN BREWER   On   01-02-95

