Title: Gelbe Erbsensuppe, Auf Berliner Art (Berlin Yellow Pea So
Categories: German, Soup/stew, Main dish, Vegetable
Yield: 6 servings
-thick slices
OR
Combine some ham & bacon
2 tb Butter
OR
3 tb Rendered bacon fat
2 tb Flour
2 lg Potatoes, peeled and cubed
1/2 ts Marjoram
1/2 ts Thyme
Salt and pepper to taste
1/2 lb Whole dried yellow peas
(If you cannot find them
-whole, yellow split peas
-will do)
2 qt Water
Smoked ham bone with some
-meat on it
OR
Smoked ham butt
OR
1/2 lb Bacon, smoked and cut in
MMMMM----------------POT VEGETABLES/SOUP GREENS *---------------------
MMMMM----------------------ALL FINELY DICED---------------------------
-trimmed off (wash
-thoroughly under running
-water to remove sand)
1 lg Onion, peeled
3    Parsley sprigs
1 sm White turnip, peeled
(optional for use at own
-discretion because of
-powerful and pervasive
-flavor)
1 lg Carrot
1    Stalk celery with leaves
1 sm Knob celeriac; trim off
-straggly roots, peel
-and rinse
1 sm Parsnip, scraped and cut in
-half lengthwise
1    Petrouchka (parsley root),
-scraped
1    Leek with most green leaves
* These vegetables and greens lend a rich savory frangrance and
flavor to German broths and soups.  When a recipe calls for pot
vegetables, use the selections above.  If any items are unavailable,
eliminate them.  For best results, try to use them all.  Add as
directed im specific recipes.

Rinse peas and soak in water to cover overnight, unless on package
say no soaking is necessary.  Put in a 4-quart pot with 2 quarts
water, using whatever is left of soaking water, and adding additional
amounts, if necessary.  Add ham or bacon and bring to a boil.  Cover,
reduce heat and simmer 1 hour.  Heat butter or bacon fat in skillet;
add diced vegetables and cook slowly until a deep golden color.
Sprinkle with flour and stir until it is absorbed and browned.  Add
flour-vegetable mixture to soup along with potatoes, marjoram, thyme,
salt and pepper.

Simmer, covered, for 1 hour, or until peas are soft enough to eat,
but not entirely dissolved.  They should retain some of their shape.
Do not strain or puree.  Remove ham or bacon and cut into small
pieces and return to soup.  Discard bone if you have used one.  If
you want to use smoked sausage or frankfurter as a garnish, slice and
heat in soup.

