Title: Great Grilled Vegetables
Categories: Information, Bbq/grill, Vegetable
Yield: 1 info  Sweet Bell Peppers: Core, seed and quarter the bell pepper. Lightly
brush both sides with oil and set skin-side down over the hot fire.
Grill until the skin is blistery and black, 3 to 4 minutes. Turn and
continue grilling until tender, 2 to 3 minutes longer. The blistery
skin can easily be removed and discarded before serving.

Fennel Bulb: Trim the stalk from the bulb, leaving the core intact.
Cut the bulb in half, then in thin wedges, taking care that for each
piece you cut through the core, which will hold it together while it
cooks. Brush lightly with oil and grill over the hot fire until
browned and beginning to soften, 8 to 10 minutes, turning once or
twice. If the fennel browns before it begins to soften, move it to
the outer edge of the fire to continue cooking.

Garlic: Remove most of the papery skin from a whole head of garlic and
leave the cloves intact. Place the garlic head near the edge of the
fire, over moderate heat, and grill, turning occasionally, until
aromatic and the cloves are soft, 20 to 30 minutes. The outside
should lightly brown but not char. Separate the cloves to serve; they
just need a pinch for the garlic to pop out.

Onions: Trim the onion and cut into «-inch rounds. Lay the rounds
flat and insert a wooden toothpick horizontally through the center of
the slice, at least to the middle of the onion. This will keep the
slice together as it cooks. Brush both sides lightly with oil and
grill over the hot fire until lightly browned and tender, 10 to 15
minutes, turning occasionally.

Corn: Corn can be grilled in a couple of ways. One is to peel back the
husks, leaving them attached at the bottom. Remove and discard the
"silk". Wrap the husks back around the corn and tie at the end with a
piece of corn husk or kitchen string. Soak the corn in cold water for
about 30 minutes, then drain well and shake out excess water. Grill
over medium-high heat, toward the edge of the grill, turning
occasionally, until the corn is tender, 15 to 20 minutes.

Potatoes: Cut a scrubbed potato in half lengthwise, then into roughly
1-inch wide sticks. Brush with oil right away (potato flesh darkens
when exposed to the air). Set the potato pieces toward the edge of
the fire, over moderate heat, and grill, turning occasionally, until
the outsides are browned and crisp and the insides are tender when
pierced with a fork, 20 to 25 minutes. Sprinkle with salt and serve.

Eggplant: Trim stem end from the eggplant and cut across into «-inch
rounds. Lightly brush both sides with oil and grill over the hot fire
until soft and lightly browned, 3 to 4 minutes. Turn and continue
grilling until the eggplant is tender and evenly colored, about 4
minutes longer. Small Japanese eggplants can be grilled whole; allow
10 to 12 minutes.

Mushrooms: Trim long stems from button mushrooms almost to the base
and wipe caps with a damp paper towel. Brush lightly with oil.
Mushrooms can be cooked loose on the grill or skewered to make
handling easier. Cook over the hot fore until tender, 3 to 5 minutes,
turning occasionally. other mushrooms are also delicious on the
grill, especially portabello mushrooms. Choose larger mushrooms, 5 or
6 inches across. They have an almost beefy texture and grill
fabulously. Discard stems, generously brush caps with a mixture of
olive oil and lemon juice, and grill until tender, about 10 minutes,
turning occasionally.

Simply Seafood Summer 1994
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   01-13-95

