Title: Grilled Turkey With Mustard-Honey Glaze
Categories: Poultry, Turkey, Bbq/grill, Main dish
Yield: 1 servings  GRILLED TURKEY WITH MUSTARD-HONEY GLAZE (and Variations) 1 turkey,
size to suit your needs (see yield below) 2 onions, peeled and cut
into quarters (use more for large turkey) 2 cups celery tops,
coarsely chopped 3 tablespoons butter, softened Salt and black pepper
Vegetable oil 1/4 cup honey 2 tablespoons Dijon-style mustard 2
tablespoons lemon juice 1/2 teaspoon salt Procedure: Remove the neck
and giblets from the bird; if desired reserve for gravy. Wash bird
thoroughly with cold water and pat dry, inside and out with paper
towels. In a small bowl mix together the onions, celery, butter, salt
and pepper. Place a handful of mixture into the neck cavity and pull
down skin, securing it with a small metal skewer.

Place the remaining onion mixture inside the cavity of the bird. Rub
entire surface of bird with vegetable oil. Sprinkle with salt and
pepper. Insert thermometer into the thickest part of the thigh,
making sure it is not resting on bone.

In a small bowl, prepare the glaze by combining honey, mustard, lemon
juice and salt. If you are grilling a large turkey, you will need to
double the amount of glaze. Set aside.

Grill turkey according to directions for indirect grilling method (see
directions above). Brush on mustard-honey glaze 30 minutes before
estimated completion of cooking. Cook to internal temperature of 185
degrees.

Presentation: Allow to stand 20 minutes before carving.

Yield: Figure 3/4 to 1 pound per person for a turkey under 12 pounds
and 1/2 to 3/4 pound per person for turkeys over 12 pounds.

SOY-HONEY GLAZE: Combine 2 tablespoons melted butter, 1/4 cup honey, 2
tablespoons lemon juice and 2 tablespoons soy sauce.

SWEET-SOUR APRICOT GLAZE: Combine 1/2 cup apricot preserves (mince
large pieces) and 4 tablespoons red-wine vinegar.

ORANGE-GINGER GLAZE: Combine 1/4 cup melted butter, 1/2 cup orange
marmalade, 1 teaspoon minced fresh ginger and 1 teaspoon grated onion
rind (zest). Shared in Cooking Conference
Submitted By FLORENCE THOMPSON   On   01-07-95

