Title: Halibut with Tortilla-Pi¤on Crust
Categories: Fish, Main dish, Salsa/sauce
Yield: 4 servings
Juice of 1 lime
-about 2 tbs
2    Eggs
1 tb Water
1/2 c  Flour
Cilantro sprigs
Lime wedges
1    Halibut steak (24 oz) OR
4    Halibut fillets (6 oz ea)
1/2 c  Pine nuts
Vegetable oil
12    Fresh corn tortillas *
1 tb Cilantro; finely chopped
1/4 ts Ground cumin
1/4 ts Salt
MMMMM---------------------------SALSA--------------------------------
4    Shallots
-peeled and halved
2 tb Balsamic vinegar
1/4 ts Brown sugar
1 tb Basil leaves; minced
1/2 c  Sun-dried tomatoes
-about 1 oz
-dry, not oil packed
8 oz Wild mushrooms
1/4 ts Salt
4 tb Extra-virgin olive oil
* substitute one 4« oz package of 12 taco shells for the fried
tortillas

Prepare the Wild Mushroom and Sun-Dried Tomato Salsa and set aside.

cut the halibut steak into 4 equal pieces; remove bones and skin. Set
aside. Preheat oven to 350øF. Scatter the pine nuts in a cake pan and
toast in oven until golden brown, 5 to 7 minutes, shaking the pan
occasionally so the nuts brown evenly. Don't overcook the nuts or
they will be bitter. Set aside.

Heat « inch oil in a wide skillet over medium-high heat. Fry the
tortillas, 1 or 2 at a time, until crisp. Drain on a rack over paper
towels and cool. Crumble the tortillas (or taco shells) into the
workbowl of a food processor; pulse until finely chopped. Add the
toasted pine nuts, cilantro, cumin, salt and lime juice. Pulse until
well blended.

In a small bowl, whisk together the eggs and water. Dredge the halibut
pieces in flour, then in the egg mixture. Coat completely with the
tortilla mixture. Heat « inch oil in a large skillet over medium-high
heat. Add the halibut and saut‚ until golden brown and cooked
through, 4 to 5 minutes per side for fish 1 inch thick. Let drain
briefly on paper towels, then transfer to individual plates. Spoon
the salsa alongside the fish and garnish with cilantro sprigs and
lime wedges.

Wild Mushroom and Sun-Dried Tomato Salsa:

Put the sun-dried tomatoes in a small dish, add boiling water to
cover and set aside for 25 to 30 minutes (or plump according to
package directions). Drain well and chop. Heat the charcoal grill
until the coals glow red with white ash around the edge.

Wash the mushrooms gently, drain  them and shake off as much water as
possible. While they are still damp, place in a bowl and sprinkle with
salt. Ad 2 tablespoons of the olive oil and toss well. Arrange the
mushrooms and shallots on skewers or use a fine-mesh grill rack. Grill
about 4 inches from the heat, turning frequently and brushing with
remaining oil, until the mushrooms are lightly browned and slightly
soft, about 8 minutes. Cool. Chop the mushrooms into « inch dice and
mince the shallots. Combine in a bowl with the sun-dried tomatoes,
vinegar, sugar and any remaining oil. The salsa can be made in
advance to this point and refrigerated in an airtight container. Add
the basil just before serving. Serve at room temperature.

Makes about 2 cups.

Note: instead of grilling the mushrooms over a charcoal fire, you can
cook them under the broiler in your oven.

Simply Seafood Winter 1995
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   01-19-95

