Title: Helpful Candy Hints
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 servings  * With a pastry brush, continuously brush cold water over the inside
walls of the pan of boiling syrup.  This cools the sides of the pan
and keeps sugar crystals from forming; don't stir the brush down into
the syrup. If butter is an ingredient of the candy recipe, buttering
the sides of the saucepan will also help prevent crystalization; if
not, it may affect the flavor.

* An inexpensive Chinese wooden rice paddle (often sold for use with
woks) is perfect for beating fondant syrup.

* Wearing a pair of latex gloves will allow you to begin puling taffy
or ribbon candy sooner without burning your fingers.

* Spray molds, marble, or forms with a light coating of vegetable
spray to prevent sticking and possibly breaking the candy.

* A candy thermometer that touches the bottom of the pan will register
temperatures inaccurately.  Adjust the clip on your thermometer to the
height of your pan before you start cooking, or hold the thermometer
in the center of the pan.

* Fruit juice will lighten in color and turn somewhat yellow on
cooking. A red juice will end up pink to orange, and purple juice
will look blue to green.  Orange, grapefruit, lemon, and lime juices
burn readily and thus are not recommended.

* Your pan should be clean, dry, free from scratches, and its capacity
about four times the volume of your ingredients.  Syrup will not cover
evenly in a pot that is too large and can boil over in one that's too
small.  A heavy-bottomed stainless steel or heavy-gauge aluminum pan
spreads the heat evenly.

* A marble slab, which costs $10 to $15, is ideal for candymaking,
but a chilled baking sheet is an adequate substitute.

* Weather and altitude can affect candy.  Make candy on a dry day when
humidity is low.  At high altitudes, cook candy to a slightly lower
temperature than at sea level--10 degrees less at 3,000 feet, or 16
degrees less at 7,000 feet.

* Frozen juice cans are perfect round sucker molds.  Cut off and
discard the bottom inch with the metal ring.  Hollow cookie cutters
also work well.

The Herb Companion December/January 1994/1995
Submitted By TIFFANY HALL-GRAHAM   On   01-01-95

