Title: Hot Peppered Chicken with Vegetables
Categories: Poultry, Asian, Chicken, Stir fry, Vegetable
Yield: 1 recipe
2 md Carrots; peeled and cut on
-the diagonal into 1/4-inch
-slices
3 tb Canola or vegetable oil
1 sm Onion; peeled and thinly
-sliced
1 lb Chicken breast
-boneless and skinless
2 tb Hot teriyaki sauce
-(see note)
1 tb Rice vinegar
30    Grinds fresh black pepper
1 lb Broccoli, cut into florets
MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
1 ts Sugar
1 tb Minced gingerroot
1 md Clove garlic; peeled and
-minced
3 tb Hot teriyaki sauce
1 tb Tamari or soy sauce
1 tb Rice vinegar
2 ts Cornstarch
1/3 c  Water
1. Cut the chicken into thin strips.  Combine 2 tablespoons hot
teriyaki sauce, vinegar and pepper.  Pour over the chicken and
refrigerate at least 1 hour, or overnight.

2. Bring a pan of water to the boil, add the broccoli and time 2
minutes. Remove with slotted spoon to a colander and rinse with cold
water until completely chilled.  Meanwhile bring the pan of water
back to the boil, add carrots and time 2 minutes.  Again chill with
cold water. Drain on paper towels.

3. For the sauce, whisk together the hot teriyaki sauce, tamari or soy
sauce, vinegar, cornstarch, water, sugar, ginger and garlic. Set
aside.

4. In a large heavy skillet or wok set over medium-high heat, add 1
tablespoon oil.  When hot, add half of the chicken and stir-fry just
until done.  Remove from the pan, add another tablespoon oil and
repeat with the remaining chicken.  Remove from the pan when done.

5. Heat the remaining tablespoon oil  Add the onion and stir-fry 1
minute. Add the broccoli and carrots; stir-fry 1 minute.  Remove from
the pan and add the sauce.  Boil until very thick.

6. Put the chicken and vegetables back into the pan, stirring until
coated, and serve.

Note: Chun King puts out a hot teriyaki sauce that can be found in
major supermarkets where Asian products are shelved.  If necessary,
substitute another bottled teriyaki sauce, and add 1/4 teaspoon hot
chili oil.

Makes 4 to 6 servings.

Data per serving (for 6 servings): Calories 208, Protein 22g, Fat 8g,
Carbohydrates 13g, Sodium 829mg, Saturated fat 1g, Monounsaturated
fat 4g, Polyunsaturated fat 3g, Cholesterol 44mg.

Printed in the January 25, 1995, issue of The Seattle Times. APB
Submitted By ALAN BURGSTAHLER   On   01-26-95

