Title: How to Adapt Favorite Recipes to Pressure Cooking
Categories: Diabetic, Information
Yield: 1 text file
MMMMM----------------------------TEST---------------------------------
Once you have become a skilled in the use of your pressure cooker,
you will want to adapt some of your own favorite recipes to pressure
cooking. Spending a few minutes in converting a pet recipe will pay
dividends in time saved ar you use the recipe over and over.  Recipes
for soups, poultry, seafood, vegetables and many combination foods
can easily be adapted to pressure cooking.  Here are the three
important things to determine and check.

1. AMOUNT OF LIQUID:  Use comparable recipes in this book as your
guide. In general, when preparing soups and braised meats, the amount
of water can be reduced form the traditional recipe because it allows
for water evaporation during the long cooking.  Therefore, vegetables
and mixtures including vegetables may need only small amounts of
water. At least 1/2 cup water is always add to the cooker for the
production of steam. 2. COOKING TIME. The length of time that a food
should pressure cooked is usually 1/3 (one-third) of the cooking time
given in your recipe. Do not start counting time until 15 lb pressure
has been reached and you lowered heat for cooking.

3. METHOD OF COOLING THE COOKER.  Whether you should cool the cooker
immediately or let pressure drop of its own accord depends on the
type of food being prepared.  Again, checking a similar recipe in
this book is helpful.  In general, large solid pieces of meat, like
roasts, should continue to cook while pressure drops by itself.   For
other foods, the cooker can be cooled right away and food served
immediately. Use the rack is another thing to decide upon in adapting
personal recipes to the pressure cooker.  When you want to blending
of flavors during cooking, place food in the cooking liquid (water,
broth, beer, etc.). When you wish to cook foods such as roasts out of
the liquid, place them on rack, above the liquid.  Some cooks like a
crisper exterior on their meats then is usually produced by the
pressure cooker. For a crisp outside, just broil meat a minute or two
after removing from the cooker.  In a high altitude areas, cooking
time should be increased 5% for every 1000 feet about the first 2000
feet. Pressure Cooking is Pleasure Cooking by Patricia Phillips
Brought to you and yours via Nancy O'Brion and her Meal-Master.
Submitted By NANCY O'BRION   On   01-13-95

