Title: Keftedakia (Tiny Meatballs Flavored with Ouzo & Mint)
Categories: Middle east, Greek, Ground beef, Appetizer, Meatballs
Yield: 30 meatballs
1    Egg
1 tb Mint, fresh; finely cut or
;1 ts crumbled dried mint
1/2 ts Garlic; finely chopped
1/2 ts Dried oregano; crumbled
1 ts Salt
Black pepper; freshly ground
1 c  Flour
2 sl White bread; homemade type,
;trimmed of crusts and torn
;into small pieces
1/4 c  Ouzo; or other anise flavor
;liqueur
7 tb Olive oil
1/2 c  Onion; finely chopped
1 lb Hamburger; lean
Soak the bread in the ouzo for at least 5 minutes.  Meanwhile, in a
heavy 10 to 12 inch skillet, heat 3 tablespoons of the olive oil over
moderate heat until a light haze forms above it.  Add the onions and,
stirring frequently, cook for about 5 minutes, or until they are soft
and transparent but not brown.  With a slotted spoon, transfer the
onions to a large, deep mixing bowl.  Set the skillet aside off the
heat.
Squeeze the bread dry and discard the ouzo.  Add the bread, ground
beef, egg, mint, garlic, oregano, salt and a few grindings of pepper
to the onions.  Knead vigorously with both hands, then beat with a
wooden spoon until the mixture is smooth and fluffy.  Taste for
seasoning.
Moistening your hands periodically with cold water, shape the beef
mixture into balls about 1 inch in diameter.  Then roll the balls in
flour to coat them lightly, and refrigerate for about 1 hour.
Preheat the oven to 200 degrees (F).  Add the remaining 4
tablespoons of oil to the oil in the skillet and heat over high heat
until a light haze forms above it.  Drop 7 or 8 meatballs into the
hot oil and cook them over moderate heat for 8 to 10 minutes, shaking
the pan from time to time to roll the balls about and to brown them
evenly. Transfer the meatballs to a heatproof platter with a slotted
spoon, and keep them warm in the oven while you fry the remaining
balls in similar fashion. Add more oil to the pan if necessary. Serve
keftedakia hot as part of a meze platter or as a first course.

17 of 116

Source: Time Life Series: Middle Eastern Cooking  "circa '69"

MMed by: earl.cravens@salata.com
Submitted By EARL CRAVENS   On   01-08-95 (1625)

