Title: Kentucky Stack Cake
Categories: Cake/cookie, Apples, Herbs/spice
Yield: 10 servings
1 t  Baking soda
1 t  Ground ginger
1/2 t  Salt
1 c  Buttermilk
1 c  Shortening
1 c  Sugar
1 ea Egg
1 c  Light molasses
3 c  All-purpose Flour
MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
2 t  Cinnamon
1/2 t  Allspice, ground
1/4 t  Cloves, ground
1/4 t  Mace, ground
1 lb Dried apples
6 1/2 c  Water
1 c  Sugar
1/2 c  Firmly packed Browned sugar
3 T  Butter
Preheat oven to 350 degrees.  Grease two 9 inch round cake pans. Line
bottoms with waxed paper.  Beat shortening and sugar together at
medium speed for seven minutes.  Beat in egg, then molasses.  Combine
flour, baking soda, ginger and salt.  At low speed, alternately beat
flour mixture and buttermilk into shortening mixture until blended;
do not overbeat. Spoon into prepared pans equally. Bake cakes in
preheated, 350 degree oven until browned and tops spring back when
lightly touched (25 to 30 minutes). Transfer pans to rack to cool
completely. Turn out cakes. Wrap in plastic wrap and let stand at
room temperature overnight. To prepare filling, combine apples and 6
cups water in large Dutch oven. Simmer, uncovered, 35 to 45 minutes
until water is completely absorbed and apples are very tender.  Stir
occasionally to prevent scorching. If necessary, add more water.
Mash with potato masher until lumpy. Stir in sugars, butter,
cinnamon, allspice, cloves and mace. Cook, stirring, 5 minutes.
Transfer mixture to storage container. Cool. Refrigerate overnight.
Two days before serving, assemble cake.  Cut layers in half
horizontally. Place layer on serving plate.  Spread one-third filling
over top. Top with another cake layer.  Repeat layering twice more,
ending with with cake layer. Cover with plastic wrap.  Chill for two
days. One hour before serving, sprinkle with confectioners' sugar.
Serve with whipped dream.

per serving:
Approx. Cook Time: Cholesterol per
Calories
grams per serving:
serving: Marks:

Submitted By MARY SMITH   On   01-14-95

