Title: Khoresh Bademjan (Braised Lamb and Eggplant)
Categories: Middle east, Iran, Vegetable, Lamb
Yield: 4 servings
;or 2 cups water
2 tb Tomato paste
1/2 ts Turmeric
Black pepper; freshly ground
1 md Tomato; cut crosswise into
;4 slices
2 tb Lemon juice, fresh
1 tb Pomegranate syrup; bottled,
;optional
1 md Eggplant; 1 to 1 1/2 pounds
1/4 c  Salt
1 ts Salt
3/4 c  Olive oil
1 md Onion; peeled and cut into
;1/4 inch slices
1 1/2 lb Lamb shoulder, lean, and
;boneless, cut into 2 inch
;cubes
2 c  Beef stock; fresh or canned
With a large, sharp knife peel the eggplant and cut off its stem
end. Slice the eggplant lengthwise into quarters, then cut the
quarters lengthwise in half to make 8 long strips.  Combine 1 quart
of water and 1/4 cup of the salt in a shallow bowl or baking dish,
add the eggplant and turn the strips about with a spoon to moisten
them thoroughly with the brine. Soak at room temperature for about 10
minutes.
Meanwhile, in a heavy 12 inch skillet, heat 1/2 cup of olive oil
over moderate heat until a light haze forms above it.  Add the onions
and, stirring frequently, cook for about 10 minutes, or until they
are deeply browned.  Then transfer them with a slotted spoon to a
plate and set aside.
Drain the eggplant strips through a sieve and pat them dry with
paper towels.  Heat the oil remaining in the skillet over high heat.
Add the eggplant strips and brown them thoroughly on both sides,
adding more oil to the pan if necessary.  Transfer the strips to a
plate and set aside. Brown the lamb cubes well in the same pan, again
adding more oil if needed. Then add the stock or water, tomato paste,
turmeric, the remaining teaspoon of salt, and a few grindings of
pepper. Bring to a boil over high heat, meanwhile scraping in the
brown particles clinging to the bottom and sides of the pan.  Add the
reserved onions, reduce the heat to low, and simmer tightly covered
for 45 minutes.
Arrange the strips of eggplant side by side on top of the lamb and
place the tomato slices over them.  Pour in the lemon juice and the
pomegranate syrup if you are using it.  Cover tightly again and
simmer for about 45 minutes longer, or until the eggplant and lamb
are tender.
Taste for seasoning and serve at once from a deep heated platter or
bowl. Khoresh bademjan is traditionally accompanied by chelo.

36 of 116

Source: Time Life Series: Middle Eastern Cooking  "circa '69"

MMed by: earl.cravens@salata.com
Submitted By EARL CRAVENS   On   01-14-95

