Title: Kringler (Danish Pretzel-Shaped Breads)
Categories: Nuts/grains, Bread, European, Holiday
Yield: 2 breads
MMMMM------------------SERVINGS: MAKES 2 BREADS-----------------------
MMMMM----------------SOURCE: GOURMET MAGAZINE, AP---------------------
The Danish multilayered kringler are a culinary triumph, sublime the
year round. This almond, macaroon-filled version, from the Reinhard
Van Hauen Bakery in Copenhagen, is especially prized on holidays. In
a small bowl proof 1 envelope active dry yeast in 1/4 cup lukewarm
water with 1 teaspoon sugar for 10 minutes. In a large bowl combine 2
eggs, 3 tablespoons sugar, and 1/2 teaspoon salt. Stir 1/2 cup
scalded milk into the mixture and let the mixture cool until it is
lukewarm. Stir in the yeast mixture and gradually beat in 2 1/2 cups
flour, or enough to make a soft dough. Turn the dough out onto a
lightly floured surface and knead it for 10 minutes, or until it is
smooth and satiny. Sprinkle the dough with flour, wrap it in wax
paper, and chill it for 15 minutes. In a bowl beat together 1 1/2
sticks or 3/4 cup butter, softened and cut into bits, and 1/4 cup
flour until the mixture is well blended. Form the butter mixture into
a 6- by 11-inch rectangle with a metal spatula on a sheet of wax
paper and chill it until it is firm but not hard. Roll out the dough
into a 12-inch square on a lightly floured surface. Remove the wax
paper from the butter mixture and arrange the mixture in the center
of the dough. Fold the dough lengthwise over the butter from each
side, forming a 6- by 12-inch strip. Fold the top third of the strip
over the center and the bottom third over the top. Turn the folded
dough so that an open side faces you. With the rolling pin flatten
the dough with uniform impressions. Roll the dough from the center,
away from you, to within 1/2 inch of the edge. Reverse the strip on
the board, flouring as necessary, and again roll the dough away from
you to make a rectangle 8 by 16 inches. Brush off any excess flour
from the dough and fold the strip in thirds as before. This completes
2 turns. Make 1 more turn starting with an open side facing you, wrap
the dough in wax paper, and chill it for 30 minutes. Roll out the
dough into a 12- by 22-inch rectangle on a lightly floured surface
and cut it in half lengthwise. Make almond paste filling and spread
half of it down the center of each dough strip. Fold the dough
lengthwise over the paste from each side. Transfer each strip to a
lightly buttered baking sheet, seam side down, and form each one into
a pretzel shape. Flatten the shapes lightly with a rolling pin, cover
them with a tea towel, and let them rise for 30 minutes. Brush the
surfaces with 1 egg white, beaten until frothy, and sprinkle them
with sugar and 2 tablespoons sliced blanched almonds. Bake the
kringler in a preheated moderately hot oven (375-F.) for 25 minutes,
or until they are golden brown, and let them cool on a rack. ALMOND
PASTE FILLING: In a bowl cream together an 8-ounce tin almond paste
and 1/2 stick or 1/4 cup butter, softened. Beat in 2 egg yolks and
1/2 cup pulverized almond macaroons and combine the mixture well.

Submitted By SALLIE KREBS   On   12-26-94

