Title: Lambropsomo (Greek Easter Bread)
Categories: Bread, Breakfast, Holiday, Cheese/eggs, Greek
Yield: 1 loaf
MMMMM--------------------------SERVINGS-------------------------------
MMMMM----------------SOURCE: GOURMET MAGAZINE, AP---------------------
For the Greeks, Easter is without question the paramount holiday of
the year. A bounteous table is laid, and the fare includes a wide
array of first courses, the beloved roast lamb, and such desserts as
baklava and kourambiedes. Lambropsomo, the poetically named sweet
bread of the season, is served throughout the feast. As a bride I was
quickly introduced to this handsome round loaf, bejeweled with ruby
eggs strapped in place by golden crosses of dough. I usually serve it
as the highlight of our Easter brunch. In a small bowl proof 2
envelopes active dry yeast in 1/4 cup lukewarm milk with 1 teaspoon
sugar for 10 minutes. In a large bowl combine 1 stick or 1/2 cup
butter, softened and cut into bits, 2/3 cup sugar, 1 tablespoon
grated orange or lemon rind, and 1 teaspoon salt. Stir 3/4 cup
scalded milk into the butter mixture and let the mixture cool until
it is lukewarm. Stir in the yeast mixture and 4 eggs, lightly beaten.
Gradually beat in 4 1/2 cups flour, or enough to make a soft dough.
Turn the dough out onto a lightly floured surface and knead in about
1 1/2 cups more flour for 10 minutes, or until the dough is smooth
and satiny. Form the dough into a ball, put it into a buttered bowl,
turning it to coat it with the butter, and let it rise, covered, in a
warm place for 1 1/2 hours, or until it is double in bulk. Punch down
the dough. Pinch off a piece the size of a large egg and reserve it.
Form the remaining dough into a round loaf about 8 inches in diameter
and put it on a buttered baking sheet. Have ready 5 hard-boiled eggs
dyed scarlet with vegetable food coloring. Put 1 egg in the center of
the loaf and arrange the other eggs around the edge to form the tips
of a cross. Roll out the reserved dough into 10 thin strips about 4
inches long and cross 2 strips over each egg, pushing down the ends
of the strips to secure them to the loaf. Let the dough rise for 30
minutes, or until it is double in bulk. Brush the surface with 1 egg
white, lightly beaten, and bake the bread in a preheated moderately
slow oven (325-F.) for 50 to 55 minutes, or until it is browned.
Transfer the lambropsomo to a rack and serve it warm.

Submitted By SALLIE KREBS   On   12-26-94

