Title: Midya Dolmasi (Cold Steamed Mussels Stuffed (see dirs.))
Categories: Middle east, Turkish, Appetizer, Clam/oyster, Rice
Yield: 72 mussels
1/2 ts Ground cinnamon
1/4 ts Ground allspice
1 ts Salt
4 c  Water
72    Mussels; in their shells
1 c  Olive oil
3 c  Onion; finely chopped
1/2 c  Pine nuts; (pignolia)
1 1/2 c  Rice, long grain; raw
1/4 c  Dried currants
Name; Cold Steamed Mussels Stuffed with Rice and Pine Nuts

In a heavy 10 to 12 inch skillet, heat the oil over moderate heat
until a light haze forms above it.  Add the onions and, stirring
frequently, cook for 8 to 10 minutes, or until they are soft and
lightly browned. Stir in the pine nuts, cook for 2 or 3 minutes, then
add the rice, currants, cinnamon, allspice and salt.  Pour in 2 cups
of the water and bring to a boil over high heat, stirring constantly.
Reduce the heat to low, cover tightly and simmer for 20 minutes, or
until all the liquid has been absorbed by the rice.  Set aside off
the heat.
Meanwhile, scrub the mussels with a stiff brush or stainless steel
mesh scouring pad under cold running water.  With a small, sharp
knife, open them one at a time in the following fashion:  Holding the
mussel firmly in one hand, cut along the joint between the two
shells, starting at the broadest end and leaving them hinged together
at the narrow end. Carefully pry the mussel open and cut and pull off
the black ropelike tufts from the shell.
Place about 1 tablespoon on the stuffing mixture in each mussel,
close the shells and hold them firmly together by looping a short
length of string around the center two or three times, then tying it
tightly in place.
Arrange the mussels in two layers in a large, heavy casserole, pour
in the remaining 2 cups of water and bring to a boil over high heat.
Reduce the heat to low, cover tightly and steam for 20 minutes.
Remove the cover and let the mussels cool to room temperature in the
casserole.
Then remove the mussels from the casserole with a slotted spoon and
cut off the strings.  Discard the cooking liquid.  Arrange the
mussels on a large platter or individual serving plates and serve
chilled or at room temperature.

11 of 117

Source: Time Life Series: Middle Eastern Cooking  "circa '69"

MMed by: earl.cravens@salata.com
Submitted By EARL CRAVENS   On   01-06-95 (2058)

