Title: Mushroom-Filled Pirozhki
Categories: Ussr, Appetizer, Mushroom, Pastry
Yield: 42 servings
2 ts Sugar
4 1/2 c  All-purpose flour; to 5 cups
3    Eggs
1    Egg yolk
2 tb Water; cold
1    Active dry yeast packet;
-or 1 cake
1/4 c  Warm water
1/2 c  Butter; or margarine
1 c  Milk; warm
1 ts Salt
MMMMM----------------------MUSHROOM FILLING---------------------------
Pepper, to taste
Nutmeg, to taste
3 tb Dill or parsley, chopped
1/4 c  Sour cream, at room
-temperature
1/2 lb Mushrooms, fresh
1/2 c  Green onions with tops,
-chopped
3 tb Butter or margarine
Salt, to taste
Recipe by: The Eastern European Cookbook-ISBN 0-486-23562-9

Sprinkle the yeast into a large bowl and add warm water. After a min
or two stir to dissolve. (Use very warm water for dry yeast and
lukewarm water for cake yeast.) Put butter in milk and leave until
melted. Add butter and milk, with salt and sugar, to yeast. Stir in 1
cup of flour and then eggs, beating well after each addition. Add the
remaining flour, enough to make a soft dough. Turn out on a floured
board. Knead dough until smooth and elastic. Form into a ball and put
in a large greased bowl. Turn the dough over so it becomes greased on
all sides. Cover with towel and leave in a warm place to rise until
doubled in bulk, about 1 1/2 hrs. Punch down dough. Turn out onto a
floured board and knead until smooth and ellastic. Cut off small
pieces of dough and flatten into thin circles, about 2 1/2 inches in
diameter. Place about 1 tsp of mushroom filling in the center of each
circle. Bring up the dough around the filling to secure completely
and shape into a smooth round. Place on a greased cookie sheet. Let
rise, covered with a light cloth or towel, in a warm place for 20
mins, or until pirozhki are light and somewhat larger. Mix the egg
yolk with the water and brush the tops with it. Bake in a preheated
hot oven (400°F.) for about 20 mins., or until the tops are golden
and the dough is baked. Serve warm. Makes about 3 1/2 doz.

MUSHROOM FILLING:

Clean mushrooms by rinsing quickly or wiping with wet paper towels.
Cut off any tough stem ends. Chop finely. Saute chopped green onions
in butter until tender. Add chopped mushrooms and saute 4 mins.
Season with salt, pepper and nutmeg. Remove from heat and stir in
dill and sour cream. Let cool.

NOTES:  Small oval or round plump pastries made with nonsweet dough
and
filled with various food combinations are called pirozhki.
:
The
term is derived from an old Russian word, PIR, meaning feast.
Pirozhki are made with both raised dough and plain pastry, and
can be filled with mixtures based on mushrooms, cabbage,
:
:
:
chicken,
ground beef or fish.  Pirozhki are popular appetizers and also
served with soups.  Generally, those that will be used with
:
:
soups
are made a little larger, about 5-inches in diameter.
:

From:  Dan Klepach

