Title: Paasiaisleipa (Finnish Easter Bread)
Categories: Bread, Herbs/spice, Holiday, Nuts/grains, European
Yield: 1 loaf
MMMMM--------------------------SERVINGS-------------------------------
MMMMM----------------SOURCE: GOURMET MAGAZINE, AP---------------------
Finnish housewives turn out wholesome breads as agilely as they weave
vibrant rya rugs. Their holiday loaf is traditionally baked in a milk
pail: It symbolizes the abundance of dairy foods and the birth of
spring calves. Chewy with filberts and raisins, the bread appears
like an overgrown mushroom when turned out of its pan.
First-of-the-season strawberries, sweet butter, and cheeses such as
Camembert, Brie, and Gruyere are ideal accompaniments. In a small
bowl proof 2 envelopes active dry yeast in 1/2 cup lukewarm water
with 1 teaspoon sugar for 10 minutes. In a large bowl combine 1 1/2
sticks or 3/4 cup butter, softened and cut into bits, 3/4 cup sugar,
2 teaspoons each of grated lemon and orange rind, and 1 teaspoon each
of salt and ground cardamom. Stir 2 cups scalded milk into the butter
mixture and let the mixture cool until it is lukewarm. Stir in the
yeast mixture and 4 egg yolks, lightly beaten. Gradually beat in 4
cups flour, or enough to make a soft dough, and beat the dough for 5
minutes. Turn the dough out onto a lightly floured surface and knead
in about 3 cups flour for 10 minutes, or until the dough is smooth
and satiny. Form the dough into a ball, put it into a buttered bowl,
turning it to coat it with the butter, and let it rise in a warm
place, covered, for 1 1/2 hours, or until it is double in bulk. Punch
down the dough, press in 3/4 cup each of raisins and chopped filberts
or almonds, and lightly knead the dough to just incorporate them.
Form the dough into a ball and put it into a buttered round 4-quart
baking dish. Butter the top lightly and let the dough rise in a warm
place, covered, for 45 minutes, or until it is double in bulk. Bake
the bread in a preheated moderately slow oven (325-F.) for 1 hour, or
until it is browned and sounds hollow when it is tapped. Let the
bread cool in the dish on a rack and turn it out. In a small bowl
combine 1/2 cup confectioners' sugar, sifted, 1 1/2 teaspoons milk,
and 1 or 2 drops of almond extract, or to taste, and spread the glaze
over the bread, letting it drizzle down the sides. Cut the bread into
quarters and then into crosswise slices.

Submitted By SALLIE KREBS   On   12-26-94

