Title: Pane Co' Santi - Nut Bread for All Saints Day
Categories: Italian, Herbs/spice, Bread, Nuts/grains, Holiday
Yield: 1 loaf
MMMMM----------------KEYWORDS: NUTS, ORANGE, RAIS---------------------
MMMMM-------------------SERVINGS: MAKES 1 LOAF------------------------
Source: The Fine Art of Italian Cooking, by Giuliano Bugialli ISBN
0-8129-1838-X From: Sallie Krebs Pane co' santi or dei santi is, as
the name suggests, originally for All Saints' Day, November 1
(American Halloween is All Saints' Eve). This bread exists in a
nonsweet version, given here, but is also made with sugar as a
dessert. Made with both walnuts and almonds, its fascinating
combination of ingredients, combining flavors associated with sweets,
such as anise, with a shocker like black pepper, reveals the medieval
palate. Pane co' santi is, however, still very much alive. FOR THE
SPONGE (FIRST RISING) 2 ounces (4 cakes) compressed 1 1/2 cups
unbleached all-purpose fresh yeast or 4 packages flour active dry
yeast 1 cup lukewarm or hot water, depending on the yeast FOR THE
DOUGH (SECOND RISING) 4 ounces raisins Pinch of salt 4 ounces
walnuts, shelled and    Grated peel of 1/2 orange blanched 1 teaspoon
1 teaspoon freshly ground
aniseed 1 cup olive oil
black 2 tablespoons (1 ounce) lard or    pepper sweet butter 3/4 cup
lukewarm water 2 ounces almonds, blanched 6 cups unbleached
all-purpose flour PREPARE pane co' santi with the ingredients listed,
according to the directions for sweet bread for All Saints' Day on
page 608. DIRECTIONS FOR SWEET BREAD FOR ALL SAINTS' DAY: To make the
"sponge", dissolve the yeast in the lukewarm or hot water. Place the
flour in a bowl and make a well in the center. Pour in the thoroughly
dissolved yeast and stir very well with a wooden spoon to incorporate
all the flour. Cover the bowl with a cotton dishtowel and place it in
a warm place, away from drafts. Let the sponge rise until doubled in
size (almost 1 hour). Meanwhile, soak the raisins in lukewarm water
for 20 minutes; chop the blanched walnuts coarsely. Heat the olive
oil and lard in a saucepan, over low heat. Add the chopped walnuts
and saute very gently, then remove the pan from the heat and add the
soaked, drained raisins. Allow to cool for 10 minutes. While the
walnut-raisin mixture is cooling, chop the blanched almonds coarsely.
When the sponge is ready, place the 6 cups of flour on a pasta board.
Make a well in the center and place the sponge in it. To the sponge,
add the lukewarm walnut-raisin mixture and stir carefully with a
wooden spoon, in order to integrate the sponge and olive oil. Then
mix into the sponge one by one: a pinch of salt, the sugar, grated
lemon and orange peel, aniseed, coarsely chopped almonds, and pepper.
Add the 3/4 cup lukewarm water and incorporate it with the other
ingredients in the well. Start kneading, little by little absorbing
the flour. After almost all the flour is absorbed, keep kneading
until the dough is elastic and smooth (about 15 to 20 minutes). Place
dough on a buttered and floured baking sheet. Cover the dough with a
cotton dishtowel and move the baking sheet and dough to a warm place,
without drafts, to rise. Preheat the oven to 400-F. When the dough
has doubled in size (1 to 2 hours), place it in the preheated oven
for 50 to 55 minutes. Remove from the oven and allow to cool for
about 2 hours before eating.

Submitted By SALLIE KREBS   On   12-28-94

