Title: Persimmon Pudding with Lemon-Orange Curd - Country Living
Categories: Dessert, Fruit, Pudding
Yield: 4 servings
MMMMM---------------------PERSIMMON PUDDING--------------------------
1/4 c  Milk
1/4 c  Buttermilk
1/2 t  Lemon juice
1/2 c  Persimmon puree
Lemon-Orange Curd (recipe
-follows)
Confectioners' sugar (opt.)
Persimmon strips (opt.)
1/2 c  Unsifted cake flour
1/4 t  Baking soda
1/4 t  Ground cinnamon
1/4 t  Salt
1/3 c  Granulated sugar
2 T  Butter, softened
1    Large egg
1/4 t  Vanilla extract
1/4 t  Grated lemon rind
1. Prepare Persimmon Pudding: In small bowl, sift together flour,
baking soda, cinnamon, and salt; set aside. Grease four 6-oz custard
cups. In medium-size bowl, with electric mixer, beat granulated sugar
and butter until light and fluffy. Add the egg, vanilla, and lemon
rind; beat until well combined.

2. Heat oven to 350'F. Fold flour mixture into butter mixture
alternately with milk and buttermilk. Stir lemon juice into persimmon
puree and fold into batter until just blended-do not ovennix.

3 Divide batter among custard cups; bake 35 to 40 minutes.or until
centers spring back when gently pressed with fingertip. Cool puddings
in custard cups on wire rack 10 minutes. Cover and refrigerate until
ready to serve.

4. Prepare Lemon-orange Curd.

5. To serve, spoon some of Lemon-Orange Curd onto 4 dessert plates.
Un- mold persimmon puddings and place one in center of each plate.
Dust with confectioners' sugar and garnish with persimmon strips, if
desired.

Lemon-Orange Curd: In small, heavy-bottomed, stainless-steel saucepan,
combine 1/4 C  orange juice, 2 T lemon juice, 2 T  grated orange
rind, 1 T grated lemon rind, 2 large egg yolks, and 1 large egg; mix
well. Add 3 T butter, chopped, and cook over low heat, stirring
constantly, until mixture thickens slightly and coats a spoon. Do not
heat to boiling or mixture will curdle. Strain into small bowl; cover
and refrigerate until ready to serve.

THE LARK CREEK INN Country Living/Dec/90 Scanned & fixed by DP and GG
Submitted By LAWRENCE KELLIE   On   01-08-95

