Title: Putiza (Coiled Yeast Bread with Chocolate Nut Filling)
Categories: Bread, Chocolate, Holiday, Nuts/grains, European
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM-------------------SERVINGS: MAKES 1 LOAF------------------------
MMMMM----------------SOURCE: GOURMET MAGAZINE, 02---------------------
MMMMM---------------------FROM: SALLIE KREBS--------------------------
Putiza can also be found in cookbooks from Yugoslavia and
Czechoslovakia. The etymology of both putiza and gubana shows the
Slavic influences on the Trieste dialect. Potica (the Slavic
spelling) is thought to be a contraction of potivica, from potive
("rolled," "wrapped up"). Putiza is excellent with tea; people in
this region offer it when visitors stop by for a caffe or grappino.
And Simone also suggests sprinkling the slices with a little more
grappa or slivovitz. FOR THE FILLING: 1 3/4 cups coarsely chopped
almonds 1 3/4 cups coarsely chopped walnuts 3/4 cup plus 2
tablespoons golden raisins 2/3 cup pine nuts 3/4 cup sugar 1/2 cup
unsweetened cocoa powder 1 3/4 cups fresh bread crumbs 3/4 cup
Marsala FOR THE DOUGH: 2 teaspoons active dry yeast 1/2 cup milk plus
additional if necessary 2 cups unbleached all-purpose flour plus
additional if necessary 3 tablespoons sugar 3/4 teaspoon coarse salt
1 1/2 teaspoons freshly grated lemon zest 2 large eggs 3/4 teaspoon
vanilla 1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter, cut into bits and
softened an egg wash made by beating: 1 large egg yolk with 1
teaspoon water sugar for sprinkling the loaf Make the filling: In a
bowl stir together the almonds, the walnuts, the raisins, the pine
nuts, the sugar, the cocoa powder, the bread crumbs, and the Marsala
until the mixture is combined well and let the filling stand,
covered, for at least 1 hour or overnight. Make the dough: In a small
bowl sprinkle the yeast over 1/4 cup of the milk, heated to lukewarm,
stir in 2 tablespoons of the flour and 1 tablespoon of the sugar, and
let the mixture stand in a warm place, covered, for 20 to 30 minutes,
or until the sponge is double in bulk. In a food processor pulse the
remaining flour a few times with the remaining 2 tablespoons sugar,
the salt, and the zest. Add the eggs, 1/4 cup of the remaining milk,
the vanilla, the butter, and the sponge and process the dough until
it is soft and somewhat sticky. (If the dough is too dry pour in
additional milk, if it is very sticky stir in additional flour, and
process the dough for 45 seconds.) On a lightly floured surface knead
the dough, incorporating additional flour if the dough becomes too
sticky to handle easily, for 6 to 8 minutes, or until it is smooth
and elastic, transfer it to a buttered bowl, turning it to coat it
with the butter, and let it rise, covered, in a warm place for 1 1/4
hours, or until it is double in bulk. (Alternatively, let the dough
rise, covered and chilled, overnight.) Punch down the dough, on a
lightly floured surface form it into a smooth ball, and let it stand,
covered, for 15 minutes. Roll the dough into a 16- by 11-inch
rectangle, spread it evenly with the filling, leaving a 1-inch border
on all sides, and, beginning with a long side, roll it up carefully
jelly-roll fashion, ending with the seam on top. Fold in the ends to
enclose the filling and, working very carefully, stretch the pastry
lengthwise from the center, forming a narrow filled cylinder, 24 to
26 inches long. Beginning with one end, wrap the pastry into a coil
and transfer it, seam side down, with spatulas to a buttered 9- or
10-inch cake pan or springform pan (the edge of the coil should come
to within 1 inch of the side of the pan but should not touch it; do
not tuck under the end of the coil). Let the loaf rise, covered with
a kitchen towel, in a warm place for 1 hour, or until it is almost
double in bulk. Brush the loaf with the egg wash, let it stand for 10
minutes, and sprinkle it lightly with the sugar. Bake the bread in
the middle of a preheated 375 F. oven for 40 to 45 minutes, or until
it is golden and sounds hollow when tapped, and let it cool in the
pan on a rack for 5 minutes. Remove the bread from the pan and let it
cool on the rack.

Submitted By SALLIE KREBS   On   12-07-94

