Title: Ratatouille a la Provence
Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
Yield: 10 servings
MMMMM-----------------VEGETARIAN GOURMET; JAN 95----------------------
1    Green bell pepper; julienned
1    Red bell pepper; julienned
Salt and pepper; to taste
1/2 c  Fresh parsley; chopped
3 tb Fresh dill; chopped
3 tb Nutritional yeast parmesan
2 tb Fresh basil; minced
6    Tomatoes
1    Eggplant; peeled
1 lg Zucchini
1/2 ts Salt
6 tb Flour
1/2 c  Extra virgin olive oil
1 lg Onion; diced
Immerse tomatoes in a pot of boiling water for about 30 seconds and
immediately transfer to a bowl of ice water with a slotted spoon.
Remove wh cool enough to handle. Slip off and discard skins.

Cut tomatoes in quarters, removing and discarding seeds. Chop pulp
and set aside.

Cut eggplant crosswise into 1/2" thick slices. Then cut each slice
into str about 1" wide. Set aside.

Quarter zucchini lengthwise, then cut crosswise into 1 1/2" lengths.

Place eggplant and zucchini in a colander sprinile with salt and toss
light Allow to drain for 30 minutes. Rinse and dry thoroughly with
paper towels. Sprinkle with flour and toss gently.

Heat 3 tablespoons oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat.
Saute half eggplant and zucchini until golden, about 2 minutes per
side. Transfer to a large plate. Repeat with remaining eggpland and
zucchini.

In the same skillet, saute onions, garlic and bell peppers in
remaining 2 tablespoons oil for 4 minutes. Add tomatoes, salt and
pepper and cook for about 5 minutes. Set aside.

Preheat oven to 350 degrees.

Combine remaining ingredients in a small bowl and set aside.

Place 1/3 of tomato-onion mixture in a large casserole dish. Top with
1/3 o the eggplant and zucchini slices and sprinkle with 1/3 of
herb-"parmesan" mixture. Continue layering, topping with
herb-"parmesan" mixture.

Cover and bake for 15 minutes. Uncover and bake until eggplant is
tender, about 45 minutes.

Serve hot, chilled, or at room temperature.

Per serving: 160 cal; 3 g prot; 153 mg sod; 13 g carb; 12  g fat; 2
mg; 0 chol; 44 mg calcium

Posted on GEnie Food & Wine RT Dec 22, 1994 by DEEANNE

Nutritional information per serving:  xx calories,   xx gm protein,
xx mg cholesterol,  xx gm carbohydrate,  xx mg sodium, x.x gm fiber,
xx gm fat ( x gm sat,  x gm mono,  x gm poly), x.x mg iron,  xx mg
calcium, x% of calories from fat.

Brought to you by MMCONV and Sylvia Steiger, GEnie THE.STEIGERS, CI$
71511,2253, Internet sylvia.steiger@lunatic.com, moderator of GT
Cookbook and PlanoNet Lowfat & Luscious echoes
Submitted By SYLVIA STEIGER   On   01-22-95

