Title: Salt-Rising Bread
Categories: Bread
Yield: 2 loaves
2 c  Milk, scalded and cooled to
Lukewarm
1/8 ts Baking soda
8 c  Sifted flour, approx.
4 tb Shortening or butter, at
Room temperature
2 ea Medium-sized potatoes,
Peeled and thinly sliced
2 tb Cornmeal
1/2 tb Sugar
1 ts Salt
2 c  Boiling water
1.  Place the potatoes, cornmeal, sugar and salt in a 3-quart bowl.
Add the boiling water and stir until the sugar and salt are
dissolved. Cover with plastic wrap or foil.  Set the bowl in a pan of
warm water over the pilot light of a stove, or where it will stay at
about 120 degrees, until small bubbles show in the surface, 24 hours
or longer.

2.  Remove the potatoes to a sieve and press out the excess moisture.
Add this liquid to the potato water still in the bowl.  Discard the
potatoes.

3.  Add the milk, baking soda, and 4 cups flour to the bowl.  Stir
until smooth.  Set the bowl again in the pan of warm water and let it
stand for about 2 hours, until the dough is almost doubled in bulk.

4.  Cut the shortening or butter into 1 cup of the remaining flour.
Add this to the dough.  Add enough additional flour, about 3 cups, to
make a moderately stiff dough.  Knead on a floured surface quickly
and lightly. Do not let the dough get cold.

5.  Return the dough to the bowl, grease the surface of the dough,
and let it rise for about 2 hours, until doubled in bulk.

6.  Turn the risen dough out on a lightly floured surface and shape
into 2 loaves.  Place in greased loaf pans (9 X 5 X 3 inches) and
grease the tops of the loaves.  Let rise again for about 2 hours,
until almost doubled in bulk or slightly above the tops of the pans.
Sprinkle the tops with cornmeal, if desired.

7.  About 15 minutes before the loaves have finished rising, preheat
the oven to 400 degrees.

8.  Bake the loaves for 15 minutes, then lower the oven temperature
to 350 degrees and bake for about 35 minutes longer, or until the
bread shrinks from the sides of the pans and is well browned.  Cool
on a rack.

Notes:  "Salt-rising bread is one of the greatest inventions, which I
think of as particularly Southern.  It smells and tastes a bit
"cheesey" and it is not to everyone's liking, but it makes excellent
sandwiches and toast. Because of the timing and temperature, it takes
a little practice to make a perfect loaf." -- Craig Claiborne

From Craig Claiborne's "Southern Cooking"

Typos by Wesley Pitts 1/1/95
Submitted By WESLEY PITTS   On   01-01-95

