Title: Shrimp Sate with Indonesian-Style Peanut Pasta
Categories: Crab/shrimp, Pasta, Asian, Bbq/grill
Yield: 4 servings
1 tb Brown sugar
1 lg Garlic clove; minced
8 oz Angel hair pasta
2    Green onions; thinly sliced
1 lg Red bell pepper
1 lg Yellow bell pepper
1 lb Medium shrimp
-peeled and deveined
2 tb Lime juice
MMMMM------------------------PEANUT SAUCE-----------------------------
1 1/2 ts Cornstarch plus
1/4 ts Coconut extract (opt)
2 tb Lime juice
2 tb Soy sauce
4 ts Brown sugar
1 pn To 1/8 tsp cayenne pepper
Salt
1 ts Vegetable oil
1/2 sm Onion; minced
2    Garlic cloves; minced
1/4 c  Peanut butter
-chunky or smooth
1 c  Coconut milk OR
1 c  Milk mixed with
If using bamboo skewers, soak them in a bowl of water for at least 1
hour before cooking to prevent them from burning under the broiler.

Core and seed the bell peppers, then cut them into 3.4- to 1-inch
squares. Thread the peppers onto 4 8-inch skewers.

Rinse the shrimp in cold water and pat dry. Thread the shrimp onto
eight 8-inch skewers, catching the broad and slender ends to form
alternating "Cs". Stir together the lime juice, brown sugar and
garlic and brush the mixture over the shrimp.

Make the Peanut Sauce: Heat the oil in a medium saucepan over
medium-low heat. Add the onion and garlic and stir until the onion is
tender, 3 to 5 minutes. Add the peanut butter and stir until it
softens. Gradually whisk in the coconut milk or milk, cornstarch
mixture until smooth; increase the heat and cook, stirring, until the
mixture bubbles and thickens. Remove from heat and stir in lime
juice, soy sauce, brown sugar, coconut extract (if using) and
cayenne. Add salt to taste. Cover to keep warm.

Preheat the broiler. Lay the skewers of peppers a few inches apart on
a lightly oiled broiler pan or baking sheet (foil-covered for easy
cleanup). Broil about 2 inches from the  heat, turning once, until
the edges are tinged with black, about 8 minutes per side. Transfer
the skewers to a plate and cover to keep warm.

Arrange the shrimp skewers on the same broiler pan. Broil about 3
inches from the heat, turning the skewers once, until the shrimp is
pink and just opaque in the center, 3 to 4 minutes total.

Meanwhile, bring a large pan of salted water to a boil. Add the angel
hair pasta and cook until tender, 4 to 5 minutes. Drain well. Add the
drained pasta to the peanut sauce and toss to coat.

Divide the pasta among four plates. Lay skewers of peppers and shrimp
across each serving and sprinkle with sliced green onions.

Simply Seafood Fall 1993
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   01-24-95

