Title: Sis Kebabi (Broiled Skewered Lamb)
Categories: Middle east, Turkish, Tomato, Lamb, Vegetable
Yield: 4 servings
;from the leg, trimmed of
;excess fat and cut into 2
;inch cubes
1 lg Tomato; firm, ripe, cut
;crosswise into 4 slices
1 lg Green pepper; cut into
;quarters, seeded & deribbed
2 tb Heavy cream
1 lg Onion; peeled and cut into
;1/8 inch slices & separated
;into rings
2 tb Olive oil
4 tb Lemon juice, fresh
2 tb Salt
1/2 ts Black pepper; freshly ground
2 lb Lamb, lean boneless; prefer
Drop the onion rings into a deep bowl and sprinkle them with the
olive oil, lemon juice, salt and pepper.  Add the lamb and turn the
pieces about with a spoon to coat them well.  Marinate at room
temperature for at least 2 hours, or in the refrigerator for 4 hours,
turning the lamb occasionally.
Light a layer of coals in a charcoal broiler and let them burn
until a white ash appears on the surface, or preheat a stove broiler
to its highest point.
Remove the lamb from the marinade and string the cubes tightly on 3
or 4 long skewers, pressing them firmly together.  Thread the tomato
slices and green pepper quarters alternately on a separate skewer. If
you are broiling the lamb in a stove, suspend the skewers side by
side across the length of a roasting pan deep enough to allow a 1
inch space below the meat.
Brush the meat evenly on all sides with the cream.  Broil 4 inches
from the heat, turning the skewers occasionally, until the vegetables
brown richly and the lamb is done to your taste.  For pink lamb,
allow about 10 minutes; for well done lamb, which is more typical of
Middle Eastern cooking, allow about 15 minutes.  Watch the vegetables
carefully; they will take less time to cook than the lamb and should
be removed when done.
Slide the lamb off the skewers onto heated individual plates. Serve
with pilav and the broiled tomato and green pepper.

35 of 116

Source: Time Life Series: Middle Eastern Cooking  "circa '69"

MMed by: earl.cravens@salata.com
Submitted By EARL CRAVENS   On   01-14-95

