Title: Soft-Shell Crabs and Linguine with Tomato-Herb Sauce
Categories: Pasta, Tomato, Crab/shrimp
Yield: 4 servings
-From: Sallie Krebs
-Source: p.36, FOOD & WINE
-June 1994
A dry, lean white is the best choice for these crabs- as well as for
the herb-enhanced pasta and the peppery salad. Try a racy Spanish
Sauvignon Blanc, such as 1992 Marques de Riscal.

2 large tomatoes (about 1 pound), coarsely chopped 1/4 cup plus 3
tablespoons olive oil 2 tablespoons finely chopped fresh basil 2
tablespoons finely chopped fresh flat-leaf parsley 2 tablespoons
finely chopped scallion green Salt and freshly ground pepper 3/4
pound dried linguine 1 tablespoon unsalted butter 8 cleaned medium
soft-shell crabs 1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice 2 teaspoons drained
capers, coarsely chopped Lemon wedges, for serving

1. Bring a large pot of salted water to a boil. In a medium bowl, mix
the tomatoes with 1/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons of the olive oil, the
basil, parsley, scallion, 1/4 teaspoon salt and 1/8 teaspoon pepper.
Set the tomato sauce aside at room temperature.

2. Add the linguine to the boiling water and cook, stirring
occasionally, until al dente, about 10 minutes. Drain and transfer to
a large bowl. Add 2/3 cup of the tomato sauce and toss to combine;
keep warm.

3. Melt the butter in the remaining 1 tablespoon oil in a large
nonreactive skillet. Add the crabs and cook over moderately high
heat, turning once, until reddish orange and slightly crisp, about 3
minutes per side. Transfer the crabs to a large serving plate and
keep warm in a low oven.

4. Add the remaining tomato sauce to the skillet with the lemon juice
and capers and bring to a gentle boil over moderate heat. Cook until
the tomatoes have just softened and the sauce is slightly reduced,
about 1 minute. Season with salt and pepper.

5. Divide the linguine among 4 large plates. Spoon the tomato-caper
sauce on top of the pasta. Set 2 soft-shell crabs on each mound of
linguine and serve with lemon wedges.

Date: 09-25-94
From: Sallie Krebs

