Title: Southwestern Grilled Chicken with Green Chiles
Categories: Chicken, Bbq/grill, Cheese/eggs, Chilies
Yield: 1 servings
1 cn Green Chiles
4 sl Monterrey Jack Cheese
3 oz Vegetable oil
Mild salsa
Marinade (see recipe)
This is an easy to prepare
-impressive change of pace
-for outdoor
Cooking.
4 ea Skinless Boneless Chicken
-Breasts
Sonoran Seasoning (You can leave it out, but we like it!!) Directions:
Place chicken in marinade for at least six hours. Slice green chiles
in half. Heat salsa to room temperature. Over medium hot coals,
prepare grill by brushing with vegetable oil to avoid sticking. Grill
chicken breasts for several minutes until nearly done, sprinkling a
pinch of Sonoran seasoning sparingly on each side of chicken. Place
half green chile on each breast and grill for 1 1/2 minutes. Add a
slice of cheese to each chicken breast and grill until just melted.
Remove chicken from heat and top with salsa. Serve with a cold pasta
or corn salad. Marinade 1/4 cup Italian Salad Dressing/and or Ceasar
Salad Dressing 1 1/2 tbs Red Wine Vinegar 2 tbs Cooking Sherry 1 tsp
or more Worcestershire Sauce minced garlic ( to taste) onion powder (
to taste) pepper ( to taste) Sonoran Seasoning This distinctive spice
blend is good on grilled seafood, meats and poultry. Makes about one
cup. 1 tbs Pure Chile Powder 6 tbs plus 1 1/2 tsp. salt (Optional or
may cut in half) 4 1/2 tsp Black Peppercorns 4 tsp Cumin Seeds 4 tsp
Granulated Garlic 1 tbs Chamomile* 1 tbs Granulated Onion 1 1/2 tsp
Paprika 3/4 tsp White Peppercorns 1 star anise point* 1/4 tsp.
(scant) dried orange bits* 1/4 tsp. (scant) dried orange blossoms*
pinch of cinnamon Preheat oven to 250F. Spread chili powder on small
baking pan. Bake until beginning to darken, 5 to 7 minutes, Combine
all remaining ingredients in blender. Grind finely. About one minute.
Store in jar. * Available at specialty shops and natural food stores.
If orange bits and dried orange blossoms are unavailable, substitute
1/4 tsp. orange spice tea.

Submitted By EARL SHELSBY   On   01-01-95

