Title: Steaming Techniques
Categories: Information, Asian
Yield: 1 info  For steaming, fish is set on a rack over (not touching) boiling water
in a covered pan. The steam circulates around the fish and evenly
cooks it with moist heat. Because the vapors attain high temperatures
and come in direct contact with the fish, it is a quick cooking
method. No added fat is needed and moisture from the steam helps to
maintain the succulence of the fish. You can infuse some delicate
flavors into the fish by adding aromatic ingredients to the water
such as ginger slices, crushed garlic, fresh herbs or onions.

Asian-style bamboo steamers are inexpensive and ideal for steaming
fish. You don't need a wok, although the slanted sides of a wok help
the steamer to sit firmly and securely. If you don't have a wok,
choose a pan over which the steamer fits securely. You can also steam
fish using an expandable steamer basket or even a wire cake rack that
fits inside your pan base. Be sure the rack will hold the fish at
least an inch above the water level so that the boiling water does
not come in direct contact with the fish.

Steaming is equally effective for thick and thin pieces of fish, and
even whole fish. Because the fish is arranged on a heatproof plate
before steaming, there is no need to turn or otherwise move the fish
and therefore there is little risk of potentially fragile pieces
breaking apart in cooking. It is also very easy to steam accompanying
vegetables directly on top of or alongside of the fish. Virtually any
fish can be steamed, but meaty fish such as tuna and swordfish are
less suited to this method. Count on about 10 minutes of cooking time
per inch thickness of the fish, but because steam heat is so hot, it
may be a little less.

How-to-Steam

1. Choose a broad, shallow pan with a steaming rack that fits snugly.
Be sure you also have a lid that will fit snugly over the steaming
pan.

2. Arrange the fish fillets on a heatproof plate that easily fits
into the steamer. Fold thin tail ends under so fillets are of even
thickness.

3. Sprinkle the fish with seasonings and aromatic vegetables.

4. Bring the water to a boil in the steamer, set the plate of fish on
the steamer rack, put the rack over the boiling water and cover
tightly with the lid.

5. Steam the fish until it is opaque through to the center of the
thickest part. Transfer the fish and vegetables to individual plates
and serve.

Simply Seafood Spring 1994
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   01-13-95

