Title: Veal Stock - Master Chefs
Categories: Soup/stew, Masterchefs, Veal, Vegetable
Yield: 2 quarts
-coarsely chopped
2 ea Celery, stalks, trimmed,
-coarsely chopped
1 ea Leek, trimmed, halved
-lengthwise, coarsely
-chopped, (white and
-green parts)
1/2 ts Thyme, dried, OR
3 ea Thyme, sprigs
2 ea Bay leaf
2 ea Cloves
3/4 ts Salt, coarse
8 ea Peppercorns
2 tb Oil, vegetable
6 lb Bones, veal, meaty, OR
-combination of veal
-and beef bones
4 ea Garlic, cloves, unpeeled
1 bn Parsley, stems
2 c  Water, plus more as
Needed
2 md Tomatoes, fresh or cammed
2 md Onions, trimmed, quartered
-cored, coarsely chopped
-don't peel
2 lg Carrots, peeled, trimmed
Preheat oven to 450 F.

Put the oil in a roasting pan and heat briefly in the oven.

Add the bones to the oil in the pan, toss to coat and roast for 35
minutes.

Add the onions, carrots, celery, leek, garlic and parsley, tossing
them all to coat with fat.  Roast 30 minutes longer.

Remove the pan from the oven and transfer the bones and vegetables to
a clean stockpot.  Drain off as much of the fat as possible.

Place the roasting pan over medium-high heat (use 2 burners if
necessary), and add 2 cups of cold water and boil briefly.  Scrape up
all of the browned bits into the water.

Transfer the liquid to the stock pot and add enough cold water to
cover. Bring slowly to a boil, skimming off all of the froth that
forms.

Lower the heat and add tomatoes, thyme, bay leaves, cloves and salt.
Simmer uncovered for 6 to 8 hours adding water as necessary just to
cover the ingredients.  Skim whenever necessary.

Add peppercorns for the last 15 minutes of the simmering.

Strain the "soup" into a large bowl through a colander lined with a
double layer of dampened cheesecloth.  Gently press the solids to
extract all of the liquid, and discard the solids.

Pour the stock into containers for storage and label and date them.

The stock will "keep" for up to 3 days in a refrigerator, and up to 6
months in a freezer.

Source:  New York's Master Chefs, Bon Appetit Magazine
Written by Richard Sax, Photographs by Nancy McFarland
The Knapp Press, Los Angeles, 1985
Date: 09-08-94
:
:
From: Rob Stewart

