Title: Vegetable And Rice Stuffed Pumpkin (Vegan)
Categories: Fatfree, Holiday, Vegetable, Rice, Pumpkin
Yield: 1 servings
1 md Red onion, chopped
1 cn Corn, drained
1 md Sweet green pepper, chopped
1 md Sweet red pepper, chopped
1 md Zucchini squash, chopped
1 md Yellow squash, chopped
2 md Fresh jalapeno peppers,
Seeded and minced
2 c  Cooked brown basmati rice
1/4 t  Mace
1/4 t  Tumeric
Black pepper
1/2 t  Cinnamon
4 T  Tamari sauce
1    Pumpkin (14 or 15 inches in
Diameter) or 2 smaller ones
4 T  Sugar
2 T  Tamari sauce
1 c  Water
1/2 lb Fresh shelled chestnuts
1/4 c  Un-sulfured raisins
1/4 c  Un-sulfured apricots,
Chopped
1    Granny Smith apple, chopped
(or any tart apple)
1/2 c  Walnuts, broken but not too
Small
1    Stalk celery, chopped
1 md White onion, chopped
1. Preheat oven to 350F. Wash pumpkin and cut off the top, angle the
cut so that the top will fit back on more easily, use a big spoon to
scoop out strings and seeds. Mix sugar and 2 tbs. tamari sauce (you
can warm them in the microwave so they will mix more easily ) and
spread evenly over insides of pumpkin. Line the bottom of a large pan
with single piece of aluminum foil folded over itself 3 or 4 times,
pour 1 cup water in pan, place top back on pumpkin and place in
baking pan, cover the pumpkin and the pan with foil. Bake for 20 to
25 minutes until pumpkin is just starting to become tender, the
thicker the pumpkin the longer it will take.

2. Steam the nuts for about 15 minutes. Rinse them in cool water and
slip off the brown skins. Chop chestnuts coarsely.

3. Combine chestnuts with raisins, apricots, apple, walnuts, celery,
white and red onions, corn, green and red pepper, jalapeno peppers,
mace, tumeric and rice, mix well. Add the 4 tbs. tamari and mix again.

4. Dust the inside of the pumpkin with the cinnamon.  Pack the
pumpkin with the filling and replace the pumpkin top. Return pan to
oven, add water to cover the bottom of the pan and bake for 45 to 55
minutes.

5. If you are going to serve the pumpkin on something other then the
pan it was cooked in BE CAREFUL. The bottom of the pumpkin may be
VERY soft.  Wrap the foil from the bottom of the pan up around the
pumpkin as you pick it up, this will keep the bottom intact.

When serving this recipe, scrap the inside of the pumpkin with the
serving spoon and mix the pumpkin into the stuffing.

If you have leftovers do not leave it in the pumpkin.  Remove the
filling and scrape out the pumpkin and store in your refrigerator.
Tastes great the day after.

NOTE: This is my modification of the recipe - THANKSGIVING PUMPKIN
STUFFED WITH RICE AND CHESTNUTS From The High Road to Health, Wagner
and Spade - which was posted to the FFList in October.  My primary
changes are adding lots more vegetables, removing the tofu and oil,
and changing the honey to sugar. I have made this twice now, am going
to make it for my family thanksgiving feast, and it is now one of my
permanent recipes.

Posted by "Joseph B. McKay III" <MCKAY_J@a1.eop.gov> to the Fatfree
Dig. Vol. 12 Issue 8 Nov. 9, 1994. FATFREE Recipe collections
copyrighted by Michelle Dick 1994. Used with permission. Formatted by
Sue Smith, S.Smith34, TXFT40A@Prodigy.com using MMCONV.

