Title: About Caviar
Categories: Information, Fish, Appetizers
Yield: 1 text file  Caviar is any salted fish roe. Although Russian sturgeon is the best
in the world, it is incredibly expensive and the roe of many other
fish is also quite tasty. In order of quality and price: salmon, cod,
herring and lumpfish. I have had good luck with fresh water fish as
well, especially "pickerel" or Wall-eyed Pike [and that's FREE!]

Caviar is very perishable and should be kept refrigerated but never
frozen. Canned caviar has been pasteurized but should be refrigerated
as soon as it has been opened. Pasteurizing does affect taste and
quality.

When preparing caviar dishes be careful not to bruise or break the
eggs. Never allow caviar to be touched by metal spoons or to be
served in metal bowls. Use wooden or plastic spoons and glass bowls.

All caviar should be served thoroughly chilled. The serving bowl is
usually imbedded in ice. The classic presentation is to serve a bowl
with fresh toast, either buttered or dry- just heap the caviar on
toast and enjoy. Use ornamental strips, triangles or rounds of white
or rye bread. Optional garnishes include lemon wedges, chopped hard
boiled egg yolks, egg whites and onions. The best accompaniments are
iced vodka or champagne.

For economy caviar, cream cheese and sour cream can be mixed into a
spread. Caviar can also be used sparingly as a garnish for sour
cream, white sauces or home made mayonnaise used to top blinis, cold
salmon appetizers and other fish dishes. As well it makes an elegant
topping for several canapes.

Caviar is never cooked but there are recipes using cooked fresh roe.

To prepare caviar from fresh roe: Remove the roe from VERY fresh
fish. Tear the egg masses into small pieces and work them through a
coarse sieve to free the eggs from the membranes. Soak the eggs in a
brine of 1 cup pickling salt to 1 qt cold water for 20 minutes. Drain
thoroughly, keeping it refrigerated while doing so. Store in an air
tight, covered non-metal container for up to one month.
Submitted By JIM WELLER   On   07-08-95

