Title: Absolutely Deep Dark Chocolate Fudge Cookies
Categories: Cake/cookie
Yield: 32 servings
Stephen Ceideburg
MMMMM--------------------------COOKIES-------------------------------
1/2 c  Unsweetened cocoa
1 1/2 c  All-purpose flour
1 ts Baking soda
1 ts Salt
8 oz Semisweet baking chocolate,
-broken
4 oz Unsweetened baking
-chocolate, broken
1 1/2 c  Firmly packed light brown
-sugar
3/4 c  Unsalted butter
3    Eggs
1 ts Vanilla
18 oz Semisweet chocolate chips
MMMMM-----------------OPTIONAL CHOCOLATE GANACHE----------------------
1 c  Whipping cream
2 tb Unsalted butter
2 tb Granulated sugar
12 oz Semisweet baking chocolate,
-broken
To prepare Cookies: Preheat oven to 325 degrees.

Sift together cocoa, flour, baking soda and salt onto a sheet of wax
paper. Set aside.

Heat 1 inch of water in the bottom of a double boiler over medium
heat. Place semisweet and unsweetened baking chocolate in top half of
the double boiler. Tightly cover the top pan with plastic wrap and
heat 12 to 15 minutes. Remove from heat and stir chocolate until
smooth. Keep at room temperature.

Place brown sugar and butter in the bowl of electric mixer and beat on
medium speed 1 minute. Scrape down bowl and beat on high speed
additional 30 seconds. Scrape down bowl. Add eggs, 1 at a time, while
beating on medium, stopping to scrape down bowl after incorporating
each addition.

Add vanilla and beat on medium 30 seconds. Add melted baking
chocolate and beat on low 10 seconds more. Scrape down bowl and beat
additional 30 seconds. Add flour mixture and beat on low until
thoroughly combined, 20 to 30 seconds. Remove bowl from mixer, add
chocolate chips and mix thoroughly with rubber spatula.

Using 2 baking sheets, portion 6 to 8 cookies per baking sheet by
dropping 2 level tablespoons batter per cookie onto each sheet. Place
pans on top and middle shelves of oven. Bake 18 to 22 minutes,
rotating sheets from top to bottom about halfway through baking time.
Cool cookies on pans 5 to 6 minutes.

Transfer cookies to wire rack. Repeat procedure until all cookies
have been baked. Cool cookies thoroughly before storing in sealed
plastic container.

To prepare Chocolate Ganache: Heat cream, butter and sugar in medium
saucepan over medium-high heat. When hot, stir to dissolve sugar.
Bring mixture to boil.

Place chocolate in stainless steel bowl and pour boiling cream over
chocolate. Let stand 5 minutes. Stir until smooth. Cool to room
temperature. (Ganache can be made 3 to 4 days ahead and refrigerated.
Reheat, stirring. Bring to room temperature before using.)

Put ganache in a serving bowl, so guests can dip their cookies in
before eating. Makes about 2 1/2 cups.

Adapted from "Death by Chocolate" Marcel Desaulniers.

Makes 3 to 3 1/2 dozen cookies.

From the Oregonian's FOODday, 2/9/93.

Posted by Stephen Ceideburg
Submitted By BARRY WEINSTEIN   On   07-10-95

