Title: Beef Essence or Extract
Categories: Meats, Soup/stew
Yield: 2 servings
Makes 2 cups
-(reconstituted, about 8
-quarts, or 1 cup of broth
Per Tbsp. of essence.
6 lb (or more) beef and veal
-bones, sawed into pieces
-by the
butcher (try to have the pieces cut no more than 2 to 3 inches long or
wide.) 3-1/2 to 4 pounds boneless shin of beef, cut into 1 inch cubes
2 large, unpeeled onions, one sliced, the other left whole 2 large
carrots, scrubbed and cut up coarsely Water as needed 2 ribs of
celery, with leaves, cut up 1/2 tsp. dried thyme, crumbled 1 medium
bay leaf 1 whole clove 2 ripe tomatoes, coarsely chunked 1 unpeeled
clove garlic, left whole 2 or 3 sprigs parsley Preheat the oven to
450 degrees. In one or two large, shallow roasting pans spread all
the bones and half of the shin beef, reserving the other half in the
refrigerator. Add the sliced onion and the cut up carrots.  Put the
pan or pans into the oven and brown the ingredients for 40 to 50
minutes, stirring and turning them from time to time; you want a good
brown color. Pour off any fat and put the bones, meat, and vegetables
into a very large stock pot. Pour 2 or 3 cups of water into the
roasting pan(s), then set over direct heat and stir and scrape to
dissolve all the brown bits.  Pour the deglazing liquid into the
stock pot. Add enough water to cover everything by about 2 inches.
Add the celery, thyme, bay leaf, the second onion (stuck with a
single clove, tomatoes, garlic, and parsley. Bring the liquid to a
boil, then adjust the heat so that the pot, partially covered,
maintain a gentle simmer, with only an occasional bubble.  Skim off
any foam at the beginning and cook everything for 7 or 8 hours,
skimming occasionally (this is to achieve clarity in the finished
essence).  The simmering can be interupted for several hours, or
overnight; let the pot sit, uncovered, for up to 8 hours at room
temperature, then resume cooking when convenient. (Refrigerate for
longer times or if the weather is warm.) After you judge all possible
flavor has been extracted from the solids in the pot, strain them all
out, pressing on them with a spoon to extract all the juices. Skim
all fat from the strained broth, which by now will amount to about 4
or 5 quarts.  Strain the broth through a cheesecloth-lined strainer
into the washed out pot (or into a smaller one) and add the remaining
beef, which you have meanwhile chopped or ground to the fineness of
hamburger. Resume simmering, skimming off fat and scum about every
half hour. After cooking the stock with the beef for 1-1/2 hours,
strain out the meat, pressing it to extract all possible flavor.
Strain the broth through the cheesecloth again a begin the final
reduction.  Resume simmering the stock, cooking the
ever-strengthening essence gently as long as necessary for it to
become a syrupy substance that will coat a cool metal spoon; this may
take up to 2 hours. (For the clearest essence, skim frequently.
However, the flavor of the finished product will be fine if you
aren't too fussy about the skimming; just be sure to skim off any fat
that appears. The essence is finished when it passes the metal-spoon
test. Strain it through a fine meshed metal strainer into small jars
or pots and let it cool, uncovered. Cover it closely and store in the
refrigerator, or freeze it. If frozen, scoop out with a hot spoon as
needed. Note: The exact yield wil depend on how much collagen was
contained in the bones and meat++the more collagen, the sooner the
jellying stage is reached.  The cooled essence will be firm, almost
rubbery, and highly concentrated in flavor.  If any surface mold
should eventually develop, remove it++it's harmless. From: Better
Than Store Bought Shared By: Pat Stockett

Submitted By PAT STOCKETT   On   07-11-95

