Title: BEP'S BARMI GORENG
Categories: Main dish, Indonesian, Usenet
Yield: 4 servings
1 lb Tomatoes, peeled
1/2 lb Chinese noodles
1 lb Mince beef
1/4 lb Middle bacon
1 tb Tomato paste
1 md Onion
2 ts Ketjap benteng manis
-(sweet soy sauce)
1/4 ts Sambal oelek
-(hot pepper condiment)
4 oz Boemboe nasi
-goreng (dehydrated
-vegetables and spices)
1/4 ts Sambal oedang kering
-(pepper condiment)
Soak the boemboe nasi goreng in hot water.

Dice and brown the onion, whilst boiling the noodles in another
container. Add mince and diced bacon to cooked onions and brown.

To soaked the boemboe nasi goreng add tomatoes, sambal oedang kering,
sambal oelek and ketjak benteng manis; mix well. More spices can be
added to taste.

Drain the noodles.  Add tomato paste and Chinese noodles to cooked
mince. Mix together. Bring to even heat and serve.

NOTES:

*  A tasty Indonesian dish -- This is a recipe that my mother, Bep,
has perfected.  I have no idea where the recipe originated from but
it is a great dish that she has perfected over the years. The
leftovers are great next day, hot or cold. Yield: serves 4.

*  Editor's note:  this recipe is unique in the history of
alt.gourmand in that virtually none of the ingredients is available
in an ordinary North American grocery store.  However, with a certain
amount of difficulty I was able to find all of the ingredients in
specialty food stores nearby (though admittedly I live in a
wonderland of ethnic grocery stores and specialty markets.) The
recipe is so delicious that it's worth including even though most
readers will not be able to find the ingredients to make it.

North Americans can read ground beef for mince beef and bacon for
middle bacon.  You can make an interesting substitute for this dish
by using Mexican seasonings instead of Indonesian; the flavor will
not be at all authentic but some of the spirit is preserved.

: Difficulty:  easy.
: Time:  30 minutes.
: Precision:  approximate measurement OK

: Michael Oudshoorn
: Department of Computer Science,
: The University of Adelaide,
: South Australia.
: ACSnet:  mjo@uacomsci.ua.oz

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

