Title: Beyond Peerless Red Raspberry Preserves
Categories: Can/preserv, Fruit
Yield: 4 servings
4 c  Red raspberries (heaping)
-(1 pound, 6 ounces)
3 1/4 c  Granulated sugar
-(1 pound, 4 ounces)
1/3 c  Fresh lemon juice; strained
1 ts Butter
Sort fresh raspberries, discarding any that are too soft, moldy or
otherwise suspect. Rinse them and drain them well. (If using frozen
berries, thaw and save all their juice.)

Stir the raspberries (including the juice if using thawed berries),
the sugar and lemon juice together in a bowl, using a rubber spatula.
Let the mixture stand, stirring gently once or twice, until the sugar
has dissolved, about 2 hours (many times I let is sit all day in the
refrigerator, or overnight).

Wash four half pint jars. Keep hot until needed. Prepare lids as
manufacturer directs.

Scrape the mixture into a large skillet or saute pan. Bring it to a
boil that cannot be stirred down, stirring constantly with a straight
ended wooden or nylon spatula, and boil rapidly for 6 minutes. Remove
from heat.

The butter helps reduce foam, but if some remains after you've
removed the skillet from the burner and let the jam settle for about
10 seconds, skim it off.  Ladle hot preserves into one hot jar at a
time, leaving 1/4-inch head space. Wipe jar rim with a clean, damp
cloth. Attach lid. Fill and close remaining jars. Process in a
boiling water bath for 10 minutes (at 1,001 to 3,000 feet, process
for 15 minutes; 3,001 to 6,000 feet, for 20 minutes).

Makes about 3-1/2 cups jam

Adapted from Fancy Pantry by Helen Witty who says "This is the jam
recipe I've been using for the crew of the John Paul Jones. I've been
using it for years, and invite you to use it as well if you don't
already have a favorite. The secret of making the brilliantly colored
and fresh tasting preserves from red raspberries is brief, fast
cooking in small batches. A wide shallow pan (a 12 inch skillet is
perfect) is essential."

Source: Oregonian FoodDay by Jan Roberts-Dominguez Typos by Dorothy
Flatman 1995
Submitted By DOROTHY FLATMAN   On   07-21-95

