Title: Big Burger Cake (2 of 3)
Categories: Desserts, Cake/cookie, Kids
Yield: 8 servings
-CYGNUS, HCPM52C
-DIRECTIONS, PART 1:
1. Heat oven to 300 degrees; Generously grease 1-1/2 qt. glass
casserole with shortening, using pastry brush. Sprinkle a little
flour into the casserole and shake gently from side to side until the
flour coats the bottom and sides.  Empty out remaining flour.
2. Prepare the cake mix as directed on package execpt--after mixing
pour the batter into the greased and floured casserole.
3. Bake in 300-degree oven 1 hour and 5 to 10 minutes or until
wooden pick inserted in center comes out clean. Cool the cake on rack
10 minutes then remove from the casserole to plate. Place the cake
rounded side up.
4. While the cake is cooling, sprinkle sesame seeds on ungreased
cookie sheet.  Bake in 300-degree oven about 5 minutes or until
golden. (You'll use the seeds later to sprinkle over yoru cake.) 5.
Fill baking pan about 1/2 of the way to the top with cold water and
ice cubes. Melt butter in saucepan over low heat. Stir in brown
sugar. Cook over low heat 2 minutes stirring occasionally.  Stir in
milk . Heat to rolling boil, stirring constantly.
6. Remove from heat and set the saucepan in the pan of cold water
and ice. When you can comfortably hold your hand on the bottom of the
saucepan, gradually stair in powdered sugar.
7. Place the saucepan back in the pan of ice water and beat the sugar
mixture until it becomes thick enough to spread. If the frosting is
too thin, sugar; If it is too thick, add a few drops of hot water.
8.  After the cake is cool, you are going to cut into 3 parts--1 for
the top of the bun, 1 for the hamburger, and one for the bottom of
the bun. To do this, mark the cake for easier cutting by sticking
wooden stick in the cake to guide your knife.  Place 1 row of wooden
picks (about 2" apart) 1 inch from the bottom of the cake and another
row 2 inches from the bottom.
9. Using the wooden picks as the gude, slice off the top of the cake
with serrated knife.  This is easier if your eyes are at the same
level as the cake.  So bend down or put the cake ona high counter.
Lift off the top and set aside.  Cut off the next layer and set aside.
10. Frost the bottom layer with spatula.

Source: Betty Crocker's CookBook for Boys & Girls

