Title: Cajun Fried Turkey
Categories: Cajun/creol, Poultry, Main dish, Meats
Yield: 10 servings
1    10-12 lb Turkey
4 tb Unsalted butter
3/4 c  Finely chopped onions
1/4 c  Finely chopped celery
3 tb Minced garlic
1 tb Salt
1 tb Cayenne
1 ts Black pepper
1/2 c  Basic stock
2 tb Worchestershire
5 ga Oil for frying
Prepare the turkey: Use a non-butter injected bird. One with no
seasonings pre-added. If turkey comes with a metal prong that holds
the cavity closed, remove it and put aside. Remove the neck and
gibblets from the turkey. Place turkey and neck in a large pan. If
turkey comes with a plastic "pop-up" doneness indicator, remove and
discard it. Set pan aside. In a large skillet heat butter over high
heat until half melted. Add the onions and saute about 3 minutes,
stirring occasionally Add the celery and garlic, salt, red pepper and
black pepper. Add cayenne peppers and cook until the mixture is a
golden brown, about 3 minutes, stir and scrape the pan bottom
frequently. Add the stock and Worchestershire and bring to a boil,
stirring constantly. Remove from heat and immediately transfer to a
blender; blend on highest speed until the mixture is a very smooth
puree. Rinse and drain turkey well. While puree is still hot, pour it
into a food injector and inject the puree into the turkey; insert to
the bone or to the depth of the injector needle, without piercing
through the cavity. Make injections about 2" apart, using most of the
puree in the meatiest areas. pour remaining puree, if any, into the
cavity of the bird and rub it over the inner surface. Set turkey
aside. Sprinkle a mixture of 2 t salt and 2 t cayenne evenly over the
bird and inside the cavity. Place the neck inside the cavity. Close
the legs together and either use the metal prong to hold, or tuck
legs under the skin flap. Cover and refrigerate overnight. Equipment:
~Butane burner with adjustable control, capable of producing a strong
flame. ~A very deep pot (8 gal or larger) so turkey will be totally
submerged in hot oil with room left over. Make sure pot is large
enough to prevent oil from bubbling over. ~A large enough fry-basket
to fit the turkey in with room to spare that fits the pot; the turkey
will be slipped into and lifted from the hot bubbling oil in this
basket. ~A thermometer that reads up to at least 400 deg F and has a
long probe and clip so that it can be left in the hot oil while the
turkey fries. ~Two strong heatproof utensils or two 20" or longer
barbecue forks to use to turn the turkey over in the oil in case it
doesn't stay submerged while cooking. ~A large platter or pan lined
with several layers paper bags to absorb oil after turkey is removed
from the cooker. ~Lots of pot-holders. ~Old towels around the cooker
on the ground to absorb any spilled oil. Heat oil to 400 deg F.
Slowly and carefully lower the basket with the turkey in, into the
hot oil. Adjust flame to maintain temp. as close to 350 deg F as
possible. Keep bird submerged, or turn carefully so as not to slosh
oil every 10-15 minutes. Let bird fry until juices run clear when a
skewer is inserted into breast meat. Total cooking time should be
35-45 minutes. The bird will look dark brown when done properly.
Don't worry that it is burning or has burned. Remove basket and bird
from oil and place turkey BREAST SIDE DOWN, on the paper-bag lined
platter.  Let drain 5 minutes, turn over and drain and cool 15
minutes. Carve as normal; serve immediately. Submitted By ALAN
BURGSTAHLER   On   07-03-95

