Title: Cinnamon Peach Ice Cream
Categories: Desserts, Ice cream, Fruit
Yield: 6 servings
1 c  Milk
1 c  Half-and-half
1 ea Vanilla bean  OR
2 ts Vanilla
3 lg Egg yolks
1 c  Granulated sugar; divided
1 c  Whipping cream
1 1/2 lb Ripe peaches; peeled chopped
-(4 large)
1 ts Ground cinnamon
1/2 ts Almond extract
Cinnamon peach ice cream is reserved for the height of the summer
peach season. The creamy custard base should be cooked well in
advance so it is thoroughly chilled on ice cream making day.

In a heavy saucepan, combine the milk and half-and-half. Split the
vanilla bean, if using, and scrape the seeds from inside; add the pod
and seed pulp to the milk mixture and place over moderately low heat.
If using pure vanilla, wait until cooling instructions before adding.
Scald until bubbles appear around the edges; remove from heat.

Put the egg yolks in a large bowl; whisk or beat with 1/2 cup of the
sugar for 1 minute. Slowly whisk in the hot milk mixture. Return the
mixture to the saucepan; stir over low heat until the custard just
begins to simmer and becomes thick enough to lightly coat a spoon. Do
not let the custard boil or it will curdle. Immediately transfer to a
bowl set in a larger bowl of cold water and ice cubes. Stir to cool
the custard quickly. If using pure vanilla, stir it in now. Cover
with plastic wrap placed directly on the surface of the custard;
chill for 6 hours or overnight.

Remove the vanilla bean, if using, scraping off any custard and seed
pulp. Stir in the whipping cream. Return the custard to the
refrigerator.

In a bowl, combine the peaches with the remaining 1/2 cup sugar, the
cinnamon and almond extract. Stir to dissolve the sugar. Cover and
chill for 1 hour, stirring occasionally.

In the container of an ice cream maker, combine the cream mixture
with the fruit mixture. Freeze according to the manufacturer's
directions. Transfer the ice cream to the freezer for at least 2
hours before serving.

Makes about 6 cups

Source: From Big Flavors by Jim Fobel Published in the Oregonian
FoodDay by Mary MacVean
Typos by Dorothy Flatman 1995
Submitted By DOROTHY FLATMAN   On   07-21-95

