Title: Company Wild Rice and Chestnut Stuffing.
Categories: Holiday, Dress/stuff, Rice, Nuts/grains, Game
Yield: 6 servings
2 c  Chestnuts, cut an "X" on the
-flat side
1 1/2 qt Water
2 tb Buttor or vegetable oil
2    Shallots, peeled, ends
-removed, chopped
1/2 c  Chopped celry
3 ts Fresh thyme , washed, dried
-and chopped or....
1 ts Dried
1 c  Cooked wihte rice
1 c  Cooked wild rice
1    Granny Smith Apple, peeled,
-cored and diced
2 tb Chopped parsley
"Although it may seem corny" says Leslie Arwin, "Our holiday season
seems to revolve around chestnuts."  Her father would bring in an
armload of snow-coated logs and build a fire.  As her mother browned
onions and celery for her savory wild-rice stuffing in the kitchen,
her father would slith the chestnuts and shake them over the embers
in a wire bassket until they were cooked.  Too impatient to let them
cool, Arwin and her sister burned their fingers shelling the steaming
nuts. "We'd eat half right away and save the other half for my
mother's stuffing" recalls Arwin, an Ann Arbor family practice
physician, artist and the mother of two teenagers. Both of her
parents, who owned Detroit's Arwin Gallery on Washington Boulevard,
died in 1981.  Arwin inherited the wire basket. "Now my fireplace is
a gas log" she says "But it still works well for roasting chestnuts.

Salt and Pepper to taste Optional Dash of cognac or sherry.

In a large saucepan of small soup pot, place chestnuts and add water.
Over high heat, bring to a boil. Reduce heat to low and simmer for 20
to 25 minutes.  Remove from heat and drain into a colander.  Set
aside until cool enough to touch.

Meanwhile, in a large skillet heat butter or oil, Saute shallots and
celery. Sprinkle with Thyme.

After about five minutes remove from heat.  Add white rice, wild rice,
diced apple, parsley, salt and pepper.  Set aside.

When chestnuts are cool enough to touch, remove shell and skin and
chop coarsely.  Add to stuffing.  Toss until evenly combined.  Place
in a 1 1/2 to 2 quart casserole.  At serving time, cover and
microwave on high, about five minutes or until heated through.  Pass
stuffing with cognac or sherry to be sprinkled on if desired.
From Leslie Arwin, Ann Arbor, Mi.  Via WXYZ-TV show COMPANY and the
11/16/1994 edition of the Detroit Free Press. Tested in their kitchen.

Nutrition detalls per serving......

Percent of calories from fat    24%  (lo-fat)
Calories    249

Carbohydrate: 44 gm Cholesterol: ZERO
Fat: 7 gm    Protein: 3 gm
Sodium: 202 mg

Diabetic exchanges:  1/4 Vegetable, 2 1/2 Bread, 1/4 Fruit and 1/4
fat.

