Title: Dublin Corned Beef and Cabbage - House Beautiful
Categories: Main dish, Meats, Vegetables
Yield: 6 servings
1    Fresh lean corned beef,
-6 1/2 to 7 lb, rinsed and
-dried
3 md Onions, peeled and studded
-with 3 cloves each
6    Carrots, peeled and halved
4    Garlic cloves, peeled
3    Ribs celery, with leaves,
-halved
6    Sprigs flat leaf parsley
Peel from 1 orange
8 md Leeks, 3 inches of green
-left on, roots removed and
-well washed
16 sm Red new potatoes, peeled
1 md Green cabbage, 3 to 3 1/2
-lb, cored and cut into 8
-wedges
8    Carrots, peeled and cut into
-2-inch pieces
Salt & coarsely ground black
-pepper to taste
4 tb Coarsely chopped flat leaf
-parsley
2 c  Cumberland Sauce
-(separate recipe)
2 c  Orange Horseradish Cream
-(separate recipe)
Black bread and sweet butter
In a large casserole place corned beef, onions studded with cloves,
carrots, garlic, celery, parsley and orange peel.

Cover meat and vegetables with cold water and bring to a boil, Reduce
heat to medium and simmer, partially covered, for about 3 hours,
turning the meat every 30 minutes.

Skim off any foam that rises to the surface. When the meat is tender
and can be easily pierced with a fork, remove it to a plate, cover
with aluminum foil and keep warm. Pour the broth through a strainer
into a bowl and return it to the casserole. (Reserve the flavoring
vegetables for another use.) Add leeks, potatoes, cabbage, carrot
pieces, salt and pepper.

Bring the broth to a boil and simmer over medium heat, partially
covered, for 30 minutes, until vegetables are tender. Stir in 2 T
chopped parsley.

Before serving, slice the corned beef and place on a large decorative
serving platter. Arrange the vegetables around the corned beef, ladle
hot broth over all to moisten and sprinkle with remaining chopped
parsley.

Serve with Baby Artichokes (see recipe below), Cumberland Sauce,
Orange Horseradish Cream, coarse black bread and pots of sweet
butter. Serves 6 to 8.

House Beautiful/March/94  Scanned & fixed by DP & GG
Submitted By MICHELLE HOWE   On   07-12-95

