Title: Duck in Avocado
Categories: Poultry, Vegetables, Main dish, Fruit
Yield: 6 servings
3    Ripe, but firm, avocados
1 qt Water
Juice of 1 lemon
The breast and thigh meat from a whole roasted duckling 6 medium-sized
oranges, peeled and segmented Lettuce leaves 1/4 cup chopped pecans or
toasted sliced almonds 6 tbsp. mayonnaise 2 tbsp. frozen undiluted
orange juice, defrosted Parsley sprigs Orange wedges (optional)

1.  Peel the avocados, cut them in half, and immediately dip them in
the water with the lemon juice added to keep them from discoloring.

2.  Be sure the duck meat is skinless and boneless.  Cut it into
bite-sized pieces.

3.  Mix the duck meat with the orange segments.  Divide into six
portions. Fill the avocado halves, which have been placed on a
platter lined with crisp lettuce leaves, with the portions of meat
and oranges.

4.  Mix the concentrated juice with the mayonnaise and spoon this
over each stuffed avocado.  Top each with the nuts.  Decorate with
parsley sprigs and orange wedges.

CHEF'S SECRET:  Always peel the avocado first and then cut it in
half. This is important, because if avocados are ripe enough to be
eaten, the halves would be mashed during the peeling process.

If you leave the pits in after halving the avocados and dipping them
in the lemon water, you can wrap the avocados in plastic wrap and
keep them all day in the refrigerator.  They won't discolor.

You can give this dish an oriental flavor by mixing 1 tbsp. soy sauce
into the 6 tbsp. mayonnaise, replacing the orange with canned
tangerine segments, and grinding some roasted sesame seeds over the
dish. (The sesame seeds are available in very bandy little plastic
throw-away grinders in grocery stores carrying oriental foods.)

When using the canned tangerine segments, you can greatly improve the
taste by pouring off the canned syrup, rinsing the segments quickly
in cold water, then transferring them to a plastic container.
Squeeze the juice of 1 lemon over them and, if you like, add 1 or 2
tbsp. brandy and enough water to cover.  Chill in the refrigerator
overnight.

Makes 6 servings.

From "The Chef's Secret Cookbook", Louis Szathmary, Quadrangle Books,
Chicago.  1972.

Posted by Stephen Ceideberg; March 14 1993.

