Title: Glazed Apple Cake
Categories: Cake/cookie
Yield: 1 servings
3    Mc Intosh apples; about
-1 1/2 lb., cored and cut
-into quarters
1/4 c  -Water
1    Lemon peel; fresh, 2" strip
1/2 c  Unsalted butter; softened
1 c  Sugar
1    Large egg
2 1/4 c  All purpose flour
2 ts Baking soda
1 ts Cinnamon
1/2 ts Nutmeg; fresh grated
1/4 ts Cloves; ground
1/4 ts Salt
1/2 c  Pecans; finely chopped,
-toasted
2    Granny Smith apples
1/4 c  Apricot jam; strained
MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
-Whipped cream; optional
In a large saucepan combine the McIntosh apples with the water and
lemon peel, bring the water to a boil and simmer the apples, covered,
for 20 minutes, or until tender. Cook the mixture, uncovered, over
moderately high heat, stirring, until the water is almost evaporated.
Force the mixture through a food mill into a bowl, and allow the
puree to cool. (I zap it in my food processor, until it is a puree).

Generously butter a 9" springform pan and preheat the oven to 350
deg. F. In a large bowl cream the butter, beat in the sugar and beat
the mixture until light and fluffy. Beat in the egg and the apple
puree. Into a bowl, sift together the flour, baking soda, cinnamon,
nutmeg, cloves and salt. Stir the flour mixture and the pecans gently
into the apple mixture and pour the batter into the springform pan.
Peel and core the Granny Smith apples, halve them lengthwise and cut
them crosswise into thin slices. *Arrange the apple slices
decoratively in bunches on the batter, pressing them lightly into the
batter.
Bake the cake in the middle of the oven for 1 1/4 hours, or until a
cake tester inserted in the center comes out clean. Remove the cake
to a rack.

In a small saucepan melt the jam over low heat, brush it over the
cake and let the cake cool in the pan on a rack for 20 minutes. Run a
sharp knife around the edge of the pan to loosen the cake and remove
the sides of the pan.  Serve the cake warm or at room temperature
with the whipped cream, if desired.  Note: If you prefer, substitute
3 large firm pears to make the fruit puree.  Use 2 firm but ripe
unpeeled pears, halved lengthwise, cored and cut into thin slices for
the top of the cake.

Note:* You should be able to make about 14 groups bunches of the
sliced Granny Smith Apples, and arrange them in 12 groups around the
cake, with two groups in the center, sort of like a flower. Press the
slices in, keeping the round side of the slices up, and pressing them
straight into the batter. This is a lovely looking cake. I have only
made it once...it was quite simple, yet very elegant looking and
different.

Source: Gourmet's Best Desserts

