Title: Green Peppers And Deep-Fried Bean Curd
Categories: Vegetables, Vietnamese
Yield: 4 servings
1 tb Ground nut or corn oil
2    Thin slices fresh ginger --
Peeled and deveined
4 lg Chinese celery cabbage
Leaves -- cut in 1" lengths
1 lg Green bell pepper -- seeded
And sliced
Salt
Oil -- for deep frying
4 x  1-inch square cakes bean
Curd
Drained and cut into
Rectangles,
3    Per cake (use paper towels
To drain)
MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
1 ts Potato flour
5 tb Mushroom water
2 tb Oyster sauce
2 ts Vegetable oil
1    Clove garlic -- finely
Chopped
2    Green onions -- cut into 1"
Sections
White and green parts
Separated
4 lg Dried Chinese mushrooms
Soaked, squeezed, and cut
Into thin
Strips (water to be
Reserved)
*(Ot Kgot Xanh Voi Dau Phy Chien).

1.  Prepare the sauce by mixing together the potato flour, mushroom
water, oyster sauce, and soy sauce.  Heat a wok and add 2 tablespoons
oil and swirl around.  Add the garlic, letting it sizzle and then add
the white part of the onion and then the Chines 2. Heat 1 tablespoon
nut or corn oil in a wok over a high heat until it starts to smoke.
Add the ginger and when it starts to sizzle, add the cabbage and
green pepper. Toss for about 30 seconds.  Season with a little salt,
lower the heat and continue to 3. Now half fill the wok with oil,
heat to 200° and lower the bean curd into the oil, one piece at a
time, and deep-fry for 4 minutes or until golden brown, turning over
from time to time.  Remove with a large strainer and drain on paper
towels. 4. Lay the bean curd on the cabbage in the pot and add the
green part of the onion. Heat the sauce and pour this over the bean
curd. Heat the pot for 2 minutes and serve.

Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.

: "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
Recipe By
Books

