Title: Ha Rageel
Categories: Cake/cookie
Yield: 6 servings
MMMMM---------------------VULCAN CARROT LOAF--------------------------
-Jo Ferry cmsj69b
1 1/2 c  Carrots; grated
1    Grated rind & juice of lemon
1/2 c  Butter
1/2 c  Dark brown sugar
3    Eggs; large
2 tb Water
1 c  Golden raisins
1 1/2 c  Flour
1/2 ts Cinnamon
1/2 ts Nutmeg
1 ts Baking powder
1 ts Baking soda
1/4 ts Salt
Confectioners sugar
Note: It has never ceased to amuse Dr. McCoy that Mr. Spock, with all
his logical training, cannot consider Ha Rageel a close equivalent to
Tufeen Hushani. Actually, to the logical Vulcan mind, a ceremonial
wedding cake is quite unrelated to an "everyday" dessert loaf. It is
quite true that they contain many of the same ingredients and have a
somewhat similar taste. But this no more makes them related than the
same number of eyes and legs makes first cousins of horses and dogs.
To a cook the difference is also important. Preparing the wedding
cake requires time, attention, and care to avoid a minor disaster;
with Ha Rageel you can hardly go wrong.
Preheat the oven to 350. Grease a 2-quart ring mold with a little
butter.
Peel the carrots and grate them. Grate the yellow rind off the
lemon, using the coarse set of teeth on your grater. Leave enough of
the white inner rind so that you can squeeze the lemon for its juice
when you are done grating.
Cream the butter and sugar together until the mixture is somewhat
light colored. Add the eggs, mix well, then add the carrots, lemon
juice and rind, water and raisins.
In a smaller bowl mix together the dry ingredients, exept the
confectioners sugar, and add them to the liquid part a bit at a time.
When it is well mixed, pour the batter into the greased mold. Bake
for about 40 minutes, or until a knife or skewer stuck into it comes
out clean. Let it cool for about 5 minutes, unmold on a serving plate
and dust with confectioners sugar.
Note: If you dust the plate with a little confectioners sugar
before you unmold the cake onto it, the cake will tend to stick to it
less.

