Title: James Beard Summer Sandwich Ideas+
Categories: Sandwich
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM-----------------------NO INGREDIENTS----------------------------
James Beard had to say about sandwiches that they, like so many
ordinary foods, are often treated carelessly. They can make wonderful
outdoor meals if prepared properly with the best ingredients. The
major consideration is the bread. Don't use cottony, thick sliced
white type that is so widely sold. The best sandwiches are made of
very thin slices of firm bread and plenty of tasty filling. If you
can't get bread of good, firm texture at your grocery store, search
the neighborhood for those long thin loaves of French bread. Or find
a bakery where you can get good homemade style bread, or rye bread.

Have your butter soft so it will spread evenly. Sometimes a little
flavor added to the butter makes the sandwiches tastier. Try adding a
little garlic to the butter for the meat fillings, a little lemon and
parsley for the fish fillings, mustard-prepared or dry for ham or
chicken, and curry whenever you like it.

Spread the bread well with the butter and top it with plenty of
filling. cover with another slice of bread, press down dirmly, and
either cut in two pieces or leave whole. Wrap each sandwich
seperately in foil or waxed paper. Put them in the refrigerator to
chill. This always makes them better.

If the fillings you have selected tends to make the bread soggy,
carry them in separate containers and assemble your sandwiches on the
site of your picnic.

Here are some suggestions for fillings:

* Thinly sliced Italian or Bermuda onions sprinkled with salt * Thinly
sliced cucumber with mayonnaise * Thin slices of chicken with
mayonnaise * Thin slices of rare roast beef with mustard butter *
Thin slices of old fashioned baked ham (not the boiled ham sold
in most groceries) with mustard or chutney * Club sandwich: Toast
slices of bread. On the bottom slice spread butter,
then mayonnaise, then place a piece of lettuce, top it with a sliced
tomato, sliced chicken, and cooked crisp bacon. Add more mayonnaise
and
top with the other slice of toast. Press together and wrap in foil *
Chopped cooked chicken livers and chopped egg, mixed together,
seasoned
with onion, and moistened with chicken fat of mayonnaise * Chopped
shrimp, seasoned with a bit of onion and parsley and moistened
with mayonnaise * Lobster tail thinly sliced, seasoned with salt and
pepper and spread
with mayonnaise * Chopped, egg, pickle, and mayonnaise * Head
cheese * Cream cheese, smoked salmon, and onion * Corned beef, sliced
pickle, and onion * Cold roast lamb with pickle relish and curry
butter * cold sliced steak with mustard * Ham and Swiss cheese *
Tongue and mustard * Tongue, cheese, and horseradish

MM format courtesy Mary Riemerman
Submitted By MARY RIEMERMAN   On   06-30-95

