Title: Lime Angel Food Cake
Categories: Cake/cookie
Yield: 8 servings
1 c  Cake flour
1 c  Confectioner's sugar
1 1/2 c  Egg whites (about 12 large)
-at room temperature
2 tb Fresh lime juice
1 ts Grated lime zest
1 ts Cream of tartar
1/4 ts Salt
1 c  Granulated sugar
Confectioner's sugar icing
-flavored with -- lime
-(see recipe)*
*  See Confectioner's Sugar Icing recipe, elsewhere in this database.

NOTE:  An angel food cake is cooled upside-down. You will need either
a tube pan with legs on the rim or a tube higher than the sides on
which the pan can be balanced. If your tube pan has neither, then
place the tube over the neck of a bottle to keep the cake elevated.
If you like, just before serving, decorate the iced cake with
pesticide-free edible flowers, such as pansies, nasturtiums or roses.

Preheat oven to 350~ Put rack in center of oven. In a medium bowl,
sift together flour and confectioner's sugar. Resift the flour
mixture twice. Set aside.

In a large bowl, using an electric mixer set on medium-high speed,
beat together the egg whites; lime juice, lime zest, cream of tartar
and salt until soft peaks form. Gradually add the granulated sugar, 2
tablespoons at a time, and continue beating until stiff, glossy peaks
form. Sift one-fourth of the flour mixture over the egg white
mixture. Using a rubber spatula, gently fold the flour mixture into
the egg white mixture. Repeat the sifting and folding with the
remaining flour mixture in 3 more batches. Spoon the batter into a
nonstick or regular tube pan 9 1/2 inches in diameter and 4 inches
deep. Bake until the cake springs back when lightly touched, about 45
minutes. Invert the cake in the pan onto a work surface (see note)
and let cool completely. When cool, run a sharp knife around the pan
sides to loosen the cake and turn out of the pan. Place right-side up
on a serving plate. Drizzle the icing over the top, allowing it to
run over the sides slightly. Let stand until icing sets, about 1
hour. Serve immediately , or cover with a cake dome and store at room
temperature for up to 1 day. Makes one 9 1/2-inch cake; serves 8.

From Williams-Sonoma Kitchen Library Typed for you by Marjorie
Scofield 6/23/95

: From Cakes, Cupcakes, Cheesecakes
Recipe By

Date: 06-30-95 (23:07) (18)
From: Marjorie Scofield
(E)Recipes

