Title: Miscellaneous Allergy Hints
Categories: Allergy, Information
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM-----------------------NO INGREDIENTS----------------------------
1.  For spice allergies, simply remove the spice in question.  The
same is true for herbs and mustard.

2.  To substitute for semi-sweet chocolate or chocolate morsels
(which may contain gluten) in a recipes, use 2 level tbsp cocoa and 2
level tbsp of butter, margarine or shortening for each one ounce
square of chocolate called for in the recipe.

3. For those allergic to gluten or soy products, make your own soy
sauce by experimenting with salt, hot water, molasses or caramel.
The flavour is affected by the heat of the water.

4. Canned junior meats make a handy sandwich filling either on bread
or bread substitute.

5. Adding mashed bananas to mixtures in which there have been
substitutions helps hold the mixture together and also adds flavour.

6. Tapioca is very well tolerated by persons with food allergies.  To
minute tapioca and soy milk, add a little vanilla and sugar, cook to
pudding form, then add a little corn syrup on top.

7. Ground lamb can be just as versatile as beef.  Use to make
hamburgers, shepherd's pie, meat loaf. Not all stores will grind lamb
for you. When you convince one to do so, have them put a bit of lamb
fat through the grinder first. This removes all traces of any other
meat ground previously. Don't forget that lamb livers and kidneys can
be used to provide variety. A good sandwich spread can be made by
grinding up liver with whatever else can be tolerated and moistened
with soy milk substitute. Also, one kidney and one liver ground into
10 pounds of meat yields a delicious, nutritious variation.

8. Use carob powder in recipes in place of chocolate or cocoa by equal
substitution. Carob looks like chocolate or cocoa and can be
purchased at health food stores.

9. If you are unable to use lemon juice or ascorbic acid to prevent
discoloration of fruit, a mild salt solution with do the job.

10. Baking powder may contain corn so check the ingredient listing on
the container carefully.  A drug store will make up substitute baking
powder. It is possible to substitute 1 tsp baking powder for 1 egg in
quick bread recipes, but do not use this substitute in cake recipes.

11. The content of corn in baking powder is so infinitesimal that most
tartrate baking powders are acceptable, except in extremely unusual
cases. The following is a corn-free baking powder: 1 part baking
soda, 1 part cream of tartar, 1 part potato starch.  Make up in any
quantity and substitute directly.

12. Sometimes merely using equal amounts of cream of tartar and baking
soda is sufficient, especially for heavy batters such as Christmas
cake. For example, if the recipe calls for 1 tsp baking poweder, use
1 tsp cream or tartar and 1 tsp baking soda.

Origin: The Allergy Cookbook. Shared by: Sharon Stevens, July/95.

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   07-04-95

