Title: MOLDED CRANBERRY RELISH
Categories: Relishes, Holiday, Usenet
Yield: 8 servings
MMMMM--------------------------DRESSING-------------------------------
2 c  Marshmallow creme
1 c  Heavy whipping cream
3 oz Cream cheese
MMMMM---------------------------RELISH--------------------------------
10 oz Cranberries, fresh
3/4 c  Water
6 oz Raspberry Jello mix
-(1 package)
1/4 c  Sugar, granulated
1 c  Celery, chopped fine
1 c  Tokay grapes
-(quartered and seeded)
2 1/2 c  Pineapple (canned),
-crushed, including
-syrup (one #2 can)
MAKE DRESSING:  The night before serving the relish, place the cream
cheese and marshmallow creme in a small bowl.  Mash lightly with a
fork to barely break up cream cheese.  Add whipping cream and cover
tightly.  Refrigerate overnight.

15 minutes before serving, whip mixture with an electric mixer until
it reaches the consistency of thick, but not stiff, whipped cream.

MAKE RELISH:  Rinse cranberries thoroughly.  Place in an 8-cup
saucepan with water and cover. Bring to a boil and cook until the
berries have "popped." Remove from heat and, using an electric mixer,
beat gently until all the berries are broken. Add Jello and sugar.
Place saucepan over a bowl of ice and stir occasionally until mixture
has thickened but not jelled.

Add grapes, celery and crushed pineapple (including packing syrup).
Pour into prepared mold and chill in refrigerator until set (about 3
hours).

To serve, unmold relish onto a plate and place dressing in a separate
dish. Serve a couple of dollops of dressing with each serving of
relish.

NOTES:

*  For years my mother required us to taste her ever-changing version
of a fresh cranberry relish she insisted serving at Thanksgiving and
Christmas. The unanimous family response to the inevitably bitter
dish was, "Do we have to?" Then one year a friend came to
Thanksgiving dinner and contributed what is now known simply as "the
recipe." Mom never tried to improve on this addictive relish. Yield:
Serves 8-10.

*  The most difficult step is in unmolding the relish.  I always
spray my mold very lightly with a coating of an aerosol cooking oil
(such as "PAM") before filling it with the relish. When it's time to
unmold, I run a thin spatula around the outside of the molded relish
to barely loosen it, place the serving plate on top and invert the
mold and plate. I rarely have to dip the mold in hot water to loosen
the relish.

*  I usually use a standard ring mold and put the dressing in a footed
compote which sits in the center of the unmolded ring of relish.

: Difficulty:  moderate.
: Time:  10 minutes preparation, overnight chilling, 30 more minutes
preparation.
: Precision:  approximate measurement OK.

: Pamela McGarvey
: UCLA Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, Los Angeles, Calif., USA
: {ihnp4!sdcrdcf,ucbvax!ucla-cs,hao}!cepu!pam

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

