Title: Peach Varieties Picking And Storing
Categories: Information, Fruit, Can/preserv
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM-----------------------PEACH HOW TO'S----------------------------
PEACH VARIETIES: Peaches are customarily classified into two general
categories: freestone and clingstone. Freestone fruit has a stone or
pit that's easy to remove; Clingstone's more solid flesh is more
difficult to separate from the pit. Here are some common Oregon
varieties, in the order they'll appear in markets. U-picks and
farmers markets generally have the best selection.

RED HAVEN: An early clingstone, this variety is excellent for eating
out of hand. Because it is difficult to free from the pit in halves,
it is not the best canning peach. However, you can cut slices off the
pit and freeze.

FREESTONE JULY ELBERTA:  Excellent for eating fresh, canning and
freezing.

SUNCREST PEACHES: A freestone, it's excellent for eating fresh and
freezing. It has a slightly acidic flavor; it's red so it's difficult
to judge ripeness. Look for a golden base color that comes through
the red.

VETERAN:  Popular for canning because it is a freestone and, when
fully ripe, does not need to be dipped in boiling water to get the
skin off. Simply take the tip of a paring knife and pull the skin
off. Veteran can also be frozen.

IMPROVED OR LATE ELBERTAS:  This longtime canning favorite now takes
second place to Veterans in this area. This freestone peach also
freezes well. They do require dipping in boiling water to remove
skins.

HOW TO PEEL PEACHES: Bring a saucepan of water to a boil. Add peaches
and let them blanch 30 to 40 seconds; time will depend on ripeness of
the fruit. Boiling too long will cook peaches.

Remove the peaches with a slotted spoon and immediately transfer to a
large bowl of ice water. Leave to cool, then drain and dry well before
peeling.

The skin will be easy to remove with a small paring knife. Or you
can slip it off with your fingers. Leave the peach whole or cut in
half, depending on use.

To retain color, dip peaches into or sprinkle with citrus juice or
commercial ascorbic acid. A pound of peaches equals 2 large, 3
medium, or 2 cups peeled and sliced.

HOW TO PICK A FRESH PEACH If you are going to U-pick peach orchards,
be sure to ask how to pick the peaches. the fruit will not have the
quality and sweetness if you pick them before they are ripe. red
color is not a sign of ripeness; blush (the red color) depends on the
variety of peach and exposure to sun.

When picking, a golden color indicates the peach is ripe. Fragrance
is also an indication of ripeness. Don't use your fingertips to check
firmness, peaches bruise easily. Hold peach in your whole hand, fruit
should not be rock hard.

STORING PEACHES: Purchase firm, ripe peaches; they can be held for a
few days. to ripen further, keep fruit at room temperature; chemical
properties allow them to complete the ripening cycle off the tree. To
ripen a few peaches, place with other fruit in a loosely closed paper
bag at room temperature. Ripe peaches should immediately be
refrigerated.

When picking peaches at the orchard, place them directly in shallow
boxes and do not have more than two layers. Do not place in buckets.

Check daily for ripeness because they do not ripen all at one time.
If preserving, plan to freeze or can only those peaches that are
fully ripe.

HOW MUCH TO BUY: One pound of fresh peaches will equal 2 large or 3
to 4 medium peaches; it will yield approximately 2 cups sliced or
diced fruit or 1-1/2 cups pulp or puree.

A 20 pound box of peaches will give you 8 to 10 quarts of canned
peaches, or approximately 10 quarts of frozen peaches.

Source: Oregonian FoodDay by Sharon Maasdam Typos by Dorothy Flatman
1995 Submitted By DOROTHY FLATMAN   On   07-21-95

