Title: Pecan Coffee Cake
Categories: Breadmaker, Desserts
Yield: 10 servings
1 1/2    Sticks unsalted butter -- at
Room temp.
3    Extra large
3    Extra large
2 ts Vanilla extract
1/2 c  Sugar
3 c  Flour
1/4 c  Flour
1/2 ts Salt
1 tb Yeast
MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
6 tb Unsalted butter -- cut into
1    " chunks
1 1/2 c  Dark brown sugar
1/3 c  Corn syrup
3 tb Molasses
1/4 c  Heavy cream
2 c  Pecan halves -- toasted
Eggs
Egg yolks
Place all dough ingredients in the machine.  Program for knead and
first rise and press start.  At the end of the final cycle, transfer
the dough to a well-oiled bowl, cover it with plastic and refrigerate
for 2 hours. Generously butter a 12 cup bundt pan.  Place the butter,
sugar, corn syrup and molasses in a 2 quart saucepan set over medium
heat.  Allow the mixture to come to a boil.  Cook 2 minutes at full
boil.  Remove from the heat and add the cream.  Stir in combine and
then immediately stir in the pecans. Continue to mix until all the
pecans are covered.  Pour a third of the filling into the prepared
pan and set aside the rest to cool while you prepare the dough.  On a
lightly floured work surface, roll the dough into a 20 x 9 inch
rectangle.  Place the prepared pan nearby.  Pour the rest of the
filling down the length of the dough and use a metal spatula to
quickly spread it to within 2" of the edges.  Flip one long side of
the dough over the middle, then the other, to form a long roll.
Quickly lift the roll and place it in the pan so that the ends
overlap slightly.  Cover the pan with lightly oiled plastic wrap and
allow the dough to rise in warm place until doubled in bulk.  Preheat
the oven to 375 with the rack in the center position.  Bake for 20
minutes and then reduce the heat to 350 and bake it another 20 to 25
minutes.  If the top is getting too brown, cover it loosely with
foil.  Put a cake rack over a large plate. Remove cake from oven and
turn over onto the rack.  Scoop up any filling that drips off and
place it back on cake.  Once filling has cooled, remove the cake to a
serving plate.

: Desserts from Your Bread Machine
Recipe By

Date: 07-19-95 (16:16) (19)
From: Meg Antczak
(E)Cooking

