Title: PORRO'S ONE POT OLYMPIC POULTRY
Categories: Poultry, Vegetables
Yield: 6 servings
Ingredients:
Chicken or Turkey parts to
-match servings desired.
1 qt Chicken Broth or Chicken
-Soup
1 ts Cilantro
1 ts Ground Correander Seed (only
-if you don't use Cilantro!)
1 tb Oregano
1/4 sm Onion chopped
1    Clove garlic minced
1/4 c  Cooking wine (bitter orange
-or other fruit is best)
1 ts Ground White pepper
1 tb Crushed Red pepper (subst.
-Cayenne)
1 ts Sweet Basil (optional, I
-like it)
1/4    Lemon with rind on
1 c  Rice uncooked (I don't use
-pre-cooked type, but either
-works)
Choose your large cast iron pot (my usual) or in my case now with no
stove, a West Bend electric fry pan.

Set to simmer and add chicken soup. (I use egg drop by the way, but
that's another step) While broth is warming, wash chicken as you
usually do. Add all seasonings except the peppers. Squeeze the lemon
for it's juice and toss it in without the seeds. When you can see
that the broth is just starting to boil every time the light goes
out, you know it's just right, below boiling temp. You don't want
this to boil unless you are in a hurry, want to do lots of pot
watching or you like tough chicken. No need to add salt or sugar
since there is usually more than enough already in the soup. The
chicken should not be covered in liquid, this is not intended to be
soup when you get done.

When you have the temp. fine tuned to true simmer, place the poultry
parts in the broth, meaty side up as possible. Sprinkle on the white
and red pepper, cover the pot and ignore it for as long as you wish
the longer the better, I usually shoot for at least 4 hours. Before
serving at least 20 min. before you want to eat, flip the meat and
add the rice. Check to make sure there is enough water, bring up to
original level if necessary. This should turn out fairly thick, and
not soup because the rice absorbs most or all of the liquid. Stir it
in well and cover again. When the rice is done it's finished. Spoon
out rice onto plates and place poultry on the side of it. I like to
serve this with a large tossed salad, using Olive Oil, 1 T lemon
juice, 2T Oregano, and 1 clove garlic, or garlic powder. (See Porro's
Italian Salad for details)

I use Cajun seasoning, but wanted this to have a more general appeal,
if you like it hotter, go for it. Sort of a Cajun/Italian recipe.
Some other notes and options. 2 t of parsley won't hurt. Also
optional: (it's not cast in stone, add what you like) fresh sliced
mushrooms. I confess, I never measure any of the above, it's all done
by taste, do the same please! Anytime you use fresh spices it will
taste better.

Why I make and eat this. 1) For sporting events, one never knows for
certain when it will be time to eat. Also if you have company that
shows up late on a regular basis, this type of cooking and be on hold
for extended periods of time, without harm. 2) No stove. 3) The slow
cooking will make even a laying hen edible. 4) For a whomped up one
pot, one plate dinner it actually has some taste to it.  5) Sometimes
I want something that is easy and doesn't need tending, this is it.
Probably best for family cooking rather than guests. 6) When I was
cooking for three teens I never knew if any two would every be at
home for dinner at the same time. It keeps well for hours after
adding the rice.

