Title: PUMPKIN CHEESE SOUP
Categories: Soup/stew, Usenet
Yield: 6 servings
1    Pumpkin (big enough
-to hold 6-10
-servings of soup)
2 tb Butter, melted
2 tb Butter
1 lg Onion, chopped
2 lg Carrots, shredded
2    Celery sticks, chopped
4 c  Vegetable broth
1    Garlic clove, minced
1/4 ts Salt
1/4 ts Pepper
1/4 ts Nutmeg
3/4 c  Cream, light
1 c  Cheddar or gruyere
-cheese, grated
1/3 c  White wine, dry
2 tb Parsley, minced
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F.  Butter a baking sheet.

Prepare pumpkin:  cut off the top, scoop out seeds, brush inside with
about 2 T melted butter. Replace top and place pumpkin on baking
sheet. Bake 45 mins or until tender when pierced with a fork. The
pumpkin should be a bit droopy but still hold its shape well.

Meanwhile, melt about 2 T butter in a big saucepan.  Add onion,
carrots, celery.  Saute until soft, about 10 mins.  Add broth,
garlic, salt, pepper and nutmeg. Cover and simmer 20 minutes. Cool
slightly.

Puree vegetable mixture in 2 or 3 batches in a blender or food
processor. Put back in saucepan; stir in the cream. Reheat. Add
cheese and wine, heat until cheese melts. Stir frequently after
adding milk to avoid scorching. Place hot pumpkin on serving platter.
Pour in soup.  Sprinkle with parsley.

Serve the soup by ladling out of the pumpkin at the table, scooping a
little bit of pumpkin into each serving. The pumpkin then makes a
great centerpiece for your table, while allowing people to have
second helpings.

NOTES:

*  Cheese soup in a pumpkin shell -- This recipe came from the 1983
Half Moon Bay Pumpkin Festival and was published in our local
newspaper in 1984.

*  I use half gruyere and half cheddar.  Shred the cheeses very
finely so they will melt rapidly. After the soup is all gone, the
pumpkin can be cut up, washed, and used in pumpkin pie. It may need
more baking to become soft enough to puree for the pies.

*  It was impossible to find pumpkins after Halloween near San
Francisco, but fortunately they keep for a month until Thanksgiving
in a cool area if left uncut.

*  In North America, light cream is often called half and half.

: Difficulty:  moderate.
: Time:  1 hour.
: Precision:  approximate measurement OK.

: Judy Anderson
: Lucid, Inc., Menlo Park, California, USA
: decwrl!spar!edsel!yduJ

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

