Title: Raspberry Sauce #29
Categories: Chocolate, Salsa/sauce, Desserts
Yield: 1 servings
*INGREDIENTS*
1 pt Raspberries, fresh
2 tb Water
1/4 c  Sugar
2 tb Corn syrup, light
*** My notes:  I used whole, frozen raspberries for this- NOT the kind
frozen with sugar added!  I used a pint berry container to measure,
so I'm not sure of how many cups that is.  The sauce was delicious!
Fresh berries were unavailable at the time.

Notes:  This is the most luxurious of all fruit sauces, for here we
cheat nature by removing the thorns on the rose of the fruit world-
the seeds of the raspberry.  Most raspberry sauces depend so much on
sugar and thickening agents to achieve proper texture that they dull
the fruit's naturally sharp flavor.  Here the sauce is thickened with
the pulp of the berries themselves, creating a fruity, velvety,
gleaming sauce worth making for the scent in your kitchen alone!
Remember all fresh raspberries are not created equal; you may need to
reduce the sauce more or less depending on their moisture content.

1. Put raspberries and water in saucepan and bring to a boil over
medium heat.  Use wooden spoon to stir in sugar, and cook for 5
minutes, till berries are completely broken down.

2. Pour berries into strainer over small bowl; allow to cool.  Then
press through as much of the remaining juice and pulp as possible,
till nothing remains in strainer but dry seeds.  You may use a spoon
or rubber spatula for this, but your best tool here is your fingers,
rubbing the pulp up the sides of the strainer.  Occasionally scrape
the accumulation on the underside into the juice.  You may need to
repeat this to remove all the seeds; if you do, whisk strained
raspberries first.

3. Whisk the pulp and juice together with the corn syrup, and return
to saucepan.  Cook over medium heat another 10 minutes to clear sauce
and reduce it to 1 cup.  Put in storage container and refrigerate.
Serve cold.

About keeping:  Will last up to 2 weeks, refrigerated, but if reboiled
weekly will last several weeks longer.

Yield:  1 cup sauce.

Source:  Chocolate Fantasy Desserts by Robert Lambert

