Title: RED WINE APPLE PIE
Categories: Desserts, Alcohol
Yield: 6 servings
5 c  Tart apples,cored/thin slice
1/4 c  Sweet red wine
1/4 c  All-purpose flour
1/8 ts Salt
2 c  All-purpose flour(see NOTE1)
1 ts Salt
2 tb Shortening
5 tb Cold water
3/4 c  Sugar
1 tb Lemon juice
2 tb Sugar
3 tb Butter or margarine
1 c  Shredded Cheddar cheese
2/3 c  Shortening
2/3 c  Lard
Place apples. 3/4 cup sugar, the wine and lemon juice in 3-quart
saucepan. Cover and cook over medium heat, stirring occasionally,
until apples are just tender, 7 to 8 minutes.
Mix 1/4 cup flour, 2 tablespoons sugar and 1/8 teaspoon salt; stir
into apple mixture. Heat to boiling, stirring constantly. Boil and
stir 1 minute. Remove from heat. Stir in butter. Cool to room
temperature.
Heat oven to 425'. Measure 2 cups flour, the cheese and 1 teaspoon
salt into bowl; cut in shortening or lard. Sprinkle in water, 1
tablespoon at a time, mixing until all flour is moistened and pastry
almost cleans side of bowl (1 to 2 teaspoons water can be added if
necessary.)
Gather pastry into ball; divide in half and shape into 2 flattened
rounds on lightly floured cloth-covered board. Roll one round 2
inches larger than inverted 8-inch pie plate with floured
stockinet-covered rolling pin. Fold pastry into quarters; place in
pie plate. Unfold and ease into pie plate.
Turn apple mixture into pastry-lined pie plate. Trim overhanging edge
of pastry 1/2 inch from rim of pie plate. Roll second round of
pastry. Fold into quarters; cut slits so steam can escape. Place over
filling and unfold. Trim overhanging edge of pastry 1 inch from rim
of pie plate. Fold and roll top edge under lower edge, pressing on
rim to seal; flute. Cover edge with 2- to 3-inch strip of sluminum
foil to prevent excess browning. Bake 25 to 30 minutes; remove foil.
Bake 15 minutes.
NOTE1: If using self-rising flour, omit 1 teaspoon salt. Pie crusts
made with self-rising flour difer in flavor and texture from those
made with plain flour.
NOTE2: If desired, 1 package (11 ounces) pie crust mix or sticks can
be substituted for the pastry.

