Title: ROASTED RED PEPPERS
Categories: Vegetables, Usenet
Yield: 4 servings
1 lb Red peppers, fresh
-(sweet red capsicum
-peppers)
1/4 c  Lemon juice
Salt
Preheat broiler as hot as you can get it.  Turn red peppers under the
broiler until their skins come up in black bubbles. Cool the peppers
until you can handle them comfortably.

Remove the skins, stems, cores and seeds.  (This is messy work.  I
have tried removing the innards first, before putting the peppers
under the broiler, and the result is not so good as this way.)

Cut the peppers into finger shapes.  Flavor them with fresh lemon
juice and salt.  Let them sit for several hours, draining off the
liquid that forms.

NOTES:

*  A low-calorie but flavorful red pepper salad -- Safeway got in
their first carload of really cheap red peppers yesterday, and I made
roasted pepper salad.

Serve this at room temperature as a side dish for anything Nicoise or
Spanish or Greek or Egyptian. Or make a meal of them by adding a bowl
of yoghurt, a bowl of chopped onion, some black olives, radishes and
pistachios, and lots of warm pita bread. Or use it with sauteed
garlic and pitted black olives and a little reduced white wine as a
spaghetti sauce. Yield:  Serves 4.

*  Now.  Here is the real point about this recipe:  These roasted
peppers are insanely delicious, smooth and unctuous and aromatic, and
yet they contain absolutely no calories. A full-sized red pepper is
only 15 calories.

*  Of course I could lose weight if I never ate more than three
tablespoons of anything. Any fool could do that. But I don't want to
confine myself to three tablespoons.  Perhaps my taste buds work more
slowly that other people's.  I don't seem to get the hang of what I'm
eating till the second serving, or sometimes the third.

*  At the same time, I want things that are really voluptuous and
good to eat, full of interesting, complicated flavors that will
satisfy me and make me feel happy and rewarded. Again, any fool could
lose weight by eating celery stalks and carrots. Unfortunately, any
number of carrot sticks over six makes me grumpish, and raw celery
turns me positively surly in short order unless accompanied by
delicious, fattening sour cream and cream cheese.

: Difficulty:  easy.
: Time:  15 minutes preparation, several hours aging.
: Precision:  no need to measure.

: Mary-Claire van Leunen
: DEC Systems Research Center, Palo Alto, California, USA
: mcvl@src.dec.com  -or- decwrl!decsrc!mcvl

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

