Title: Seedless Blackberry Jam
Categories: Can/preserv, Fruit
Yield: 6 servings
6 c  Ripe blackberries
2 1/2 c  Tart apples; coarse chopped
-(2 to 3 medium, include
-skins and cores)
1 1/2 c  Water, or more as needed
3 tb Fresh lemon juice; strained
-or more to taste
5 c  Granulated sugar (about)
Wash six half pint jars. Keep hot until needed. Prepare lids as
manufacturer directs.

Place half the berries in a large pot; crush them with a potato
masher or heavy bottle. Add remaining berries and crush them. Or chop
the berries briefly in a food processor.

Add the apples and the 1-1/2 cups water to the berries. Cook the
mixture uncovered over medium low heat stirring often, until the
fruit is very soft, 15 to 20 minutes. Add up to 1/2 cup more water if
the fruit threatens to stick to the pan; stir the fruit almost
constantly.

Set a food mill with a fine disc (or use a medium mesh sieve) over a
bowl. Force the hot fruit through the sieve, using the back of a
spoon or a rubber spatula; discard the seeds. Rinse out the pot.
Measure the fruit pulp back into the pot; you should have about 5
cups. Taste the pulp; add enough lemon juice to make the fruit
pleasantly tart. Stir in 1 cup of granulated sugar for each cup of
pulp.

Heat the mixture over medium high heat to boiling, stirring until the
sugar dissolves. Cook the jam rapidly, stirring frequently, until it
reaches 220 degrees F on a candy thermometer (216 degrees at 2,000
feet; 214 degrees at 3,000 feet, etc.).

Ladle the hot jam into one jar at a time, leaving 1/4-inch head
space. Wipe jar rim with a clean, damp cloth. Attach lid. Fill and
close remaining jars. Process in boiling water bath for 10 minutes
(15 minutes at 1,001 to 3,000 feet, 20 minutes at 3,001 to 6,000
feet.)

Fully ripe blackberries, loganberries, boysenberries or Marionberries
are used instead of slightly under ripe berries because the apples
supply the pectin needed to make it jell, and the lemon juice
provides a welcome tartness. The result is a preserve that captures
the full flavor of the berry. A delicious filling for tiny tars or
layer cake.

Makes about 6 half pints

Source: From Fancy Pantry by Helen Witty. Published in the Oregonian
Foodday by Jan Roberts-Dominguez Typos by Dorothy Flatman 1995
Submitted By DOROTHY FLATMAN   On   07-21-95

