Title: Steps To Perfect Muffins
Categories: Information, Muffins
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM------------------------MUFFIN TIPS-----------------------------
Muffins are simple and quick to make. Most can be prepared in 10 to 15
minutes and baked in 20 to 25 minutes. They are a perfect
accompaniment for any meal.

Preheat the oven. Most muffins are best when baked at 375 to 425
degrees F. Make sure your oven rack is placed about one third up from
the bottom.

Prepare pans: Grease muffin cups well or line with cupcake liners. A
nonstick baking pan can be sprayed with nonstick cooking spray.

Assemble ingredients: Have things chopped and grated before you begin
to mix. Have eggs, liquid and fat at room temperature if possible.

Assemble utensils: you will need one large bowl, approximately 10
inches in diameter; one medium bowl, approximately 8 inches in
diamter; measuring cups for dry ingredients; a glass measuring cup to
liquid ingredients; a set of measuring spoons; a wire whisk or fork;
one spatula; and a large spoon.

Measure ingredients: Add egg(s), liquids and oil or other fat to
medium bowl. Measure dry ingredients into large bowl; stir well to
combine.

Mix: Add wet to dry ingredients, mixing just until the dry
ingredients are moistened, 15 to 20 light strokes with a spoon. There
should be some lumps. (Do not over mix or muffins will have elongated
holes, called tunnels, and peaked tops; they will turn out tough and
chewy.)

Fill cups: Immediately spoon batter into muffin cups, filling between
2/3 and 3/4 full. Fill any empty cups with a small amount of water.

Bake: Place filled muffin cups in oven. To test for doneness, insert a
wooden pick or the tip of a small sharp knife into the center of one
muffin; if it comes out clean, the muffins are done. Muffins may also
begin to pull away from the sides of the pan.

Cool and serve: Let muffins cool a few minutes in the pan before
carefully removing. Most muffins are best served warm.

CHANGING MUFFINS TO QUICK BREAD The batters for muffins and quick
breads are almost identical and are interchangeable. Muffins are
baked around 400 degrees F from 18 to 25 minutes; quick breads are
baked at 350 degrees F from 45 minutes to 1 hour and 15 minutes,
depending on the amount of batter and the type of pan used. A basic
recipe for a dozen muffins will fill and 8 or 9 inch loaf pan. fill
bread pans or muffin cups 2/3 to 3/4 full. Test the center of the
loaf or muffin for doneness by using a wooden pick or small knife; it
it comes out clean, the loaf is done.

Source: Sharom Maasdam, FoodDay home economist Typos by Dorothy
Flatman 1995
Submitted By DOROTHY FLATMAN   On   07-04-95

