Title: Substitutes and Suggestions for Gluten Free Living #2
Categories: Information, Allergy
Yield: 1 servings
For cookies, mix wheat
-starch and soy flour in
-any proportion in the
-amount called for in the
-original recipe.
Use your own allowed granola mix to replace nuts and give crunchiness
to cookies. In recipes calling for milk or water, heat these liquids
slightly before adding to dry ingredients. Shortening may also be
melted in this warm liquid which will cut down on mixing times.

For bread recipes, double the amounts called for and make several
small loaves. They freeze well. Since the loaves dry out in about two
day, cut your loaves into pieces before freezing and defrost these as
needed.

Use crushed cornflakes or crisp rice cereals for crumbing foods or in
desserts such as apple crisps and pie crusts.  Use potato chips for
casseroles. A banana blends ingredients together well.

Batters made from flours other than wheat may appear much thinner or
much thicker than batters made from wheat flours. Cakes made with
substitute flours other than wheat tend to be dry.  The moisture can
be preserved by icing the cake or by storing them tightly covered.

Meat cookies can be quickly made by just mixing a jar of baby meat
with rice or other pablum, and adding 1/2 tsp baking powder. Bake in
moderate oven for about 10 minutes.

The thickening sauces, gravies or puddings, substitute one of the
following for 1 tbsp wheat flour: 1/2 tbsp cornstarch, 1/2 tbsp potato
starch flour, 1/2 tbsp rice starch, 1/2 tbsp arrowroot starch, 2 tsp
quick cooking tapioca, 2 tsp tapioca flour.

Wheat free spaghettie and noodles are available in specialty stores.
Chinese bean threads are an acceptable substitute for spaghetti, as is
spaghetti squash. And equal amount of frozen french fries may be
substituted in a casserole to replace macaroni, spaghetti or noodles.

To bread fish, chops and chicken, dip meat into rice flour, diluted
evaporated milk, then into allowed crumbs.  Refrigerate one hour
before cooking. You can make your own 'breading' mixture.  Mix 1 cup
of recommended flour, 1 cup allowed bread crumbs, 1 tsp seasoned
salt, 1/4 tsp pepper, 1/4 tsp spice. Keep in plastic bags in the
refrigerator or freezer. Hold meat together in patties or meat loaf
with cooked oatmeal, grated nuts or potato.

Origin: The Allergy Cookbook. Shared by: Sharon Stevens, July/95.

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On    7-03-95

