Title: Substitutes and Suggestions for Gluten Free Living #1
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 servings
Coarser meals and gluten
-free or wheat free flours
-need more leavening.
* * * * * * * * * * * * * *
It is advisable to use
-2-1/2 tsp of baking powder
-to each cup of coarse
-flour.
Never use soy flour alone; always use it in combination with another
flour. When using gluten free flour especially, let the dough sit for
1/2 to 1 hour or overnight in the refrigerator.  This softens it and
produces a better finished product. Look for recipes which use a
small amount of wheat flour in combination with another type of
flour, such as cornmeal or oatmeal.  It is easier then to substitute
another flour for the wheat flour. To avoid graininess in rice flour
and cornmeal, mix with the liquid in recipes, bring to a boil and
cool before mixing with other ingredients.

Recipes calling for cake flours are especially adaptable since they
usually do not depend upon gluten for their structure. If using
celimix, try substituting 1/2 cup arrowroot flour or 1/2 cup
buckwheat flour in place of 1/2 cup of the mix, then just use the
recipe as per package directions. This makes a less crumbly loaf.
Keep non wheat baked products in the refrigerator to lessen
crumbliness. Some cookie and cake recipes can take unsifted rice
flour substituted directly into the recipe. To make rice flour cakes
more moist add a synthetic whipped cream powder to the dry
ingredients and increase the liquid until the batter is 'wet' enough.
Use gelatin as a binder in breads.  It works well in rice flour
recipes. Soften the gelatin in half the water the recipe calls for,
then heat it just enough to dissolve the gelatin.  Then add the
gelatin mixture to the rest of the liquid and finish the recipe. Fill
the smaller (neck) end of your turkey with stuffing made from
allergen-free bread for the allergic member of the household.

Binder for meat loaf and meat patties can be made of rice flour, or 1
cup puffed rice to 1 pound of ground meat, or an egg, or instant
mashed potatoes. Recipes not containing wheat need long, slow baking,
expecially if egg and milk are not used.

Origin: The Allergy Cookbook. Shared by: Sharon Stevens, July/95.

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On    7-03-95

