Title: Swedish Tea Ring
Categories: Breadmaker, Breads, Fruit, Cake/cookie
Yield: 8 servings
1 c  Warm milk
1    Egg, slightly beaten
3 c  Bread flour
1/3 c  Sugar
4 tb Butter, cut up
1 ts Salt
1 pk Active dry or rapid-rise
-yeast
FILLING:
3    To 4 tablespoons soft butter
1/2 c  Chopped candied cherries
1/2 c  Golden or dark raisins
1/2 c  Chopped walnuts or pecans
1/2 c  Sugar
1 ts Ground cinnamon
From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING

"Bread Machines" article by Beatrice Ojakangas; author of Great
Holiday Baking Book and the forthcoming Light Muffins (Clarkson N.
Potter).

I like to make this sweet coffeebread for coffee parties. With the
bread machine mixing and kneading the dough for me, there is a lot
less mess in the kitchen, and the dough comes out at the perfect
temperature for quick rising.

DOUGH:

Measure the dough ingredients into the container of the bread machine
in the order given. (Reverse the order in machines which call for
adding the liquids last of all).

Set the machine to the "dough" cycle and press start.

About 1-1/2 hours later when dough is ready, coat a work surface
lightly with nonstick cooking spray.

Turn dough out onto the surface and pat and roll out to about 16 x 20
inches. Spread with the butter and sprinkle with the cherries,
raisins and nuts. Mix the sugar and cinnamon and sprinkle over.

Roll the dough up to enclose the filling, starting from the 20-inch
side. Seal the roll. Place on a lightly greased baking pan and pinch
the ends together to make a wreath shape. With a pair of scissors
make cuts almost all the way through the roll from the outside toward
the center every 1/2 inch. Pull the cut dough circles outward and lay
them down with a cut side up.

Let rise in a warm place for about 45 minutes until puffy. Preheat
the oven to 375-F. Bake the tea ring for 20 to 25 minutes until
golden. Remove from the oven and cool on a rack. Frost with a
powdered sugar and milk icing, if desired. Serve warm.

Source: Good Taste (July 1995).

