Title: The Art of Smoking - Part 3
Categories: Bbq/grill, Poultry
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM----------------SMOKED POULTRY AND GAME BIRD---------------------
Birds are easy to smoke.
-They require little
-preparation, and
There is no difficulty in
-judging when they are
-ready to eat.
They are delicious eaten
-hot from the oven or, with
-minimal care,
They can be refrigerated or
-frozen and kept in perfect
-condition
Until required.
MMMMM--------------------------CHICKEN-------------------------------
For those who can raise their own chickens, the ideal size for
smoke-roasting is 4 to 6 pounds dressed weight.  If chickens are
purchased, whole-bodied or split fryers are best, although cut-up
chicken can be used. Splitting: Stand the fryer on the cutting block,
head-end down, tail in the air, with its breast turned away from the
cutting hand. With a heavy knife, cut right down the back, and spread
the carcass open. Do not turn the bird around.  Cut right down the
breastbone, splitting the fryer cleanly in halves.  This cut is easy
with a strong, really sharp knife. Seasoning: Liberally sprinkle both
sides of each half with Basic seasoning. If the skin is so dry that
the seasoning will not adhere, moisten it with water before applying
the seasoning. Smoking: The smoke oven should be heated to a
temperture between 200 F and 225 F before the chicken is inserted.
Lay the halves skin-side down on the racks. Examine the skin from
time to time. When it is light amber, baste the chicken halves with
butter and turn them over. Leave the halves skin-side up, and baste
twice more with butter until the skin is a rich, golden amber color.
Towards the end of the smoking process, occasionally give the leg
bone a gentle twist. When the bone turns easily in its socket, the
chicken is properly cooked. This is an infallible test.  Even if
there is still a slight redness in the joint, the bird is now in
ideal condition for eating. Use of an Ordinary Oven: Some smoke ovens
may not get hot enough to cook chicken properly. Then leave the
fryers in the smoke oven, basting and turning as already described,
until the skin is fully colored, by which time the meat is partially
cooked, and the smoke flavor is absorbed. Transfer the birds to the
kitchen oven, set it at 350 F and cook until the leg bone turns
easily in the socket. For this finishing-off process, the bird should
be enclosed in a covered roaster, or carefully wrapped in metal foil
with the edges well crimped. These precautions will help to conserve
moisture++an advantage of smoke cooking that should not be thrown
away. As an additional precaution against drying out, a tablespoon of
water may be added to the foil package or roaster. A covered roaster
is the more convenient, since foil wrapping hinders use of the
leg-twisting test for doneness. Serving and Storage: Smoked chicken
may be served hot or cold.  Allow at least one pound per serving.
Smoked chicken, like all other poultry and game birds, keeps well
when frozen-as long as 6 or 8 months with proper methods. Place each
piece in a plastic bag, or wrap in aluminum foil and freeze at 0 F.
Frozen, foil-wrapped chicken will keep several days after removal
from the freezer, even in warm weather.  It makes an excellent food
to take on picnics or hunting parties. Reheating: To rehat frozen
smoked chicken, put about a tablespoon of water in the foil package,
double the edges of the foil over and crimp them tightly with the
fingers. Thus the steam is kept in, the warming process is pseeded,
and the chicken emerges moist and succulent. Alternatively, the
chicken may be reheated in a dutch oven or covered roaster, with a
tablespoon of water added to ensure ample moisture. There are some
other suggestions applicable to fixing delicious chicken. For a
stronger smoke flavor, start with the smoke oven at 85 to 95 F and
leave the chicken halves until they are nicely colored on both sides,
then raise the oven temperature to 200 to 225 F and complete the
cooking described above. The half-chicken makes a convenient portion
for one person. But whole chicken can be smoked just as well.  So can
the pieces, legs, thighs, breasts, now sold in many markets.
Procedure is the same. Apply Basic Seasoning, baste several times
while smoking.  Here too, a preheated oven produces medium smoke
flavor.  For stronger flavor, give a preliminary cold-smoking.  As
with the half-birds, guard against letting the meat get dry during
cooking in an ordinary oven, during cold storage, or while reheating.
Especially fine for smoking is the capon. It is more tender than
other fowl; its fat is distributed throughout the lean tissues
instead of being concentrated in pockets.  Good capons may weigh from
6 to 8 pounds. With home-raised chickens, it is very important to
chill them promptly after killing.  They are very hot-blooded birds
and, if not rapidly cooled, will soon start to deteriorate. From Jack
Sleight and Raymond Hull's "Home Book of Smoke Cooking Meat, Fish &
Game." ISBN 0-8117-2195-7

TO ALL  Submitted By DENISE LANGLOIS  SUBJ HELP! - NEW SMOKER GRILL
On
07-10-95

