Title: Vanilla Buttercream
Categories: Cake/cookie
Yield: 1 servings
2/3 c  Sugar
4 lg Egg yolks -- at room
-temperature
1 tb Water
1 c  Unsalted butter -- at room
-temperature
1 1/2 ts Vanilla extract
Cut butter into tablespoon-sized pieces. Set aside. In a medium-sized
metal bowl, whisk together sugar, egg yolks and water. Set bowl over
a saucepan of simmering water. Do not allow the bottom of the bowl to
touch the water. Whisk constantly until mixture registers 170~F on a
candy thermometer, about 4 minutes.

Remove bowl from over the water. Using an electric mixer set on high
speed, beat egg mixture until cool and thick, about 5 minutes.
Gradually add butter, about 1 tablespoon at a time, beating until
smooth after each addition. Beat in vanilla extract. If buttercream
appears broken or lumpy, set bowl back over simmering water for a few
seconds, then beat again until smooth.

To store, cover and refirgerate for up to 2 days. Before using, let
stand at room temperature until softened. If necessary, rewarm over a
saucepan of simmering water for a few seconds, then beat until
smooth. Makes about 2 1/3 cups.

Variations: Coconut flavor: Omit water and whisk in 3 tablespoons
canned sweetened cream of coconut with the sugar and egg yolks. Then
add 1 teaspoon imitation coconut extract with the vanilla extract.
Mix 1/2 cup toasted sweetened shredded coconut into the finished
buttercream.

Coffee flavor:  Stir in 2 teaspoons instant espresso powder when the
cooked egg mixture is removed from the heat, then beat as directed.

Orange flavor:  Add 1 tablespoon grated orange zest with the vanilla
extract.

Vanilla bean flavor:  Cut 1 vanilla bean in half lengthwise and,
using the tip of a sharp knife, scrape the seeds from the bean into
the finished buttercream; beat in the seeds to distribute evenly.

From Williams-Sonoma Kitchen Library Typed for you by Marjorie
Scofield 6/23/95

: From Cakes, Cupcakes, Cheesecakes
Recipe By

Date: 06-30-95 (23:08) (18)
From: Marjorie Scofield
(E)Recipes

