Title: Vegetarian Vietnamese Spring Rolls  - Pt. 2
Categories: Appetizers, Vietnamese
Yield: 6 servings  * (Banh Cuon Chay Viet Nam). 1. Make the dipping sauce first. Combine
all the ingredients and stir thoroughly. 2. Soak the vermicelli in
boiled water, slightly cooled, until soft. Drain thoroughly. Use
kitchen scissorts to cut into shorter strands. 3. Soak the Chinese
mushrooms oand the light and black wood ear fungus in boiled water,
slightly cooled. When soft drain thoroughly, gently squeezing out any
excess water. Cuf finely. If using button mushrooms, wash, drain and
chop finely. 4. Place the vermicelli, water chestnuts, garlic,
carrot, onion, light and black wood ear fungus, Nuoc Mam sauce, black
pepper, and egg in a large mixing bowl. With your hands, mix and
knead the mixture until it is stiff enough to be shaped. 5. Place
some boiled water that has cooled slightly in a largebowl. Spread a
clean tea towel on the surface you are going to roll on.  If using
the quadrant Banh Trang rice paper, take one piece and dip it into
the water. Place it on the tea towel.  Tak 6. Place the second piece
of rice paper on the first.  The rounded edge of the quadrant should
be at the bottom facing you and the second piece placed about 2
inches above but overlapping. Place a small amount of the mixture
where the pieces overlap at 7. Carefully roll the bottom rounded edge
over the mixture, tucking the edge under the mixture.  Fold over the
left and right sides to the middle, then roll the parcel away from
you.  Repeat these three steps until all the mixture has been used.
Be care 8. If using the round rice paper, pass it through the water
and place it on the tea towel. Put some mixture roughtly in the
center but closer to the edge nearest to you. Form the mixture into a
sausage shape.  Fold the bottom edge up and over the mixtu 9. When
all the rolls are ready, heat the oil until hot in a large skillet.
Shallow fry, turning frequently, until the mixture is cooked, taking
care not to burn the rice paper.If you wish to deep-fry, put less
filling in the rolls to ensure it is thoro 10. Place the rolls in the
center of a lettuce leaf with some mint, cilantro, and cucumber. Roll
up and dip into the sauce while still hot. Formatted by Olivia
Liebermann.

: "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
Recipe By
Books
see part 1 for ingredients

