Title: Vix Vivax
Categories: Breads, Fruit, Nuts/grains
Yield: 4 loaves
MMMMM----------------ROMULAN RAISIN WALNUT BREAD---------------------
4 c  Milk
1/2 c  Butter
1/2 c  Sugar
2 ea Tb Light molasses
2 ts Salt
3/4 c  Sour cream
2 ea Pk Dry yeast
13 c  Flour (more or less)
2 c  Golden raisins
2 c  Walnuts; coarsely chopped
1 ea Egg; for glaze
***This makes 4 loaves of
-bread
Scald the milk. Add the butter, sugar, molasses and salt. Let it cool
for about 10 minutes and add the sour cream, beating with a wire
whisk to mix it all thoroughly. Pour it into a large bowl. When the
liquid is cool enough so that a drop on the inside of your wrist is
not hot enough to hurt, add the yeast. (if you add yeast to the hot
mixture, you will kill the yeast and the bread will not rise.) Add
about 5 cups of flour, 1 cup at a time, and mix it well with the
liquid, breaking up lumps as you mix. Add raisins and walnuts. Add
flour, 1 cup at a time, until the dough is no longer very sticky; it
should be right when you have added about 12 cups. Sprinkle out about
1/4 to 1/2 cup flour onto a clean board or countertop. Dump the dough
onto the floury place and scrape out the bowl onto the dough. Wash,
dry and grease the bowl. Now, knead the dough for about 15 to 20
minutes using up the last of the flour. It should feel stretchy and
elastic. Put the dough into the greased bowl and grease the top.
Cover it will a damp cloth and set it in a warm place to rise. It may
take as much as 2 hours until it is double in bulk. When it has
doubled in bulk, flour a place on the counter, dump it out and knead
it again for about 5 minutes. Divide the dough into 4 equal parts and
grease 4 bread pans. Shape the dough into loaves and put 1 in each
pan. Cover the pans with a damp cloth and let the dough rise until
about double in bulk, about 1 hour. Preheat the oven to 325 degrees,
brush the tops of the loaves with beaten egg, and put them in the
oven. Bake at 325 for 30 minutes and then at 300 degrees for another
30 minutes. The loaves will sound "hollow" when tapped when they are
done. Take them out of the oven as soon as they are done. Turn them
out of the pan onto cake racks. The bread is best served warm, but it
may be cooled and then frozen to save. FROM: JOANNE FERRY (CMSJ69B)

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On    7-09-95

