Title: COUNTRY PATE
Categories: Appetizers, Pork, Meats
Yield: 3 Servings
1 1/2 lb Boneless pork, ground fine
-twice
1 lb Boneless veal, ground fine
-twice
3/4 c  Dry white wine
2 tb Brandy
2 tb Oil
Salt
Freshly ground black pepper
2 lg Onions, sliced thin
2 sm Cloves garlic, halved
1 lb Fresh pork fatback, sliced
-thin
1    Cornichon pickle for garnish
Servings: Makes about 3 lbs From: Sallie Krebs

DIRECTIONS: In a large bowl, combine the pork and veal. Mix the wine,
brandy and oil with salt and pepper to taste, and pour the mixture
over the meats. Scatter the onions and garlic on top. Cover the bowl
tightly and refrigerate it for at least 24 hours.

Preheat the oven to 375-F. Discard the onions, but put the garlic
through a press and knead it into the meats together with the wine
mixture. Break off a small piece of meat and fry it in a lightly
oiled skillet over moderate heat for 3 or 4 minutes, or until its
juices run clear, without a trace of pink. Taste the piece and, if
you like, add more garlic, salt and pepper. (Pork is unsafe to eat
uncooked; do not taste the meats raw.)

Slightly overlapping the slices, line the bottom and sides of a
2-quart terrine mold or a 7 1/2 x 3 1/2 x 2 1/2 inch loaf pan with
the fatback. Pack the meat mixture into the mold, and arrange the
remaining slices of fatback on top of it. Fit foil over the mold, or
cover the meat mixture with foil and a lid. To let steam escape,
pierce a hole in the foil with a skewer. If you are using a lid,
insert the skewer through its hole to puncture the foil.

Set the mold on a rack in a large pan or dish. Place them all in the
oven, and pour enough almost-boiling water into the pan to cover 2/3
of the mold. Bake for 2 hours or until the pate shrinks slightly from
the sides of the mold and the surrounding fat and juices are a clear
yellowish white with no traces of pink. Or insert a meat thermometer;
it should register 160-F when the pate is done.

Take the pate from the oven, but leave the foil in place. Set the
pate on a rack to cool to room temperature. Then put another pan with
a heavy can or weights inside it, or even a brick, on top of the pate
to compact the meats. Chill the pate thoroughly (overnight is best)
with the weights in place. Before serving, cut the cornichon into a
fan shape, slicing lengthwise through the pickle 4 or 5 times to
within 1/2 inch of one end. Spread the slices into a fan, and garnish
the pate with it.

Source: Best Recipes from Time-Life Books, ISBN# 0-517-06502-9
Originally from: Great Dinners from Life

