Title: COUSCOUS WITH CHICKPEAS & VEGETABLES
Categories: Bulgur, Morocco, Vegetables
Yield: 6 Servings
1/2 c  Chickpeas -- dried
2 tb Virgin olive oil
2    Cloves garlic -- crushed
1    Onion -- chopped
1 ts Ground cinnamon
1 ts Paprika
1 ts Ground cumin
2    Carrots -- sliced 1/4"
4    Baby turnips
4 c  Sweet potato -- chunks
1 c  Tomato juice -- or less
1 1/2 c  Vegetable broth
3    Sliced zucchini
(courgettes)
1/4 c  Dried apricots
8    Button mushrooms
2 tb Chopped parsley
Salt -- to taste
Freshly ground black pepper
To taste
1 c  Water
1 1/3 c  Couscous -- instant
3 tb Golden raisins --
(sultanas)
Chopped chives -- for
Garnish
Yellow rose petals -- for
Garnish,
Optional
PREPARATION (2 hours or overnight) - Rinse peas and sort. Place in a
bowl, cover with boiling water and soak for a t least 1 hour or
overnight. Drain, place in a large saucepan and cover with fresh
water. Cover (lid) and bring to a boil. Cook over medium heat until
tender, about 1 hour. Drain and set aside.

COOKING  (40 minutes) - Heat 1 tablespoon of the oil in a large,
heavy-bottomed saucepan over low-medium heat. Add the garlic, onion,
cinnamon, paprika and cumin. Cook, stirring occasionally, until
theonion is soft, about 3 minutes. - Add the carrots, turnips and
sweet potatoes and cook, stirring continuously, for 5 minutes. - Add
the tomato juice and stock and bring to a boil. Cover, reduce the
heat and simmer for 15 minutes. Add the chickpeas, okra/squash,
apricots, mushrooms and parsley and simmer until the vegetables are
tender, about 10-12 minutes. Season to taste with the salt and
pepper. - Bring the water to a boil in a large saucepan. Add the
couscous and sultanas and mix well with a fork. Remove the pan from
the heat and let stand for 2 minutes to allow pasta toswell. Add the
remaining oil to center of the couscous, return pan to heat and cook
over medium heat, stirring until heated through, about 4 minutes. -
Spoon couscous around the edge of a serving dish. Garnish with the
chives. Spoon chickpea and vegetable mixture in the center and
sprinkle with rose petals, if using. Serve immediately.

490    cals | 10 g of fat. Recipe By
: World's Finest:  Pasta and Grains (1996)

