Title: CRAB RICE
Categories: China, Seafood
Yield: 6 Servings
Stephen Ceideburg
2    Green onions, chopped
1    Piece fresh ginger, 2-3 cm,
-grated
4 tb Dry sherry
3 tb Light soy sauce
3    Blue crabs
400 g  Glutinous rice
1 tb Soy sauce
1 tb Oil
1 ts Sugar
The Chinese have comfort food, too, and this dish qualifies. You will
need a large steamer; if you don't yet have one, they can be bought
cheaply in large Chinese or Vietnamese food stores where you can also
pick up the glutinous rice. The dish takes considerably longer to
cook than the previous recipes but little more of the cook's time. By
the time the rice is cooked, it is saturated with crab flavour.

Finely chop 2 green (spring) onions and grate 2-3 cms of fresh ginger.
Combine them with 4 tablespoons dry sherry and 3 tablespoons light soy
sauce. Prepare three green blue swimmers crabs. Chop two of them into
several pieces with a large knife or cleaver and crack the hardest
pieces of the shell with a hammer. Crack the third crab thoroughly
all over but do not chop up. Pour the sherry-soy sauce mixture over
the crabs and leave to marinate for an hour. Wash 400 grams glutinous
rice in several changes of water until the water runs clear.

Put the rice into a saucepan and pour over it 1.5 L water. Bring to
the boil and boil for 5 minutes. Drain.

In the bottom of a heatproof dish at least 12 cm deep and of a size
to fit into your steamer, pack in the chopped crab pieces, reserving
the marinade. Pour the rice over the top and pack it down. Press the
intact crab into the top of the rice. To the marinade, add a further
tablespoon soy sauce and a tablespoon oil, teaspoon salt and 1
teaspoon sugar. Pour over the crabs and rice.

Put the dish in the steamer over boiling water and steam for 35-40
minutes. Serve. Diners deal first with the top crab, now half buried
in rice, then fish around, for the rest of the crab pieces in rice.

From an article by Meryl Constance in The Sydney Morning Herald,
5/18/93. Courtesy Mark Herron.

