Title: CRAB CUSTARD WITH LEMON BUTTER SAUCE
Categories: Seafood, Appetizers, Eggs, French can, Armstrong
Yield: 1 Servings
1    Brocolli;bunch, medium
-cut into small florets
1/2 lb Crab meat;fresh or frozen
-trimmed of cartilege
3    Eggs
3/4 c  Whipping cream
3/4 c  Milk
-salt & ground white pepper
1 pn Nutmeg, ground
MMMMM---------------------LEMON BUTTER SAUCE--------------------------
1/2 c  White wine
1    Shallot, dry;finely chopped
1 c  Butter; cut in pieces
1/4 c  Whipping cream
1    Lemon;juice of
In this recipe Quebec snow crab is combined with brocolli,
oven-poached and served on a sauce, nouveau cuisine fashion. This
appetizer is the creation of Chef Denis Pelletier of Moulin de St.
Laurent, a contemporary French restaurant located in an old stone
mill in the village of St. Laurent on Ile d'Orleans. Ramekins can be
filled ahead and oven poached at the last minute, or you can reheat
the cooked flan in a microwave oven for about 2 minutes at Medium (50
percent).

Cook brocolli florets in boiling salted water just until
tender-crisp; drain. Generously brush 6 to 8 ramekin or custard cups
with melted butter.
Divide crab meat with brocolli among the ramekins. In a bowl, whisk
together the eggs, cream and milk; season with salt, pepper and
nutmeg. Fill ramekins three-quarters full with the custard and set in
a shallow pan of hot water. Oven poach for 1 hour at 325F or until
set. (A knife inserted in centre should come out clean.)
Make Lemon Butter Sauce and pour onto 6 to 8 serving plates. Run a
knife around the edge of each ramekin and unmold onto sauce.

Lemon Butter Sauce:
In small saucepan, heat wine and chopped shallot. Bring to a boil
and reduce over medium-high heat until only 2 tablespoons of liquid
remain. Reduce heat to low and whisk in butter, a few pieces at a
time, until sauce is smooth and all the butter is incorporated. Whisk
in cream and lemon juice. Keep warm in the top of a double boiler set
over hot water until serving time. MAKES: about 1 1/2 CUPS SAUCE

SERVES: 6-8 as an appetizer

SOURCE: _A Taste of Quebec_ by Julian Armstrong

