Title: CRAB-A-LEEKIE CREPES
Categories: Fish*shell
Yield: 4 Servings
MMMMM------------------------LEMON CREPES-----------------------------
3    Eggs
1 ts Sugar [optional]
2    Egg yolks
1/2 ts Salt
1/4 c  Lemon juice, fresh
1 1/2 ts Vegetable oil
3/4 c  Milk
2 ts Lemon rind, grated
1 c  All-purpose flour
MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
1 lb Crab or Imitation crab
1 c  Dry curd cottage cheese
1 sm Leek, thinly sliced
1/2 sm Tomato, finely diced
1 sm Lime - juice only
1 tb Balsamic vinegar
1 ts Salt
1 ts Seafood seasoning
MMMMM----------------------WHITE WINE SAUCE---------------------------
3 tb Butter
3 tb Flour
1/2 c  Chicken stock
1/2 c  Sour cream, or heavy cream
1/2 c  White wine
Salt & White pepper
Ingredient note: Imitation crab, has several commercial names but
generally consists of processed pollack with natural and imitation
flavouring. It is processed so as to resemble crab meat - a white
mean with a red exterior. This product is less expensive than natural
crab and makes an excellent substitute.

Lemon Crepes: Combine eggs, egg yolks, and lemon juice. Beat the
mixture to thoroughly combine ingredients and incorporate air into
the mixture. Add the milk and whisk again.

Sift flour, salt, sugar [if using]together in a separate bowl then
gradually incorporate into egg mixture. Add vegetable oil and blend
thoroughly. Batter should be very smooth and creamy. Do not allow
lumps to form [don't strained out lumps - they should be passed
through a sieve so as to break them down.)

Add grated lemon rind and allow the mixture to rest for one hour. If
mixture thickens during this period, 1-2 Tb of milk may be added. It
is important that the crepes do not become pancakes.

Use a large hot crepe pan [or lg round frying pan]. Add vegetable oil
to pan and swirl to coat. Gently pour in only sufficient batter to
coat the whole surface of the pan swirling to get a thin and even
coating. The crepe should be turned when the top is set and the
bottom is lightly browned. Only cook the other side until the desired
colour is achieved. Remove and set aside to cool.

Filling: Chop the crab, or imitation crab, into bite size chunks and
place in large mixing bowl. Thinly slice the white of 1 small leek.
Slicing should produce thin rounds. Press out the rounds so as to
separate the slice into small rings. Add to mixing bowl along with a
finely dice half of a small tomato.

To the mixture, add approx. 1 c of dry-curd cottage cheese, the
balsamic vinegar and the juice of one small lime. Add seasonings.
[The seafood seasoning is a commercial preparation available at most
stores.] Combine all ingredients in the bowl. Cover with plastic wrap
and allow to stand in fridge for up to 2 hrs.

Remove from fridge and toss lightly. Scoop out sufficient filling to
fill the centre of each crepe. Do not overfill. Roll the crepes up
into packages and place in a microwave dish, seam side down. Allow to
stand while making sauce.

Sauce: In top of double-boiler, over medium-high heat, melt butter
and add the flour. Cook, stirring constantly until thickened. Add
liquids. Whisk while simmering gently; until mixture is the desired
consistency. Reduce heat.

Microwave the stuffed crepes. Time will vary according to quantity.
For eight filled crepes allow approx. 6 minutes. Heat until very warm
throughout. Adjust time if necessary according to microwave
capability.

Allow one crepe per person for entree, two crepes per person if
serving with a garden salad, or three per person in serving alone
with sauce. Pour a generous amount of the hot sauce over the top just
before serving.

Foot-note: the quantity of leek, the balsamic vinegar and the lime
juice should not be eliminated from this recipe [at least not without
trial]. The combination of textures between the crepe, the seafood
and the barely cooked leek are a treat. The subtle flavour variations
created by the short marination of the filling ingredients in the
juice and the vinegar, are quite delightful and work well with this
sauce.

[-=PAM=-] [Crepe adapted from Lynn M Alford]

