Title: CRAB CASSEROLE IN A CLAY POT
Categories: Chinese, Seafood, Ceideburg 2
Yield: 4 Servings
1 1/2 lb Fresh whole crab,
-preferably live
2 tb Peanut oil
5    Unpeeled garlic cloves,
-crushed
2    Unpeeled fresh ginger
-slices, 1/4 inch thick
3    Whole scallions, cut into
-2-inch pieces
3 tb Fermented black beans
2    Fresh red chili peppers,
-seeded and shredded
3 tb Rice wine
2 tb Light soy sauce
1/2 c  Rich Chicken Stock
Well here it is, in all its glory.  I've included Hom's method for
making stock both because it's good and to give more of a feel for
the book. Honk Kong is an extremely, almost excessively dynamic city
and this is reflected in the food.  The book is interesting because
he has a finger on the development of the "new" Hong Kong cuisine and
notes traditional recipes from which the ones in the book spring.

BTW, Michael++my roommate++and I were talking about this dish last
night as we were munching up a plain old steamed Dungeness crab. He
said he *really* liked this recipe. I found it too heavy on the black
beans and spices. Here it is.  You be da judge...  ;-}

Here is an interesting, innovative technique employed by Hong Kong
chefs. The clay pot traditionally is used for the long simmering and
braising of foods; nowadays, however it is as often used to infused
intense flavors over high heat in a short length of time, as in this
recipe. the classic Cantonese dish is given a new twist; the fresh
crab is stir-fired with aromatic seasonings and then quickly finished
over high heat in the covered clay pot.  The pungent black beans
permeate the rich crab meat, enhancing it and adding to its subtle
flavors. This delicious casserole is quite easy to prepare and turns
an ordinary dinner into a special occasion.

If you are using a live crab, prepare it according to the technique
on page 77.  [Rinse, scrub and steam for ten minutes. S.C.] Cut the
body into quarters and lightly crack the claws and legs.

Heat a wok or large skillet until it is hot and add the oil. Add the
garlic, ginger, and scallions and stir-fry to flavor the oil. Then
add the black beans, chilies, and crab. Stir-fry for2 minutes and add
the chicken stock.  Turn the contents of the wok into a clay pot or
casserole, cover, and cook over high heat for 5 more minutes or until
the crab shell turns bright red.  Serve immediately.

Makes 4 servings.

From "Fragrant Harbor Taste", Ken Hom, 1989 Fireside (Simon and
Schuster), New York.  ISBN 0-671-75444-0.

Posted by Stephen Ceideberg; October 22 1992.

