Title: CRANBERRY-APPLE STRUDLE
Categories: Desserts, Fruit, Rcrockett
Yield: 10 Servings
6    Granny Smith apples
6 tb Unsalted butter
1/2 c  Plus 1 tablespoon sugar
1 ts Cinnamon
pn Allspice
pn Nutmeg
3/4 c  Sweetened dried cranberries
1 1/2 ts Cornstarch dissolved in 2
TB cold water
5    Sheets (14-by-18-inch)
Phyllo dough
Peel, core and quarter the apples. Cut each quarter in half and then
each wedge into three pieces (you will have apple chunks).

In a heavy-bottomed 12-inch frying pan, melt 3 tablespoons of the
butter over medium-high heat. Add the sugar and cook, stirring, until
the butter and sugar melt together, turn light brown and have the
consistency of peanut butter. Add the apples car efully (the sugar
mixture is very hot). With a wooden spoon, mix the apples carefully
with the caramel. The caramel will harden; don't worry, it will melt
again. Mix together the cinnamon, allspice and nutmeg and sprinkle
evenly over the apples. Cook the apple mixture, stirring often, until
the caramel melts and the apples soften and start to look cooked.

Stir in the cranberries and the cornstarch mixture. Cook for 2 to 3
minutes, until the juices in the pan thicken and take on a glossy
appearance. Transfer the apple-cranberry mixture to a shallow dish
and let cool.

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. Line a baking sheet that has a
raised rim all around with parchment paper.

Melt the remaining 3 tablespoons of butter. Lay a sheet of phyllo on
the prepared baking sheet. Brush the phyllo sheet lightly with the
melted butter. Place the next sheet of phyllo on top and brush it
with butter. Repeat with the remaining sheets, but do not butter the
top sheet. Reserve a bit of melted butter to brush on top of the
finished strudel. Place the apple-cranberry mixture in a strip along
the long side of the phyllo, about 1 inch in from the edge. Using the
parchment to help keep th ings together, roll up the phyllo to form a
long log. Adjust the roll's position on the baking sheet so it is not
touching the sides of the sheet. The roll will leak while it cooks,
so make sure it is on the parchment paper. Brush the top of the roll
with the reserved melted butter. Bake in the preheated oven for 25 to
30 minutes, until the roll is nicely browned. Let it sit at least 15
minutes before serving.

Per serving: 247 calories, 2 gm protein, 43 gm carbohydrates, 9 gm
fat, 19 mg cholesterol, 5 gm saturated fat, 96 mg sodium

The Washington Pos

