Title: GILROY GARLIC ROLLS
Categories: Breads
Yield: 24 Servings
----------------------------
-----------
Rm water
g  Tive dry yeast
Gar
Ive oil
Lt
1    G
Bleached flour
1 1/4 cup unbleached flour
Ftened butter
Rlic, put through a garlic p
-ress
Cotta filling
Cotta cheese
Ated parmesan cheese
2    Rlic cloves, put through a g
-arlic pres
Nely chopped fresh italian p
-arsley
Nely chopped fresh oregano
1    G yolk
Nch of freshly grated pepper
Nch of freshly grated nutmeg
1    G white
Ter
The Wooden Spoon Bread Book.  These rolls are delicately flavored with
garlic, both in the dough and in the filling. Mix all ricotta filling
ingredients together. To soften yeast, in a large mixing bowl combine
first 3 ingredients.  Let stand 5 minutes. Stir next 4 ingredients
into softened yeast mixture. Beat well. To make a soft dough,
gradually add 1 to 1 1/4 cups flour.  Turn out on  a floured surface
and knead until smooth. Place in a well-buttered bowl, turning dough
once to butter the top. Cover and let rise until doubled in bulk, 45
to 60 minutes. Meanwhile, mix together butter and garlic.  Punch down
dough. Toss on a lightly floured surface until no longer sticky. Roll
dough out to a 9 by 12 inch rectangle. With a short side facing you,
spread bottom 2/3 of rectangle with 1/2 of butter mixture.  Fold top
third of dough down over the center third. Fold bottom third of dough
up over this. Press edges to seal. Wrap dough in plastic and
refrigerate 15 minutes. Roll and fold again, using no butter. Wrap
and refrigerate 1 hour. Divide dough in half. Seal cut edges by
pinching together. Working with one-half of the dough at a time, roll
into a 12-inch circle. Using a sharp knife, cut circle into 12 equal
wedge-shaped pieces. Near the wide end of each piece place 1 tsp
Ricotta filling. Starting with the wide end, roll each wedge to the
point. Place, point side down, on lightly greased or nonstick baking
sheets. Cover and let rise until doubled, about 1 hour.  Before
baking, brush tops of rolls wiht a mixture of egg white and water.
Bake in preheated 375 degree oven for 20 to 25 minutes, or until
golden brown. Serve warm. Makes 24 rolls.

