Title: GIRL SCOUT COOKIE DO-SI-DO TEMPTATION
Categories: Pies
Yield: 1 Pie
1/2 c  Banana liqueur
1 ts Unflavored gelatin
2 3/4 c  Heavy cream
1/2    Vanilla bean
4 egg yolks
1 1/2 c  Sugar
3 tb Cornstarch
3 ripe bananas
Juice of 1 lemon
1/2 c  Peanut butter
1/2 c  Mini chocolate chips
Baked Pie Crust
1 1/2 c  Bourbon Chocolate Mousse
1 pk Do-Si-Dos cookies, crushed
Whipped cream for garnish
Place the banana liqueur in a small mixing bowl. Sprinkle the gelatin
on top and allow to soften for 5 minutes. Place the bowl over
simmering water until the gelatin is completely clear. Set aside.

In a saucepan, combine the heavy cream and vanilla bean. Bring to a
boil, remove from heat, cover and allow to steep while preparing the
yolk mixture.

In a mixing bowl, whisk the egg yolks while gradually adding sugar.
When the yolks have lightened, whisk in cornstarch. Strain the cream
and allow it  to cool slightly. Gradually pour it into the yolk
mixture while stirring.  Return to a clean saucepan over medium heat
and stir constantly until the  mixture begins to boil. Reduce the
heat and continue to stir for 2 to 3 minutes. Remove from heat, whisk
in the gelatin mixture and incorporate thoroughly. Allow the pastry
cream to cool completely.

Slice two of the bananas on the bias and brush with lemon juice.
Spread peanut butter on bottom of Baked Pie Crust, then spread
Chocolate Mousse on top of peanut butter, then top with a layer of
bananas and about 1/3 cup cookie crumbles. Top with banana custard.
Just before serving, top with 1/3 cup of cookie crumbles and
chocolate chips. With pastry bag, pipe whipped cream on pie. Slice
the third banana (you may not need all of it) and arrange slices on
top in a circle, then sprinkle with chocolate chips and additional
cookie crumbles.

This makes a very rich pie; thin slices are called for.

You will have leftover banana-flavored pastry cream, which you could
pour into tart shells or layer with the leftover crumbles in tall
parfait glasses,  topped with additional chocolate chips, cookie
crumbles and whipped cream.

St. Petersburg Times, March 7, 1996

