Title: GOBHI PARATHA
Categories: Indian, Breads, Ceideburg 2
Yield: 1 Servings
MMMMM---------------------------DOUGH--------------------------------
4 c  Whole-wheat flour
1    To 3 cups cold water
3/4 c  Ghee
MMMMM--------------------CAULIFLOWER FILLING-------------------------
2 tb Ghee
1 tb Finely chopped fresh ginger
-root
1 ts Finely chopped garlic
1/2 c  Finely chopped onions
1 ts Turmeric
1/8 ts Ground hot red pepper
1 md Cauliflower, trimmed, and
-coarsely chopped
1 tb Finely chopped fresh hot
-green chili (CAUTION)
1 ts Ground cumin
1 ts Salt
6    To 8 tablespoons ghee
Indian Flat bread with spiced cauliflower filling

DOUGH:

Prepare the whole-wheat dough in the following fashion: In a small
bowl, combine the whole-wheat flour and 1/4 cup of the ghee. With
your fingertips rub the flour and fat together until they look like
flakes of coarse meal. Pour 1 cup of water over the mixture all at
once, knead together vigorously, and gather the dough into a compact
ball. If the dough crumbles, add up to 2 cups more water, 1/4 cup at
a time, until the particles adhere.

On a lightly floured surface, knead the dough by folding it end to
end, then pressing it down and pushing it forward several times with
the heel of your hand. Repeat for 7 or 8 minutes, until the dough is
smooth and elastic.  Again gather it into a ball. Place the dough in
a bowl, drape a kitchen towel over the top, and let it rest at room
temperature for at least 30 minutes before rolling it.

CAULIFLOWER FILLING:

Meanwhile, in a heavy 10 to 12-inch skillet, heat 2 tablespoons of
ghee over high heat until a drop of water flicked into it splutters
instantly. Stir in the ginger and garlic, then the onions. Lower the
heat to moderate and, stirring constantly, fry the mixture for 7 or 8
minutes, until the onions are soft and golden brown. Watch carefully
for any sign of burning and regulate the heat accordingly.

Stir in the turmeric, red pepper, cauliflower, chili, cumin and salt.
Reduce the heat to low, cover tightly and cook for 10 minutes, or
until the cauliflower is tender but still slightly resistant to the
bite. To make the parathas, divide the cauliflower mixture into 9
equal portions. Divide the dough also into 9 portions and drape a
dampened kitchen towel over them to keep the dough moist.

One at a time, on a lightly floured surface, roll a ball of dough
into a round about 5 inches in diameter. Place a portion of the
filling mixture in the center of the round and fold the edges over
it, pressing them together to enclose the filling securely.  Pat the
filled paratha flat with your hands, then gently roll it again to
make a round about 5 inches in diameter. As you shape and fill the
parathas, set them aside, covered with a dampened kitchen towel to
keep them from drying out.

Heat an ungreased 10 to 12-inch skillet with a non stick finish or a
well-seasoned cast-iron skillet or griddle until it is hot enough for
a drop of water flicked into it to splutter instantly. Place one of
the parathas in the pan and, moving it about constantly with your
fingers or the edge of a metal spatula, cook for a minute or so. With
a wide spatula, turn the paratha over and brush about a teaspoon of
the ghee on the top. Cook for 2 minutes, then turn it over, spread
with another teaspoon of ghee and cook for I minute. Turning
frequently, continue to cook until the paratha is brown on both
sides.  (When you have mastered the technique, you will find you can
fry 2 or 3 parathas at a time, depending on the size of your skillet
or griddle.)

Serve the parathas warm, as a mealtime bread.  They are traditionally
accompanied by plain yoghurt or any rayta. Parathas may be cooked
ahead and reheated in a hot ungreased skillet for a minute or so on
each side.

Makes nine 5-inch breads.

From "The Cooking of India" by Santha Rama Rau, Time-Life Books,
Foods of the World series, 1969.  LOC number 79-98164.

Posted by Stephen Ceideberg; February 28 1993.

