Title: GRAHAM CRACKER CAKE
Categories: Cakes
Yield: 6 Servings
25    Double graham crackers,
-broken (3 1/3 cups)
1/2 c  Shredded desiccated coconut
-(unsweetened, if desired)
2 1/2 ts Baking powder
1/2 c  (1 stick) unsalted butter
1 c  Superfine or strained sugar
4 lg Egg yolks
1 ts Vanilla extract
1 c  Milk
4 lg Egg whites
1/8 ts Cream of tartar
Mocha Whipped Cream Filling (recipe next post)

Position a rack in the lower third of the oven and preheat to 350
degrees. Butter two 9-inch layer pans and line the bottoms with
parchment paper circles. Rebutter parchment paper.

Put broken graham crackers and coconut into the container of a food
processor fitted with steel blade. Process until the cracker crumbs
and coconut are ground very fine. Add the baking powder and pulse 6
to 8 times to blend.  Set aside.

Cut the butter into 1-inch pieces and put them in the large bowl of an
electric mixer fitted with beaters or paddle attachment. Soften on low
speed.  Increase speed to medium-high and cream the butter until
smooth and light in color, about 1 1/2 to 2 minutes.

Add the sugar, 1 Tbsp at a time, take 6 to 8 minutes to blend it in
well. Scrape the sides of the bowl occasionally.

Add the the yolks, 2 at a time at 1-minute intervals, scraping the
sides of the bowl as necessary.  Beat 1 minute longer. Blend in the
vanilla.

Reduce mixer Speed to low.  Add the crumb mixture alternately with the
milk, dividing the crumbs into three parts and the liquid into two
parts, starting and ending with the crumbs. Scrape the sides of the
bowl and mix for 10 seconds longer.  Transfer to a large bowl and set
aside.

Put the egg whites in a separate bowl and beat them on medium speed
with clean dry beaters or whip attachment until frothy. Add the cream
of tartar and increase the speed to medium high. Beat until the
whites form firm moist peaks.  With a 2 3/4 inch wide rubber spatula,
fold in one quarter of the whites to lighten the batter, taking about
20 turns. Fold in the remaining whites, taking about 20 additional
turns.

Spoon the batter into the prepared pans, smoothing the surface with
the back of a tablespoon.  Bake in the preheated oven 25 to 30
minutes, or until cake begins to come away from the sides of the pan
and is springy to the touch.

Remove cake from oven.  Set the pans onto cake racks for 10 minutes
to cool slightly, then invert onto racks sprayed with nonstick
coating. Lift off the pans and carefully peel off the parchment. When
the cake is completely cool, fill and frost.

