Title: * CHICKEN AND SAUSAGE GUMBO
Categories: Cajun/creol, Poultry, Breakfast, Sausage
Yield: 6 servings
1 c  Chopped onion (1 lg)
1 c  Chopped pepper (1 lg)
1 c  Chopped celery (2 ribs)
7 c  Water divided
1 ts Black pepper
1 ts Chopped garlic (1 clove)
1/2 ts Cayenne pepper
3 lb Chicken breasts, split in
- Half and boned
Salt to taste
Pepper to taste
Garlic powder to taste
1 lb Smoked sausage or kielbasa
1/2 c  Vegetable oil
1/2 c  All-purpose flour
Season chicken breasts lightly with salt, black pepper and garlic
powder. If possible, do this the day before you cook the gumbo.  Next
slice sausage into 1/4-to-1/2 inch pieces.

Make roux, using a cast iron or very heavy skillet that is very clean.
Place oil in skillet over high heat - oil should be at stage where it
just begins to smoke - and gradually stir in flour, using a
long-handled spoon.

Roux will take about 3 to 4 minutes to cook and must be stirred
constantly so that it does not burn.  If you see black specks in the
roux, it has burned and you must start over again.

As you make the roux, it will change in color from cream to tan to
brown and then to dark red-brown.  Remove from heat.  Stir in onions,
green peppers and celery, stirring constantly until roux stops
getting darker. Bring to stove once more, and cook over low heat
about five to seven minutes, stirring constantly.

In a large dutch oven, bring 6 c of water to a boil, and add the roux,
stirring to dissolve it thoroughly.  Carefully add chicken and cook
about 30 to 40 minutes or until chicken is cooked through.  Remove
chicken, and set aside to cool.  Debone chicken, and cut into
bite-size pieces.

Add sausage, 1 c water, 1 ts black pepper and chopped garlic and
cayenne to the pot, and simmer for 35 to 45 minutes, uncovered,
stirring frequently.  Taste, and add salt, if necessary.  Stir in the
chicken, and remove the gumbo from the heat.  skim surface to remove
fat that sausage gives off during cooking.

Serve over rice with a tossed salad and French bread.

Note: Excellent.

Posted in COOKING by: Joseph Vanicek 8/21/93

