Title: BAGELS 1
Categories: Breads
Yield: 12 servings
3 qt Water
1 tb Sugar
1    Cornmeal
1    Egg yolk
1 tb Water
2 c  Warm water
2 pk Active dry yeast
3 tb Sugar
3 ts Salt
5 3/4 c  Flour
Combine warm water, yeast and sugar.  Let stand 5 minutes, stir in
salt. Gradually mix in 4 cups of flour, beat at medium speed for 5
minutes. With spoon add 1 1/4 cups more flour to make a stiff dough.
Turn out on a floured board and knead until smooth, elastic, and no
longer sticky (about 15 minutes), adding more flour as needed.  Dough
should be firmer than for most yeast breads.  Place in a greased
bowl, cover, let rise until almost doubled (about 40 minutes).  Knead
dough lightly and divide into 12 equal pieces.
To shape, knead each piece, forming it into a smooth ball.  Holding
ball with both hands, poke your thumbs through the center.  With one
thumb in hole, work around perimeter, shaping bagel like a doughnut 3
to 3 1/2 inches across.  Place shaped bagels on lightly floured board,
cover lightly and let stand in a warm place for 20 minutes.
Bring the 3 quarts of water and 1 tbls sugar to boiling in large
kettle. Adjust heat to keep it boiling gently.  Lightly grease baking
sheet and sprinkle with cornmeal.  Heat oven to 400 degrees.
Gently lift one bagel at a time and drop into water, boil about 4 at a
time, turning often, for 5 minutes.  Lift out with slotted spatula,
drain briefly on a towel and place on baking sheet.  Brush with glaze
made with 1 egg yolk and 1 tbls water.
Bake 35 - 40 minutes, or until well browned and crusty.
Cool on rack.
WHOLE WHEAT BAGELS:  Follow basic recipe, omitting sugar.  Use 3 T
honey instead.  In place of flour, use 2 cups whole wheat flour, 1/2
cup wheat germ, and about 2 3/4 cup all purpose flour, blended
together.  Knead with white flour.
PUMPERNICKEL BAGELS:  Follow basic recipe, omitting sugar.  Use 3 T
dark molasses in place of sugar.  In place of flour use 2 cups rye, 2
cups whole wheat, 1 3/4 cups all purpose flour blended together.
Knead with white flour.
ONION BAGELS:  Add 1/2 cup instant toasted onion to basic dough with
the yeast , water and sugar in basic recipe.
SEEDED BAGELS:  Springle boiled bagels with sesame seed, poppy seed,
or caraway seed after using egg wash and before baking.

