Title: Chez Eddy Salmon Antonio
Categories: Fish/seafoo, Salsa/sauce
Yield: 4 servings
MMMMM-------------------------DEMIGLACE------------------------------
24    Parsley sprigs; stems only
2    Garlic cloves
2 ts Peppercorns, black
1 ts Thyme leaves
1/2 c  Wine, red
1/2 ts Tomato paste
10 lb Veal bones
2 lg Onions; quartered
2 md Carrots; peeled & quartered
2 sm Leeks; white part only
2    Celery stalks; with leaves
6 md Tomatoes
MMMMM---------------------------SALMON--------------------------------
Non-stick spray
16 oz Salmon fillets
2/3 c  Demiglace
1/3 c  Wine, red
2 tb Peppercorns, green
Demiglace: This is Chez Eddy's basic brown sauce, but unlike
traditional demiglace, it si not thickened with flour, starch, or
arrowroot.  It is thickened by long simmering and natural gelatins
contained in the bones. The best bones to use are veal knuckle with
some meat attached but all visible fat removed.  Have the butcher
split the bones into pieces.  The bones are roasted first to enhance
color and flavor.

Preheat oven to 450.  Roast bones in shallow roasting pan, turning
occasionally with slotted spoon until they begin to brown, about 1
hour.

Split leeks in half lengthwise and rinse carefully.  Cut celery stalks
into 2" pieces.  Add onions, carrots, leeks, and celery to roasting
pan; roast until browned, about 45 minutes.  The bones should be a
dark golden color.  (This stage is crucial for the full development
of flavor.  Do not rush it.  Take care the ingredients do not scorch.
Cooking times may need to be adjusted to allow bones to achieve the
necessary dark, caramelized color.)

Drain off fat.  With slotted spoon, transfer bones and vegetables to
large stock pot.  Deglaze pan by adding about 1 c hot water to pan
and stirring to dissolve coagulated cooking juices.  Pour this liquid
into stockpot and add tomatoes, parsley stems, garlic, peppercorns,
thyme, and enough cold water to cover.  Bring to boil over high heat.
Reduce heat so liquid simmers gently.  Skim off foam as it collects
on surface.  Cook uncovered, occasionally skimming off fat and foam,
until liquid is reduced to half its volume, 4-6 hours.

Strain stock through fine sieve or colander lined with several layers
of cheesecloth.  Discard solids, wipe out pot, and pour strained
liquid back in.  Add wine and tomato paste.  Return to boil, then
reduce heat and simmer 3-4 hours, until again reduced to half its
volume.  Occasionally remove any solids that collect on surface.

Cool to room temp.  Refrigerate until fat rises to the surface and
hardens.  Skim off solidified fat and discard.  Place completed
demiglce in serving-size containers and freeze for as long as 6
months.  Will keep in refrigerator about 5 days.

Salmon:  Preheat broiler.  In small, heavy-bottomed saucepan, warm
demiglace over medium heat and stir in red wine and peppercorns.
Simmer wine mixture over medium heat, stirring occasionally, until
liquid is reduced to 1/2 cup.  Keep warm until needed.

When broiler is preheated, spray rack with non-stick spray and broil
salmon 4" from heat 5-7 minutes, until opaque throughout, turning
once if necessary.  It should just spring back when touched.

Remove fish from heat and immediately place on warmed platter.
Drizzle 2 tb sauce per portion over fillets.

Nutritional information per serving: 161 calories, 7.2 gm fat, 40% of
calories from fat, 62 mg cholesterol, 1.11 gm saturated fat, 22.5 gm
protein, 0 carbohydrate, 50 mg sodium.

This spicy brown sauce provides a bold alternative to the many light
cream sauces that are more common with fish.  It is a favorite of
Antonio Gotto, chef of Chez Eddy.

Source: the _Chez Eddy Cookbook_, printed in the Houston _Chronicle_
MM by Sylvia Steiger, GEnie THE.STEIGERS, CI$ 71511,2253, GT Cookbook
echo moderator at net/node 004/005
Submitted By SYLVIA STEIGER   On   12-26-95

