Title: CHOCOLATE ORANGE BRIOCHES
Categories: Breads
Yield: 16 servings
3 c  All-purpose flour
2 ts Salt
1 c  Unsalted butter; (cold) plus
1 tb Unsalted butter; (cold)
6 oz Bittersweet chocolate
-- roughly chopped
1/2 c  Milk
1/2 c  Granulated sugar
2 pk Yeast
2    Oranges; zested
2    Eggs
4    Egg yolks
MMMMM------------------------ORANGE GLAZE-----------------------------
3 tb Orange juice
1 c  Confectioners' sugar
Scald the milk and let it cool to 110 degrees F.  Add 1/4 cup of the
sugar and the yeast and let stand until foamy, about 10 minutes.
Combine the orange zest with the remaining sugar in a food processor
and process until zest is finely ground.
In a heavy-duty electric mixer, combine the yeast mixture, zest and
sugar mixture, eggs and egg yolks.  Beat until combined, about 30
seconds. In a separate bowl, sift together the flour and salt.
Gradually add the dry ingredients to the liquid in the mixer bowl,
beating constantly until the dough is sticky and soft.
Add 2 sticks (1 cup) of butter, 1 tablespoon at a time, beating
constantly until combined.  Beat an additional 30 seconds.
Coat a large bowl with remaining tablespoon butter.  Turn the dough
out onto a lightly floured board; form a ball WITHOUT KNEADING and
place in the bowl, turning to coat the dough with butter.  Cover with
plastic wrap and a towel and set aside to rise in a warm place until
doubled in bulk, about 1 to 1-1/2 hours.
Turn the dough out onto a lightly floured board.  Punch down to
remove air bubbles and return to the bowl.  Cover with plastic wrap
and refrigerate a minimum of 6 hours, or overnight.
Turn the dough out onto a lightly floured board and gently knead in
the chocolate pieces.  Divide the dough into 16 equal parts.  Roll
each between your hands to form a 1-1/2" round cylinder.  To make the
traditional brioche topknot, lay the cylinders on a counter and roll
the side of your hand back and forth at a point about an inch from
the top, so you form a shape like a bowling pin.  Place the dough in
buttered brioche tins or muffin cups, pinched side up, and gently
press the tops down toward the bottom of the tim.
Place the tins on a baking sheet, cover with plastic wrap and a towel
and set aside in a warm place to rise until doubled, about 1-1/2
hours. Preheat oven to 375 degrees F.
Bake for 20 minutes.  While the brioches are baking, make the glaze.
ORANGE GLAZE: Whisk the ingredients together to form a paste and spoon
about 1 tablespoon over each warm brioche.

