Title: Egg Nog (Aged)
Categories: Holiday, Beverages
Yield: 1 servings
Fresh grated nutmeg
1 c  White sugar
1 qt "Sour Mash" bourbon ***
1 c  Dark rum ****
2    1-gallon GLASS
-containers *
12 lg Eggs -- separated
1 qt Half & half
1 qt Heavy Cream **
This recipe requires at least 8 to 10 weeks to age in the
refrigerator. For serving at Christmas time, best results have been
to make mixture the last week of October through the first week of
November. Each batch yields approximately 5 quarts. If preparing more
than one batch of mixture at a time, prepare each batch separately.

* i.e. juice, water, jugs etc.
Plastic containers will spoil the flavor and mixture. USE GLASS
CONTAINER'S ONLY!!

** I personally use a brand "Cook's Bavarian Style heavy whipping
cream."

*** Recommended brands of sour mash:  Yellowstone Sour Mash; Jim Bean;
Jack Daniels.

**** Recommended brands:  Myers and Bacardi.
(best results have been 3 cups of the bourbon and 1 cup rum;
however add liquor according to personal preference.)

Separate eggs.  Beat yolks with 1 cup sugar until mixture is sticky.
Color of yolk mixture should be very pale, almost white.  Beat whites
until very stiff and whites are almost dry. Combine yolk mixture and
whites.  Mix well.  Gradually add heavy cream and the half & half a
little at a time, mixing well after each addition.  With wooden spoon
add liquor VERY SLOWLY a little at a time, again, mixing well after
each addition.  IF LIQUOR IS ADDED TOO QUICKLY CURDLING MAY RESULT.
After all is mixed well, pour mixture into glass container(s) and
store in the refrigerator.

NOTE:  During the refrigerated aging process, mixture will appear
to be separating and contents will go down.  This is the normal
process.  When mixture has gone down enough, transfer all mixture
from the same batch into one large glass container, if possible.

THE FIRST 2 WEEKS OF AGING:   Each day, once a day, gently tip
containers up and down to mix the mixture.  DO NOT SHAKE!!

3RD WEEK AND THEREAFTER OF AGING:  Mix container's as instructed
above, only do this every other day.

After the 6th week, taste the mixture to determine if it is aging
properly.  Mixture should be very rich, thick, and smooth with the
very slightest taste and/or flavor of alcohol.  If mixture is not to
your liking, the following are some suggestions for "doctoring and/or
enhancements":
1)  Use 1-3 fresh vanilla beans.  Chop up very fine and add to
heavy whipping cream. (amount of heavy cream depends upon
how much doctoring needs to be done-again personal preference)
Cook over low heat til boiling.  Cool and mix with egg nog mixture.

2)  Add 1 pint (or more if needed) of Haagendaz (or other favorite)
vanilla ice cream.  Blend well.

Serve the "Aged/Fermented" egg nog with freshly grated nutmeg on top.

ERecipes    6/19/95
Robin Figone

:
Recipe By

Date: 12-06-95 (01:58)
From: Marjorie Scofield
(160) Fido: Recipes

