Title: EGGPLANT CUSTARD GRATIN (SAN JOSE MERCURY 3/94)
Categories: Vegetables, Side dish, French
Yield: 4 servings
- coarsely chopped
1/4 lb Cheese, Ricotta
2    Eggs
1/2 c  Cheese, Parmesan
- freshly grated
1/2 c  Cream, Heavy
Pepper
- freshly ground
Basil leaves, fresh
1 1/2 lb Eggplant; cut lengthwise
-into slices (1/2 " thick)
Salt
Oil, olive; as needed
1    Onion; finely chopped
2    Garlic cloves
- finely chopped
1 lb Tomatoes; peeled
- seeded and
Sprinkle the eggplant slices on both sides with salt, spread them out
on a tray and leave 30 minutes. Sponge dry with paper towels.
In a large frying pan, pour in olive oil to a depth of 1/4 inch and
place over medium heat.  Fry the eggplant slices, in batches, in the
hot oil until golden and tender at the stem ends, turning once. about
10 minutes. Add more oil to the pan as needed. Remove and drain on
paper towels Pour off any oil.
Preheat the oven to 450 degrees. In the same frying pan, warm 2
tablespoons of olive oil over low heat. Add onions and cook gently
until softened, about ten minutes. Add garlic, tomatoes and salt to
taste. Increase heat to high. Toss until moisture from tomatoes
evaporates, about 15 minutes. Set aside.
In a mixing bowl break up ricotta cheese and eggs with a whisk. Add
half of the Parmesan, the cream, salt and pepper to taste. Whisk to
consistency of a pourable cream.
Line a 6-cup gratin dish with half the eggplant slices in a single
layer, pressing them in place. Grind some pepper over them.  Tear
basil leaves into fragments and scatter over eggplant. Sprinkle
lightly with half the remaining Parmesan and the spread over the
tomato mixture. Arrange the remaining eggplant slices on top in a
single layer, pressing firmly in place. If there are a few extra
slices, press them on top. Pour over the cheese-egg mixture and smooth
the top. Sprinkle with the remaining Parmesan.
Put into the oven, reduce the heat to 350 degrees and bake until the
custard surface is swelled and golden with no depression in the
middle, about 30 minutes.  Serve hot.

