Title: EGGPLANT GRATIN
Categories: Vegetables, Main dish
Yield: 6 servings
Sugar, if needed
1/8 ts Saffron threads
2    Eggs
1 c  Ricotta cheese
1/3 c  Milk or whipping cream
1/2 c  Grated Parmesan cheese
10 lg Basil leaves; cut or torn
- into small pieces
3 oz Gruyere cheese
- shredded or thinly sliced
2 lb Japanese or round eggplants
Oil for frying
3 tb Virgin olive oil
1    Red onion; finely chopped
1    Garlic clove; finely chopped
1/2 ts Herbes de Provence
2 1/2 lb Ripe tomatoes
- peeled, seeded and chopped
Salt
Pepper, freshly milled
SLICE EGGPLANTS diagonally about 1/2-inch thick. Discard pieces that
are all skin on one side. If using round eggplants, halve them
lengthwise, then cut into 1/2 or 1/4 rounds, about 1/2-inch thick.
Generously cover bottom of wide skillet with oil. When hot, add
eggplant in single layer and fry until golden on both sides and flesh
is tender. Drain on paper towels. Add more oil, if needed, and fry
rest of eggplant. Make sure oil is hot each time you add a new batch.
FOR SAUCE: Warm olive oil in skillet and add onion, garlic and herbs.
Stir to coat onion with oil. Cook gently until onions soften, 12 to
15 minutes. Add chopped tomatoes, salt lightly and raise heat. Cook,
stirring occasionally, until juice has evaporated and sauce is thick,
about 15 minutes. Season to taste with salt and pepper. If tomatoes
are on the acid side, add sugar to taste to correct balance. FOR
CUSTARD: Cover saffron threads with a few tablespoons hot water and
let stand a few minutes. In bowl, beat eggs and stir in ricotta
cheese, milk and Parmesan cheese. Season with salt and pepper, then
stir in saffron with liquid. FOR GRATIN: Spread a little tomato sauce
over bottom of baking dish, then arrange a layer of eggplant slices,
slightly overlapping. Season with salt and pepper, scatter half the
basil, add Gruyere. Make another basil-eggplant layer. Cover with
rest of the tomato sauce. Pour custard over the top. Preheat oven to
350F and bake 40 minutes or until custard sets and is a delicate
golden brown. Remove from oven and allow to rest a few minutes before
serving.

