Title: Fred's Sausage and Chicken Jambalaya
Categories: Cajun/creol, Main dish
Yield: 12 servings
-Ben's works fine
5 c  Chicken stock
2 ts Salt - these should be
-heaping teaspoons
3 ts Cayenne pepper
2 ts Black pepper - freshly
-ground
2 ts White pepper
2 c  Green onions - chopped
1/4 c  Oil
1 ea Chicken - cut up or boned
1 1/2 lb Andouille sausage - or
-kielbasa
4 c  Onions - chopped
2 c  Celery - chopped
2 c  Green pepper
1 tb Garlic - chopped
4 c  Rice - long grained - Uncle
Season and brown chicken in oil (lard, bacon drippings are
traditional) over med-high heat.

Add sausage to pot (cut in 1/4" rounds) and saute with chicken. Remove
both from pot.

For brown jambalaya, either add heaping Tbsp brown sugar to hot oil
and caramelize, make roux, or use Kitchen Bouquet.  For red jambalaya,
delete this.  (I prefer to make a deep chestnut colored roux).

Saute onions, celery, green pepper and garlic to the tenderness that
you desire.

Return chicken and sausage to pot.

Add liquid and salt, pepper, and other desired seasonings and bring to
boil.  If using Kitchen Bouquet for brown jambalaya, add 1-2 Tbsp. For
red jambalaya, add approx 1/4 cup paprika, and you may want to use 1/2
stock and 1/2 tomato juice or V-8 for your liquid.

Add rice and return to boil. Cover and reduce heat to simmer.

Cook for total of 30 minutes. After 10 minutes of cooking, remove
cover and quickly turn rice from top to bottom completely.

Add green onions and chopped tomatoes if desired.  For seafood
jambalay, follow the first two steps, and then return seafood here.

NOTE: 1 cup raw long grain rice will feed 3 people.

4 keys: 1 cup rice to a total of 2 cups of trinity in any
combination (trinity = onions, celery and green pepper

1 cup raw rice to 1-1/4 cups liquid

overseason to compensate for the rice.

cook for a total of 30 minutes, turning completely after
10 minutes

NOTE:  For yankees and Canadians, the pepper mixture may prove to be a
little warm for ya'll.  Mix it in the proportions I've given in the
recipe, then add it a few teaspoonsful at a time until you get a
degree of warmth that is comforting.

For myself, I also like to add about 6 dashes of tabasco sauce.

Source: Fred Towner

per serving:
Approx. Cook Time:
Marks:
Calories
Fat grams    per serving:
Cholesterol  per serving:

Submitted By FRED TOWNER   On   12-26-95

