Title: FROZEN CRANBERRY SOUFFLE WITH SPUN SUGAR CRAN
Categories: Holiday, Desserts
Yield: 2 servings
4 lg Egg whites (I used extra
-large )
2 1/2 c  Well chilled heavy cream
--For the spun sugar
-wreath:
1/2 c  Light corn syrup
1/4 c  Sugar
1/2 c  Cranberries, picked over
Mint sprigs for garnish
-Gourmet Magazine 12/92
--For the cranberry
-mixture:
2 1/2 c  Cranberries, picked over
2/3 c  Sugar
2/3 c  Water
--For the Italian
-Meringue:
3/4 c  Sugar
1/3 c  Water
Make the cranberry mixture: In a heavy saucepan combine the
cranberries, the sugar and the water and bring the mixture to a boil,
stirring until the sugar is dissolved. Simmer the mixture, stirring
occasionally, for 5 minutes, or until it is thickened, and let cool
completely. (I cooked mine a bit longer).

Make the Italian Meringue:  In a small heavy saucepan, combine the
sugar and the water and bring the mixture to a boil, stirring until
the sugar is dissolved. Boil the syrup, washing down any sugar
crystals clinging to the side of the pan with a brush dipped in cold
water, until it registers 248 degrees F. on a candy thermometer and
remove the pan from the heat. While the syrup is boiling, in the
large bowl of an electric mixer, beat the egg whites with a pinch of
salt until they hold soft peaks, and with the motor running, add the
hot syrup in a stream, beating and beat the meringue at medium speed
for 8 minutes, or until it cools to room temperature.

Fold the cranberry mixture into the meringue gently but throughly. In
another bowl, with cleaned beaters, beat the cream until it just holds
stiff peaks and fold it into the cranberry mixture gently but
thoroughly. Spoon the souffle into a 2.5 qt. freezer proof glass
serving bowl (8 inch diameter), smoothing the top, and freeze the
souffle, its surface covered with plastic wrap, overnight. the
souffle may be made 3 days in advance and kept covered and frozen.

Make the spun sugar wreath: In a small heay saucepan combine the corn
syrup and the sugar , bring the mixture to a boil over moderate heat,
stirring until the sugar is dissolved, and boil the syrup until it is
golden caramel and registers 320 degrees F. on a candy thermometer.
While the syrup is boiling, oil lightly a 12 inch square sheet of
foul and on it arrange the cranberries in a 6 inch wide wreath shape.
Remove the pan from the heat and let the syrup cool for 30 seconds.
Dip a fork into the syrup and drizzle the syrup over the cranberries,
repeating this procedure until the cranberries are covered and wreath
is formed. (If the syrup becomes too thick to drizzle from a fork,
reheat over moderate heat until it is the right consistency.) Let the
wreath cool completely. The wreath may be made 2 hours in advance-
preferably not on a damp day - and kept in a cool, dry place.

Pry the wreath gently from the foil, arrange it on the souffle and
garnish it with the mint sprigs.

The following recipe is from the December issue of Gourmet Magazine.
I made this as a dessert for Christmas - but I omitted the spun sugar
wreath! I did not wish to wait until a couple of hours before dinner
on Christmas day to make a spun sugar wreath! Instead, I decorated
the souffle with candied violets.

Also, please note that the recipe gives no suggestion on how long
before serving from the freezer! If properly frozen, the souffle is
hard as a rock! I took mine out of the freezer about an hour and a
half before I planned to serve it - and in reality, it was more. I
did not leave the souffe in my hot kitchen, but rather in a not quite
as hot pantry and it was still well frozen, but I was able to cut
into it to serve! You will have to judge this for yourself as it will
depend on the the temperature of the room, etc. The souffle will not
break down, so you won't have to worry about that! By the way, if
there are any leftovers, the souffle is equally good the next day,
but of course it is no longer a frozen souffle!

Uploaded by Judy Gruhn, #76357,3134.

CRANBR.TXT/Asc  Bytes:   4008, Count:    6, 29-Dec-92

MM by Cathy Svitek

