Title: Georgia Boiled Peanuts
Categories: Nuts/grains, Snacks
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM----------------PEANUT COOKBOOK OF PLAINS GA---------------------
-water
1 pt Peanuts
1 tb Salt
Wash peanuts thoroughly in cool water; then soak in clean, cook water
for about 30 minutes before cooking.

Put peanuts in sauce pan and cover completely with water.  Add 1
tablespoon salt for each pint of peanuts.

The cooking period for boiled peanuts varies according to the maturity
of the peanuts used and the variety of peanut.  The cooking time for a
"freshly pulled" green peanut is shorter than for a peanut which has
been stored for a time.  The best way to prepare them is to cook them
as soon as they are picked.

There is no firm method for cooking boiled peanuts.  The shells of
some peanuts absorb more salt than others, so it is best to begin
with 1 tablespoon of salt per ping of peanuts.  Then add more salt to
taste late.  The texture of the peanut when full cooked should be
similar to that of a cooked dry pea or bean.  Boil the peanuts for
about 35 minutes, then taste.  If they are not salted enough, add
more salt. Taste again in ten minutes, both for slat content and to
see fi the peanuts are fully cooked.  If not ready, continue tasting
every five minutes until they have a satisfactory texture.

Drain peanuts after cooking, or they will continue to absorb salt and
become over salted.

Boiled peanuts are usually served as a snack.  They may be eaten hot,
at room temperature, or chilled in the refrigerator and eaten cold
(shelling as you eat them).  They will keep in the refrigerator for
several days or may be frozen.

Short Method -
Fill a pressure cooker 2/3 full with green peanuts and 3 tablespoons
of salt.  Fill with water to top of peanuts.  Cook for 30 minutes
under medium pressure.  Cool.  Remove lid and boil 30 minutes without
pressure.  Test for salt.

Posted 10-30-93 by MICHAEL WAGONER on F-Cooking

MM by MMCONV and Sylvia Steiger, GEnie THE.STEIGERS, CI$
71511,2253, Internet sylvia.steiger@lunatic.com, moderator of
GT Cookbook and PlanoNet Lowfat & Luscious echoes
Submitted By SYLVIA STEIGER   On   01-01-96

