Title: Grilled Salmon with Tarragon Aioli
Categories: Bbq/grill, Information, Fish/seafoo
Yield: 8 servings
2 tb Fresh lime juice
1/4 ts Freshly ground black pepper
Salt (omit if using prepared
-mayonnaise)
Vegetable oil
6    Salmon fillets or steaks
-(about 1/2 lb. each) cut
-1 inch thick
2 c  Homemade mayonnaise (or a
-good quality commercial
-brand)
1/2 c  Fresh Tarragon leaves,
-finely chopped or 1 tb.
-dried
2 tb Capers, chopped
3 tb Green onion tops, finely
-minced
MMMMM-----------------------TARRAGON AIOLI----------------------------
3 tb E.V. olive oil
1 1/2 tb Warm water
1 ts White wine vinegar
1/4 ts Salt
1/8 ts Freshly ground black pepper
4    Cloves garlic pureed to a
-paste in a mortar
2 lg Egg yolks
1 c  Neutral flavored oil (canola
-peanut or vegetable)
Method;

1. Tear the tarragon leaves by hand to help release the essential
oils. Next, finely mince the tarragon with a sharp knife or a
mini-chopper. If using a chopper, add the capers and chop with the
tarragon.

2. Chop the green onion tops by hand, and add to the tarragon-caper
mixture. chop into the mixture and set aside. Make the aioli (recipe
follows), if not using prepared mayonnaise.

3. In a medium to large bowl, combine the mayonnaise/aioli with the
tarragong/capers/onion tops. Add the lime juice, and blend well. If
using homemade mayonnaise, add salt to taste. Cover and chill 2 to 24
hours. (The further this is made ahead, the better the flavor will
be.)

4. Set grill up, using enough charcoal to make a bed 1 1/2 to 2"
thick when spread out. The fire should be fairly hot, yet on the
verge of beginning to slow down when the salmon steaks are cooked.
Adjust the cooking rack over the spread coals and lightly oil.

5. Brush the salmon steaks with a thin coating of the mayonnaise
mixture and place on the lightly oiled grill (skin side down for
fillets.) Coat the top with the aioli. Place the cover over the grill
and open the top and bottom vents. Cook for about 5 minutes. Turn the
salmon over (removing the skin and darker flesh if using fillets.)
Reapply mayonnaise. Continue cooking, uncovered for another 4 to 5
minutes. Salmon is done when the tip of a knife can be inserted in
the thickest part of the fish with little resistance. The fish should
be somewhat opaque with a bit of deeper pink remaining in the center.

6. Arrange on a serving platter, garnished with lime wedges and
tarragon stems. Pass the remaining aioli in a seperate bowl.

AIOLI:

1. Smash the garlic cloves with the flat side of a large knife,
removing any green germ that you may find in the center of the
cloves. Place the garlic in the bowl of a mortar (or a
mini-processor). Grind to a paste with the pestle (or blade), adding
some salt to aid in breaking down the garlic (if desired.)

2. Place the egg yolks in a quart-sized bowl. Wrap a damp towel
around the base of the bowl to steady it, or place a damp towel
beneath the bowl to act as an anchor. Whisk the egg yolks together
till well blended. Begin adding droplets of the neutral-flavored oil
very slowly, while continually whisking. When the mixture starts to
thicken, increase the oil flow to a thin, steady stream until all of
it (including the olive oil) has been incorporated. At this point,
the mixture should be farily stiff.

3. Whisk in the garlic puree. Add the water to the mortar (or
mini-processor) scraping any remaining bits of garlic from the sides.
Whisk the water into the aioli in a steady stream. Whisk in the
vinegar, salt* and pepper. Taste for seasonings and serve. Aioli
should be used within 24 hours of having been made, or the flavor of
the garlic will turn stale.

*If you have used salt in pureeing the garlic, you may not need any
more.

These recipes are from a BBQ/Grilling class offered at Cook's of
Crocus Hill in St. Paul, MN in June of 95.

MM format courtesy of Mary Riemerman
Submitted By RICH HARPER   On   12-25-95

