Title: Hearty Beef Stew
Categories: Meats, Soup/stew
Yield: 6 servings
2 c  Chicken stock
2    Bay leaves
1 ts Dried thyme
6 sm Boiling potatoes
Peeled and halved
4 lg Carrots, peeled
Sliced 1/4" thick
1 c  Frozen peas (6oz), thawed
1/4 c  Parsley leaves, minced
3 lb Beef chuck
Cut into 1 1/2" cubes
1 1/2 ts Salt
1 ts Black pepper
3 tb Vegetable oil
2 md (to large) onion(s)
Coarsely chopped (2 cups)
3    Garlic clove(s), minced
3 tb Flour
1 c  Full-bodied red wine
1. Heat oven to 200 F. Place beef cubes in large bowl. Sprinkle with
salt and pepper; toss to coat. Heat 2 tbs oil over medium-high heat
in large nonreactive soup kettle; add beef to kettle in two separate
batches. Brown meat on all sides, about 5 min per batch, adding
remaining tbs oil if needed. Remove meat and set aside. Add onions to
now empty kettle; saute until almost softened, 4-5 min. Reduce heat
to medium and add garlic; continue to saute about 30 seconds longer.
Stir in flour; cook until lightly colored, 1-2 min. Add wine,
scraping up any browned bits that may have stuck to the kettle. add
stock, bay leaves, and thyme; bring to simmer. Add meat; return to
simmer. cover and place in oven; simmer about 1 hour.

2. Remove kettle from oven, add potatoes and carrots, cover, and
return to oven. Simmer until meat is just tender, 1 1/2-2 hours.
Remove stew from oven.

Can be cooled, covered, and refrigerated up to 3 days.

3. Add peas and let stand 5 min. Stir in parsley, adjust seasonings
and serve.

Variations:
Beef Stew with Bacon, Mushrooms and Pearl Onions:
:

1. Make the following changes to Hearty Beef Stew: Use equal portions
of red wine and stock, 1 1/2 cups of each. Before preparing beef, fry
4oz sliced bacon, cut into small dice in bottom of kettle until brown
and crisp. Drain bacon, reserving bits and drippings. Substitute
drippings for oil when browning meat. Return bacon to kettle with
stock, bay leaves, and thyme.

2. Omit potatoes, carrots, and peas. Heat 2 tbs reserved drippings in
large skillet until hot and add 1 pound white mushrooms, quartered;
saute over high heat until browned, 5-7 min. Remove from skillet,
then add 1 cup (8oz) frozen pearl onions, cooked according to package
directions (or an equal amount of fresh pearl onions that have been
blanched, peeled, and steamed). Saute until lightly browned, 2-3 min.
When meat is almost tender, 2-2 1/2 hours, add mushrooms and pearl
onions to stew. Cover and return to oven. Cook until meat and pearl
onions are tender, 20-30 min longer. Stir in parsley, adjust
seasonings, and serve.

Beef stew with Tomatoes, Orange Zest, and Olives
:

1. Make the following changes to Hearty Beef Stew: Substitute 1 cup
chopped tomatoes with their juice for 1 cup of the stock. Add two
strips orange zest when adding stock. Substitute equal portions
herbes de Provence for the thyme.

2. Omit potatoes, carrots, and peas. Stir in 1 cup black olives such
as Kalamata to fully cooked stew. Cover and let stand 5 min. Stir in
parsley, adjust seasonings, and serve.

Beef Stew with Tomatoes, cinnamon, and Cloves
:

1. Make the following changes to Hearty Beef Stew: Stir in 1 tbs
tomato paste after flour has colored. Substitute 1 cup tomatoes for 1
cup of the stock and add 1 tsp ground cinnamon and 1/8 tsp ground
cloves along with stock, bay leaves, and thyme.

2. Omit potatoes, carrots, and peas. Heat 1 tbs oil in medium
skillet; add 1 cup frozen pearl onions, cooked according to package
directions, and saute until lightly browned, 2-3 min. When meat is
almost tender, 2-2 1/2 hours, add pearl onions and 1/3 cup currants
to stew. Cover and return to oven. Cook until meat and pearl onions
are tender, 20-30 min longer. Stir in parsley, adjust seasonings, and
serve.

Note: For the best-tasting beef stew, do not add the carrots and peas
to the stew pot raw. Instead, just before serving bring 1 inch of
water to a boil in a steamer pot. Place the carrots in a steamer
basket, lower them into the pot, and steam them until just tender,
about 6 min. Then add the peas and steamed carrots, cover the kettle,
and let the stew stand for about 5 min in order to blend all the
flavors.

Cook's Illustrated
February 1996
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   12-27-95

