Title: HERBED ROASTED SALMON AND VEGETABLES W/LEMON
Categories: Fish/seafoo, Main dish, Salsa/sauce
Yield: 6 servings
MMMMM---------------------LEMON CHIVE SAUCE--------------------------
1/3 c  Cream, heavy
1/3 c  Butter; in small pieces
1 tb Chives, chopped
1/2 ts Peel, lemon, grated
1/2 c  Wine, white
1/4 c  Stock, fish
1 tb Shallots, chopped
1 tb Juice, lemon
MMMMM---------------------------SALMON--------------------------------
2 ts Thyme leaves; crumbled
1 tb Parsley
3 lb Salmon fillets
6    Garlic cloves, crushed
1/2 c  Oil, olive
2 ts Rosemary leaves; crumbled
MMMMM---------------------ROASTED VEGETABLES--------------------------
1 lg Bell peppers, red
1 lg Bell peppers, yellow
-Herb Marinade (reserved
-from Herb Roasted Salmon)
6 sm Carrots
6 md Potatoes, red
2    Ears of corn
2 md Zucchini
Seafood alternatives: snapper, halibut, rockfish, striped bass LEMON
CHIVE SAUCE: Yes, this is a rich sauce - but worth every calorie!
Combine wine, fish stock, shallots and lemon juice in a medium sized
saucepan; boil over high heat until reduced by half (to just under
1/2 cup). Add cream and boil until sauce reduces to just under 2/3
cup. Take off heat and slowly whisk in butter then stir in chives and
lemon peel. (if making sauce ahead, leave out the chives and lemon
peel. Stir sauce over low heat to rewarm - do not completely melt -
then add chives and lemon peel) Makes about 1 cup In a small bowl,
combine the garlic, oil, rosemary and thyme and parsley. Pour about
2/3 of it into another bowl and reserve for the vegetables. Rinse
salmon and pat dry. Rub the remaining herb marinade over the fillet
then season lightly with salt and pepper if desired. Lay fish on a
lightly oiled rimmed baking sheet or in a shallow roasting pan (you
can prepare the fish up to this point earlier in the day then
refrigerate until ready to cook) Bake in a 400 degree oven until
flesh in center of thickest area is no longer translucent but is
still very moist, 20 to 25 minutes for a fillet 1.1/4 to 1.1/2 inches
thick in center. Serve with Roasted Vegetables and Lemon Chive Sauce.
(Note: Put vegetables in oven to bake 20 to 25 minutes BEFORE putting
salmon in to bake) Peel carrots and trim stem ends. Cut potatoes into
eighths. Husk fresh or frozen corn and cut into 1" rounds. Halve
zucchini lengthwise, then cut diagonally into 2" pieces Quarter and
seed bell peppers, then cut crosswise into narrow triangles. Place
vegetables in a roasting pan or in an 11-by 17-inch baking dish and
toss with reserved herb marinade. Bake, uncovered, in a 400 degree
oven, until vegetables brown on bottom, about 15 minutes. Stir; cover
pan and continue baking, stirring once or twice, until potatoes are
very tender, 20 to 30 minutes more. If cooked bits on pan bottom get
very dark and you're concerned about burning, add a few Tablespoons
water or white wine. (If preparing vegetables early in the day, cover
cut potatoes with water to prevent them from turning dark in the
refrigerator. Cut and marinating vegetables can also stand, covered,
at room temperature several hours before cooking) A whole fillet of
salmon surrounded by brightly colored vegetables is a spectacular
sight. It is also easy on the cook. You can season the salmon and the
vegetables early so they'll be ready to go when it's time for baking.
Big pieces of brightly colored vegetables look quite festive
alongside salmon. A convenient way to cook the vegetables is in a
roasting pan (a disposable pan makes clean up really easy) The sides
are high enough to allow you to place the baking sheets with salmon
or Herb Toast right on top to bake.

