Title: Ken's Sweet & Sour Chicken
Categories: Chinese, Poultry, Guestchefs
Yield: 4 servings
3 oz Canned lychees, drained or 1
-fresh orange in segments
SAUCE:
2/3 c  Chicken stock
1 tb Light soy sauce
1/2 ts Salt
1 1/2 tb Chinese white rice vinegar
-or cider vinegar
1 tb Sugar
1 tb Tomato paste
1 ts Cornstarch
1 ts Water
- Ken Hom, Guest Chef
3/4 lb Skinless, bnls chicken brst
1 tb Rice wine or dry sherry
1 tb Light soy sauce
1/2 ts Salt
1    Small green bell pepper
1    Small red bell pepper
1    Carrot
2    Scallions
1    Egg, beaten
2 tb Cornstarch
2 c  Oil, preferably peanut
Properly made sweet and sour is a delicate balance of flavors, not the
heavy, overly sweet combination you tend to find in this country. CUT
THE CHICKEN INTO 1-INCH cubes. Put the cubes into a bowl together
with the rice wine or sherry, 1 tablespoon of light soy sauce and 1/2
teaspoon salt, and marinate for 20 minutes. Meanwhile, cut the green
and red peppers into 1-inch squares. Peel and cut the carrots and
scallions into 1-inch chunks. (The uniform size of meat and
vegetables adds to the visual appeal of the dish.) Bring a pot of
water to a boil and blanch the carrots in it for 4 minutes, then
drain and set aside. Mix the egg and cornstarch in a bowl until they
are well blended into a batter. Lift the chicken cubes out of the
marinade, put them into a batter and coat each piece well. Heat the
oil in a deep-fat fryer or large wok until it is almost smoking.
Remove the chicken pieces from the batter with a slotted spoon and
deep-fry them. Drain the deep-fried chicken cubes on paper towels. TO
MAKE THE SAUCE: Combine the chicken stock, soy sauce, salt, vinegar,
sugar and tomato paste in a large saucepan. Bring it to a boil. Add
all the vegetables, but not the lychees or oranges, and stir well. In
a small bowl, blend together the cornstarch and water. Stir this
mixture into the sauce, and bring it back to a boil. Turn the heat
down to a simmer. Add the lychees or oranges and chicken cubes. Mix
well, then turn the mixture onto a deep platter. Serve at once.

