Title: Lemon-Herb Roast Chicken
Categories: Poultry, Tasteofhome
Yield: 4 servings
1 1/2 ts Grated lemon peel
1    Roasting chicken
(6 1/2 to 7 lb)
1/4 c  Dry white wine
1 c  Chicken broth (approx)
2 tb All-purpose flour
1/2 c  Butter at room temp
2 tb Rosemary, chopped or
2 ts Dried rosemary
2 tb Thyme, chopped or
2 ts Dried thyme
3 lg Garlic clove(s), minced
MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
Rosemary sprigs
Lemon wedges
Combine butter, rosemary, thyme, garlic and lemon peel in small bowl
and stir to blend. Season to taste with salt and pepper.

Herb butter can be prepared 3 days ahead. Cover and refrigerate.
Bring to room temperature before using.

Preheat oven to 450 F. Rinse chicken; pat dry. Slide hand under skin
of chicken breast to loosen skin from meat. Reserve 2 tbs herb butter
for gravy. Rub half of remaining herb butter over chicken breast
under skin. Spread remaining herb butter over outside of chicken.
Season chicken with salt and pepper. Truss chicken to help hold shape.

Place chicken in heavy large roasting pan. Roast 20 min. Reduce oven
temperature to 375 F. Roast chicken until meat thermometer inserted
into thickest part of inner thigh registers 175 F and juices from
thigh run clear when thigh is pierced with skewer, about 1 hour 15
min. Lift chicken and tilt slightly, emptying any juices from cavity
into roasting pan. Transfer chicken to platter. Tent with aluminum
foil to keep warm.

Pour pan juices into large glass measuring cup. Spoon fat off top.
Add wine to pan. Place pan over high heat; bring wine to boil,
scraping up any browned bits. Pour wine mixture into cup with pan
juices. Add enough broth to same cup to measure 2 1/4 cups liquid.

Melt reserved 2 tbs herb butter in heavy medium saucepan over
medium-high heat. Add flour; whisk until smooth and beginning to
color, about 3 min. Gradually whisk in pan juices. Boil until
thickened to sauce consistency, whisking occasionally, about 7 min.
Season gravy with salt and pepper.

Arrange lemon and rosemary around chicken on platter. Serve with gravy
passed separately.

Bon Appetit
Best of the Year
January 1996
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   12-27-95

