Title: MEATLESS SUNDAY ROAST
Categories: Vegetarian
Yield: 1 roast
MMMMM---------------------------ROAST--------------------------------
-5 vegetable burgers
4 1/2 oz TVP mince, unflavored
4 tb Soy sauce; or veg extract
3 tb Vegetable oil
2 cl Garlic; minced
12 oz Vegetable sausage mix
1 ea Egg
4 ea Vegetable schnitzles; OR
MMMMM----------------------SAVOURY STUFFING---------------------------
1 ea Onion; chopped
4 ea Fresh sage leaves; chop fine
1 tb Dried mixed herbs
1 ea Loaf brown bread; cubed
6 tb Margerine
5 ea Stalks celery; chopped
Roast Start preparing the roast the day before it's needed. Preheat
oven 350.  Grease and flour a large casserole dish or mold. Sprinkle
one half the garlic over the inside of the dish.

Measure the sausage mix, egg, and 1 pint water in large mixing bowl.
Stir well and leave 5 mins for the liquid to absorb.

Measure 1/4 pint water into food blender. Add veggie burgers and
blend to even consistency.

Mix tvp mince and 1 pint water in bowl. Stir well and let stand 5
mins.

Combine sausage mix, pureed burgers, and the soaked tvp mince
together in a large bowl.  Add remaining garlic and soy sauce.  Mix
well. Coat the casserole dish with the vegetable oil, and pour the
mixture into the dish, pressing it firmly on to the sides and bottom.
Leave large cavity in the middle of the stuffing.  Firm mixture with
the back of a spoon or your knuckles.

Bake 1 1/2 hours in the oven.  Allow to cool, then cover and place
overnight in the frig.

Make stuffing Preheat oven to 350. Place cubes of bread in large
mixing bowl.  Melt margerine in a large frying pan. Add celery and
onion and saute 5 mins, until lightly brown. Pour the saute into
mixing bowl with the bread cubes.  Add 1/4c water, the sage and mixed
herbs. Mix very well. Fill roast cavity with this stuffing.  Any
remainder may be placed in baking dish and baked separately later.

Turn casserole dish upside down on a baking tray, or roasting pan,
without removing the dish.  Place in oven and bake 45 mins. Remove
casserole dish and continue baking one more hour. After half an hour,
place extra stuffing in oven and bake the extra 30 mins.

Serve the stuffed roast with hot gravy, extra stuffing, baked sweet
potatoes, cranberry sauce, mashed and roast potatoes, etc.

Good source of protein, calcium, potassium, iron, zinc.
From Linda McCartney's Home Cooking Typed by Lisa Greenwood

