Title: PEAR & ANISE SKILLET TART
Categories: Desserts, Fruit, Low cal/fat, Pie/tart
Yield: 10 servings
2 tb Plus 1 t ice water
6    Med. size ripe pears (appr.
2 3/4 lbs)
2 tb Cornstarch
1 ts Anise seeds, crushed
1 ts Margarine
1 c  All purpose flour
1/4 c  Plus 3 T sugar, divided
2 ts Grated lemon rind, divided
1/2 ts Anise seeds, crushed
1/2 ts Baking powder
1/4 c  Margarine, cut int 4 pcs &
Chilled
Combine flour, 1 Tb sugar, 1 ts lemon rind, 1/2 ts anise seeds, and
baking powder in a large bowl; cut in 1/4 c chilled margarine with a
pastry blender until mixture resembles course meal and is pale
yellow. Sprinkle ice water, 1 ts at a time, over surface; toss with a
fork until dry ingredients are moistened and mixture is crumbly. (Do
not form into a ball) Gently press mixture into a 4" circle on heavy
duty plastic wrap; cover with additional plastic wrap. Roll dough,
still covered, into a 10 1/2" circle. Place dough in freezer 30
minutes or until plastic wrap can be removed easily. Peel, core amd
cut each pear into 8 wedges. Combine pears, remaining ts lemon rind,
cornstarch, and 1 ts anise seeds in a large bowl; toss gently to
coat. Set aside. Wrap handle of 10" nonstick skillet with aluminum
foil. Combine 1/4 c sugar and 1 Tb margerine in skillet, and place
over medium heat. Carmelize by stirring often until sugar melts and
is lightly golden. Remove from heat. Arrange pear wedges
spoke-fashion on top of the carmelized sugar, working from the center
of the skillet to the edge. Place each pear wedge with the rounded
side down and the pointed end toward the center of the skillet.
Sprinkle remaining 2 Tb sugar over pears, set aside. Remove bottom
sheet of plastic wrap from pastry dough. Place dough on top of pears
in skillet,gently tucking dough between pears around the edge of
skillet. Remove top sheet of plastic wrap. Cut slits in dough for
steam to escape. Bake at 375D for 40 minutes or until pastry is
lightly browned. When tart can be shaken loose from pan, invert onto
a serving platter. Serve warm.

(About 191 calories per serving) Protein 1.7/Fat 6.3/Carbo
34/Cholesterol 0/Iron 0.9/Sodium 82/Calcium 27

Cooking Light Magazine

