Title: Ravioli
Categories: Pasta/rice
Yield: 1 servings
6 oz Grated Provolone
1/2 c  Heavy cream
3    Eggs -- lightly beaten
Several grindings black
Pepper
1 pn Nutmeg
1 ts Dry basil or
2 tb Finely chopped fresh basil
2 c  All-purpose flour
Plus additonal flour for
- shaping ravioli
1/2    Stick butter
1 ts Salt
1 c  Boiling water
Two Cheeses Filling:
4 oz Freshly grated Parmesan
Put the flour into a bowl.  Add the butter in thin slices, then the
salt.  Stir in the cup of boiling water, and mix together with a large
fork or chopsticks (pastry blender works well also).  When the
mixture has formed a mass, take it out of the bowl and place on a
well-floured board and knead it until it becomes a soft, sticky dough
that is rather easy to work and roll out.  Form the kneadded dough
into a ball and place it back in the bowl.  Cover with plastic wrap
so that it does not dry out while it rests.  Prepare filling.

Two Cheeses Filling:
In a medium bowl, mix together all the ingredients.  Taste and
correct for seasoning.  Refigerate until ready to use.

Making The Ravioli
Clear a large work area and flour the surface well.  Keep the flour
nearby to dust the work surface and hands as you work.  Prepare a
lightly floured tray or cookie sheet to put the formed ravioli on.
Cut the dough in half.  Leave half in the bowl and cover.  Cut the
other half in half again.  Roll each piece into a large rectangle
about as thin as a penny.  Cut the 2 rectangles into strips about 3
inches wide. Place teaspoonfuls of filling in mounds along one strip,
spacing them at least 2 inches apart.  Cover with another 3-inch wide
strip.  Press down on the dough around each mound of filling.  Repeat
with remaining dough. Using a 2 1/2-inch round cookie cutter, a
pastry wheel, or even a knife, cut out each round or square of
ravioli.  Make sure the edges are well sealed and that the filling is
not leaking out  Place the sealed ravioli on the prepared tray and
cover with a kitchen towel that has been well dredged with flour.
The ravioli can wait for several hours before they are cooked. Turn
them over every once in a while so that they dry evenly.  (The
ravioli can be frozen at this point for future use.) Bring 6 to 8
quarts of salted water to a boil and drop in 6 to 10 ravioli at a
time.  Cook 1 minute more after they rise to the surfface. Remove
with a slotted spoon and place them in a warm bowl that has been
filmed with melted butter..  Pour a little melted butter over the
ravioli and keep them warm while you cook the rest.  Pour melted
butter over each batch of new arrivals.  Serve with grated Parmesan
cheese or a tomato sauce.

Hope you enjoy...  I have also used cream of mushroom soup only have
the milk added and it was tasty!  ;>

10/27/94
Linda Short

:
Recipe By

Date: 12-06-95 (02:35)
From: Marjorie Scofield
(160) Fido: Recipes

