Title: Red Peppers Stuffed w/Rice, Spinach, & Sausage
Categories: Vegetables, Nuts/grains
Yield: 1 servings
-trimmed, shredded
2 c  Rice, logn-grain white
-or imported basmati
-or Am. Basmati-type white*
2 tb Pignoli (pine nuts); toasted
2 tb Parsley; finely chopped
;salt
;pepper, fresh ground
1/2 c  Parmigiano-Reggiano
-or shredded Mozzarella,
-Monterey Jack, or other
-flavorable cheese
2 lg Pepper, red bell; or 4 med.
1 x  Garlic clove; bruised w/side
-of knife
4 tb Oil, olive
Thyme, sprig of fresh
1 lb Sausage, Italian-style; or
-well-seasoned breakfast
1/2 c  Onion; chopped
1 c  Pepper, red/yellow; chopped
1 tb Thyme leaves, fresh
-strippe from stems
1 x  Garlic clove; crushed
3 c  Spinach leaves, fresh
*  Or use half brown and half white rice, if preferred

"Roasting the peppers before stuffing them adds a lot of flavor to the
pepper.  What is lost in height (the peppers won't stand as rigidly)
will be gained in flavor.  These are great on a buffet or for a
picnic supper."

Heat oven to 400 degrees.  Cut the peppers in half lengthwise, cutting
through the stem end.  Leaving the stems intact, if possible, cut out
the seeds and ribs with a small sharp knife.  Rub the baking dish
with the garlic.  Add the peppers, cut side up.  Drizzle with 2
tablespoons of the oil and turn the peppers to coat evenly.  Add the
sprig of thyme to the baking dish.  Bake for 25 to 30 minutes,
turning once, or until the peppers begin to char.  Remove from the
oven and let cool while preparing the stuffing.  Lower the oven to
350 degrees.

Saute the sausage in a large skillet over medium heat until well
browned, stirring to break it into small pieces.  Drain the sausage
in a sieve, discard the fat, and set the sausage aside.  Wipe out the
skillet with a damp paper towel.

Heat the remaining 2 tablespoons of oil in the cleaned skillet.  Add
the onion and saute, stirring until tender, about 5 minutes.  Add the
chopped bell pepper and saute stirring, until the pepper and onion
begin to brown. Add the thyme and garlic and stir for 1 minute.  Stir
in the spinach until well blended.  Cover and cook over low heat for
5 minutes, or until the spinach is wilted.

Stir in the reserved sausage, rice, parsley, and pignoli.  Taste and
add salt (remember that the sausage may be salty) and pepper.  Stir
until blended.  Carefully spoon into the roasted red pepper halves,
packing the rice mixture and lifting the sides of the peppers as they
are stuffed. Sprinkle the tops with the grated or shredded cheese.

Bake in the oven until browned, about 25 minutes.  Serve warm or at
room temperature.

<"Rice, The Amazing Grain", by Marie Simmons>
Submitted By MARGARET YOUNG   On   12-23-95

