Title: Roasted Vegetable Napoleons
Categories: Vegetables, Foodmagazin
Yield: 6 servings
2 md Red onion(s)
Cut into 1/3" thick slices
1 lb Medium red potatoes
Cut into 1/3" thick slices
3/4 c  Ricotta cheese
1 1/2 ts Thyme leaves, chopped
1/2 lb Mozzarella
Cut into 6 slices
Each 1/4-inch thick
6    Rosemary sprigs
1/2 c  Olive oil
1 lb Eggplant
Cut crosswise
Into 1/3" thick slices
1 1/4 lb Zucchini
Cut crosswise
4 lg Plum tomatoes
(abt 1 1/4 lb)
Cut lengthwise
Into 1/3" thick slices
Preheat oven to 450 F.and brush 2 baking sheets with some of the
olive oil.

Arrange as many vegetables as possible in one layer on sheets. Brush
vegetables with some remaining oil and season with salt and pepper.
Roast in middle and lower thirds of oven, switching positions of
sheets in oven halfway through roasting, until just tender and
lightly browned, 10-15 min. Transfer vegetables as roasted to a tray,
arranging them in one layer. Repeat with remaining vegetables.

Vegetables may be roasted 1 day ahead, cooled completely, and chilled,
layered between sheets of plastic wrap on trays and covered. Bring to
rooms temperature before proceeding.

In a small bowl stir together ricotta, thyme, and salt and pepper to
taste.

Put 1 eggplant slice on a lightly oiled baking sheet. Spread 1 tbs
ricotta mixture over eggplant. Cover ricotta mixture with 2 potato
slices and layer with 2 zucchini slices, 1 onion slice, 1 mozzarella
slice, 2-3 tomato slices, 2 zucchini slices, and 1 onion slice.
Spread 1 tbs ricotta mixture over onion and top with 1 eggplant
slice. Make 5 more napoleons using remaining vegetables, ricotta
mixture, and mozzarella.

Insert a metal or wooden skewer through center of each napoleon to
make a hole from top to bottom. Trim rosemary sprigs to 1-inch taller
than napoleons and remove bottom leaves from each sprig, leaving
about 1-inch of leaves around top. Insert 1 sprig into each napoleon
and bake in middle of oven for 5 min, or until mozzarella is melted
and vegetables are heated through. Serve with orzo.

Gourmet Magazine
January 1996
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   12-27-95

