Title: SOTO AYAM (CHICKEN SOUP)
Categories: Indonesian, Poultry, Soup/stew
Yield: 6 servings
1 ts Turmeric
1 ts Salt
2 ts Coriander, ground
2 ts Sugar
1/4 ts Pepper
28 oz Chicken broth
4 c  ;Water
1 1/2 tb Lemon juice
Condiments (noted in directi
1    Chicken, 3-3 1/2 lbs.
1 tb Salad oil
4    Garlic clove; smashed and pe
1    Onion; coarsley chopped
2 tb Ginger, fresh; chopped
1    Lemon grass stalk
1/4 c  Lemon grass; sliced
Lemon zest
1    Galangal slice; dry
Remove chicken giblets, set aside.  Pull off and discard lumps of fat
from chicken.  Cut off wings and leg-and-thigh pieces. Separate back
from breast.

Pour oil into 6 quart kettle and place over medium heat.  Add garlic,
onion, and ginger and cook, stirring until onion is soft.  Add lemon
grass, galangal, tumeric, salt, coriander, sugar, pepper, broth, and
water. Stir then add chicken and giblets (except liver).  Bring to a
boil over high heat.  Cover, reduce heat, and simmer until breast is
no longer pink when slashed (15-20 minutes).

Remove breast and let cool. Simmer remaining chicken until meat near
thighbone is no longer pink when slashed (15 minutes more).  Lift out
legs and thighs, let cool.  Continue to simmer broth.  Discard skin
from breast, legs and thighs. Cut meat into bite-sized pieces.  Cover
and set aside.

Return bones to broth, continue simmering until broth is richly
flavored (about 1 more hour). Strain, discard wings, back, bones,
giblets, and seasonings. (At this point you may cover and refrigerate
chicken and broth until next day.  Bring chicken to room temperature
before serving.)

Prepare condiments and crisp-fried onions.  Place condiments, onions
and chicken in seperate bowls.  Skim and discard fat from broth. Heat
broth until steaming and stir in lemon juice.  Ladle broth into
serving bowls. Let diners add chicken, condiments and crisp-fried
onions.

CONDIMENTS:  Offer at least two of the following: 2 ounces bean
threads, cut into 6-inch lengths (soak in warm water to cover for 30
minutes before cutting), or 1 1/2 cups cooked rice; 1 1/2 cups bean
sprouts mixed with 1/4 cup chopped celery leaves; Spiced Coconut; and
Chili Paste.

Crisp-fried onions: Cut 2 medium onions in half lengthwise.  Cut each
half crosswise into even slices about 1/8 inch thick; then cut slices
into halves or thirds to make smaller arcs.  Into a deep heavy pan
pour salad oil to a depth of 1 inch and heat to 300 F.  Add about a
third of the onions and cook, stirring often, until lightly browned
(4-5 minutes).  Oil temperature will drop at first, but rise again as
the onions brown; regulate heat to maintain 300 F.  Remove onions
with a slotted spoon; drain on paper towels.  Repeat with remaining
onions. Serve warm or at room temperature.  Makes about 1 1/2 cups.

--- per Larry Haftl

