Title: SPICED RED WINE FRUIT SOUP WITH CANDIED ORANGE
Categories: Desserts, Fruit, Soup/stew
Yield: 6 servings
MMMMM---------------------------FRUITS--------------------------------
1    Star anise pod
2 tb Orange liqueur
3 md Pears, such as Bartlett
4 c  Dry red wine
1 sm Pineapple
8 sm Thin-skinned seedless
Oranges or tangerines
1 1/4 c  Sugar, approximately
Half a vanilla bean, split
MMMMM-----------------------BOUQUET GARNI----------------------------
1    Cinnamon stick
1 ts Whole black peppercorns
1/2 ts Cardamon seeds
12    Fresh mint leaves OR
2 ts High-quality peppermint
-tea leaves
MMMMM-------------------------TO FINISH------------------------------
1/4 c  Heavy cream (approximately)
Fresh mint leaves, garnish
1 tb Plus 1 teaspoon cornstarch
1/2 c  Creme fraiche
1.  Using a large sharp knife, trim off the top and bottom of the
pineapple and slice off the skin.  Using the tip of a vegetable
peeler, remove the eyes.  Quarter the pineapple lengthwise and core
it.  Slice each quarter crosswise 1/2" thick, then cut enough slices
into bite-sized pieces to make 1 cup.  Reserve balance of the
pineapple for another use. 2. In a large saucepan of simmering water,
scald the oranges for 5 seconds. Refresh under cold running water;
pat dry.  Pick out the orange with the nicest skin. Using a sharp
knife, cut it crosswise into very thin slices; save any juices.
Using a vegetable peeler, strip the zest from 3 of the remaining
oranges; cut it into very thin strips; set aside. 3. Juice the 3
zested oranges.  Add enough water to make 1 1/4 cups and pour into a
medium nonreactive saucepan.  Stir in the 1 1/4 cups suage and the
orange slices and their juices.  Scrape the seeds out of the vanilla
bean with the tip of a knife and set aside.  Add the bean and star
anise pod to the saucepan and bring to a simmer over high heat,
stirring to dissolve the sugar. Cover, reduce the heat to low and
simmer very gently until the white of the orange slices begins to
turn translucent and the syrup takes on a rich amber color, about 1
hour.  Add a few tablespoons of water if the syrup thickens too much
before the slices are translucent. Strain the syrup and add enough
water to make 3/4 cup.  Reserve the orange slices; discard the star
anise and the vanilla bean. 4. While the orange slices are cooking,
using a small sharp knife, peel the remaining 4 oranges, removing all
the bitter white pith.  Working over a nonreactive bowl, cut in
between the membranes to release the orange sections. Squeeze the
membranes to extract all the juice.  Add the cut pineapple and orange
liqueur. Set aside to macerate until ready to assemble the soup. 5.
Peel, halve and core the pears. Slice them crosswise 1/3-inch thick.
6. In another medium nonreactive saucepan, boil the red wine over
high heat until reduced to 2 1/2 cups, about 12 minutes.  Stir in the
reserved orange syrup and orange zest and the bouquet garni (tie all
ingredients in the listing for the bouquet garnet in cheesecloth
before using).  Bring to a simmer over moderately low heat. Add the
pears and poach until wine-colored and tender when pierced with a
knife, about 5 minutes.  Using a slotted spoon, transfers the pears
to a plate to cool. 7. If desired, add another teaspoon or so of
sugar to the wine mixture. Dissolve the cornstarch in 2 tablespoons
of water and whisk into wine. Return to a boil over high heat; boil
for 1 minute to thicken. Pour the soup into another nonreactive
container; let cool slightly; then cool completely in refrigerator.
Squeeze the bouquet garni gently; discard. 8.  In a food processor,
puree the reserved candied orange slices and vanilla bean seeds.  Add
the creme fraiche and blend.  Thin with the heavy cream to a
semi-liquid consistency. 9. To assemble the soup: Place the poached
pear slices in chilled shallow bowls or rimmed soup plates. Scatter
the orange sections and pineapple pieces evenly on top. Ladle 1/4-cup
of the soup over each serving. Place a dollop of the creme fraiche
mixture in the center of each bowl and garnish with a mint leaf.
Makes 6-8 servings. NOTE:  If you buy organic oranges or tangerines,
you don't need to follow the scalding procedure in Step 2.

