Title: SUMMER PANDOWDY
Categories: Pie/tart, Fruit
Yield: 6 servings
Grated rind (colored part
-only) from  1/2 lemon
1 1/2 ts Fresh lemon juice
1 tb Cold unsalted butter, cut
-into slivers
1 1/2 lb Nectarines, pitted, cut
-into eighths
1 pt Fresh blueberries
1/2 c  Packed light brown sugar
1/2 ts Ground cinnamon
MMMMM---------------------------CRUST--------------------------------
-into bits
3/4 c  Plus 1 tb whipping cream
1 ts Sugar
2 c  All-purpose flour
3 tb Granulated sugar
1 tb Baking powder
5 tb Cold unsalted butter, cut
Usually made with a rolled sweet crust baked on top of fruit, the
crust is "dowdied" by pushing the crust into the fruit to soften
before serving or by inverting the crust during serving to the bottom
of the serving bowl. Serve this warm from the oven or at room
temperature, with or without ice cream.
1. Position a rack in the center of the oven and heat the oven to 425
degrees. Butter a deep-dish pie pan or an 8-inch-square baking dish;
set aside.
2. Gently stir together the fruit, brown sugar, cinnamon, lemon rind
and juice in a large bowl. Pour the fruit into the prepared pan.
Scatter the 1 tablespoon butter slivers over the fruit.
3. For the crust, put flour, 3 tablespoons sugar and the baking
powder in a large mixing bowl. Whisk to combine. Work the bits of
butter into the flour mixture with a pastry blender until the mixture
resembles coarse meal. Add 3/4 cup of the cream and stir with a fork.
The mixture will be stringy. Knead with your hand about 45 seconds
and it will become smooth.
4. Roll the dough to  1/4-inch thickness. Trim it to about  1/2 inch
larger than the baking dish. Cut a small circle out of the center of
the crust to serve as a steam vent, and carefully place the crust
over the fruit. Do not press the crust against the sides of the pan.
Reroll the scraps and cut as decorations if you desire. Brush the
crust with the remaining 1 tablespoon of cream and sprinkle with the
teaspoon of sugar.
5. Place the pandowdy on a baking sheet with raised sides and bake 10
minutes. Reduce the oven temperature to 350 degrees and loosely cover
the crust with a foil tent, shiny side out. Continue baking until the
crust is golden and the fruit bubbly, 35 to 45 minutes. Either
"dowdy" the crust now by pushing it under the surface of the fruit or
serve crust side down in bowls.

