Title: Sweet Potato and Mushroom Hash
Categories: Potatoes, Side dish, Vegetables
Yield: 12 servings
Fresh ground pepper
2 lb Yukon Gold potatoes
Peeled, cut in 1/2" cubes
2 lb Sweet potatoes
Peeled, cut in 1/2" cubes
1/4 c  Peanut oil
1 lg Red onion(s)
Finely chopped
1/2 ts Grated orange zest
1 pn Ground nutmeg
1/2 c  Walnuts
3 tb Butter
3 tb Olive oil
2 lb Assorted mushrooms
Sliced 1/2" thick
3 md Shallots, finely chopped
2    Garlic clove(s)
Finely chopped
1 ts Thyme, finely chopped
Kosher salt
1. Preheat the oven to 375 F. Spread the walnuts on a baking sheet and
toast for about 7 min, or until fragrant. Let cool slightly, then
coarsely chop the nuts.

2. Melt 1 tbs butter in 1 tbs olive oil in a large skillet. Add 1/3
of the mushrooms and saute over high heat until golden and all the
exuded liquid has evaporated, about 8 min. Transfer to a large plate
and repeat the process with the remaining butter, olive oil, and
mushrooms.

3. Add the shallots and garlic to the skillet and cook over
moderately high heat, stirring occasionally, until the shallots are
translucent, 2-3 min. Stir in the mushrooms and thyme and season with
kosher salt and pepper.

The mushrooms can be refrigerated for up to 1 day; the toasted
walnuts can stand at room temperature.

4. Bring 2 medium saucepans of salted water to a boil. Cook the
potatoes and sweet potatoes separately until just tender, about 3
min. DRain and transfer all the potatoes to a large bowl.

5. Heat half of the peanut oil in a large non-stick skillet. Add the
red onion and cook over moderately high heat, stirring often, until
softened, about 5 min. Add half of the potatoes and cook over high
heat, stirring occasionally, until tender and browned, about 10 min.
Transfer to a very large bowl. Repeat with the remaining peanut oil
and potatoes; add them to the bowl. Stir in the orange zest and
season with kosher salt and pepper and nutmeg. Add the mushrooms and
walnuts and mix gently. Transfer the hash to a large serving bowl or
platter.

The hash can stand at room temperature for up to 3 hours. Rewarm in
the oven before serving.

Food and Wine
December 1995
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   12-22-95

