Title: The Hind Quarter Cuts
Categories: Meats, Information
Yield: 6 servings
1 bn Of beef cutting information
UNDERCUT OR FILLET:  is the most suitable meat for frying.  Having a
very delicate flavour it is unsuitable for any other treatment.  There
are however, only 5-7 pounds of fillet in a carcase of 600-700 pounds.
Certainly not enough to satisfy the potential demand.

SIRLOIN: may be considered to be the next most suitable frying cut,
and on the grounds of its superior flavour, is preferred to fillet by
many people.  It is not often cut in England, where the most usual
practice is to roast the sirloin.

RUMP STEAK: is the most common frying cut, and the prime end of the
rump is to be found in the small slices which are removed from the
hip bone.

TOPSIDE AND TOP RUMP: Topside being the muscle of the inside leg, and
Top rump being the muscle of the front of the thigh, are both suitable
for slow frying from the highest quality of fat animal.  In nearly all
cases, however, they are, together with the rump, better cooked in the
oven with a small quantity of water.

SILVERSIDE: is the muscle of the outside of the thigh and also the
buttock.  It is today common for this joint to be roasted, but it is
best suitable only for casseroling if tenderness is desired, and is
eminently suitable for salting and boiling.

HINDQUARTER FLANK: Yields a cheap and delicious joint for boiling or
casseroles for those who have acquired the taste for beef fat.

LEG OF BEEF:  is only suitable for boiling. It may be cut in two ways.
IN strips it shows clearly the structure of working muscle being
sheathed with white or trasparent connective tissue which is gathered
together at the ends into thick pieces of white gristle.  I cut in
slices it exhibits "lines" where the various sheaths of connective
tissue have been cut across.  There is little to choose between the
leg and the foreleg or shin except that the leg is larger and
willyield bigger pieces of meat for stewing where this is required.

Origin: Mrs Beeton's Cookery and Household Management Book
Shared by: Sharon Stevens

