Title: THE DREADED RED MENACE
Categories: Salsa/sauce, Herbs/spice
Yield: 6 servings
1 1/2 c  Unsweetened Raspberries
-Fresh Or Frozen
1/3 c  Fresh Orange Juice
3    Dried Habanero Chilies
1 tb Grated Orange Zest
1 c  Raspberry Vinegar
First let me say that this is not my recipe. It was created by Jim
Tarantino as a method of adding some red color to another of his
unusual and exciting sauces, Yellow Hell Marinade, which is used in a
dish he created called "Mango Shrimp from Hell." I made the Dreaded
Red Menace some evenings ago and absolutely fell in love with it. I
think it's a masterpiece of creativity and simplicity. My dinner
companion, a young lady relatively inexperienced in the ways of
cooking and spicy foods, felt that the Dreaded Red Menace was a
little much. You be the judge, but definitely try it!  There's a
variation on this sauce called the "Smoky Red Menace" and it uses 3 -
4  dried chipotles instead of the habaneros. Here's what Jim
Tarantino says about this sauce:

"For Philadelphia's Book and the Cook event, I wanted to streak some
red sauce paint through pools of Yellow Hell marinade for a dish
called Mango Shrimp from Hell. Well, the red sauce never made it to
the shrimp - it tasted so good that we marinated chicken breasts with
it instead. People are initially fooled by the sweet raspberry
flavor, but this marinade packs a fair amount of heat. We started
referring to the marinade in the restaurant as the "Dreaded Red
Menace." It's wonderful as a dipping sauce too."

One of the reasons I made this sauce when I did was because, in the
directions for the recipe, Tarantino mentions that one should use the
plastic, or dough, blade in the Cuisinart when pureeing the
raspberries. I wanted to see just how true his comment was, since
there was some discussion of the issue on CIS. I pureed the berries
in two batches, one with the steel blade and the other with the
plastic blade. Jim Tarantino clearly speaks from experience. Use the
plastic blade for raspberries and other similar berries.

Combine the chiles, orange zest, and vinegar in a heavy nonreactive
pot and bring to a boil. Reduce the vinegar to 1/3 cup, strain, and
discard the solids. Return the vinegar to the saucepan. Puree the
raspberries in a food processor fitted with a plastic dough blade. (A
steel blade will crush the seeds, which will lend a bitter taste to
the food.) Then strain. Add the raspberry puree to the vinegar and
simmer over low heat for 20 minutes. Cool to room temperature and add
the orange juice. The marinade will keep in the refrigerator in an
airtight jar for 1 to 2 weeks.

Yield: 1 1/2 cups

Marinate shrimp for 2 to 3 hours; chicken breasts 4 to 6 hours.

From the book "Marinades" by Jim Tarantino

