Title: TIRAMISU 5
Categories: Desserts
Yield: 1 servings
-coarsely grated
3 tb Cocoa powder
-Extra whipping
-cream for garnish
-MASCARPONE CHEESE
-SUBSTITUTE
16 oz Cream cheese (2 8 oz.
-packages)
1/3 c  Sour cream
2    Ounces (1/4 cup) whipping
-cream
6    Eggs, separated
1 1/4 c  Granulated sugar
1 1/2 c  Mascarpone cheese
-substitute
24    Lady fingers,
-split lengthwise
3/4 c  Hot water
2 ts Instant coffee granules
1/4 c  Brandy
2 tb Brandy
1 2/3 c  Whipping cream, whipped
4 oz Bittersweet chocolate,
Arrange half the lady fingers in the bottom of a 9 x 13  pan.  Mix hot
water with coffee granules and 2 T. brandy. Pour 1/2 this mixture
gently over lady fingers. Set aside.

Make a zablione by beating the egg yolks and sugar in  the top of a
double boiler until ivory colored.  Add 1/4 C. brandy and whisk over
simmering water until the mixture starts to thicken - 8-10 minutes.
Let cool a little. Stir constantly while cooking.

Carefully mix zabliogne with mascarpone cheese.  It  will appear to be
quite liquid. Whip the egg whites until very stiff and fold into
zabliogne/mascarpone mixture.

Pour 1/2 zabliogne mixture over the lady fingers, which have been
soaking up the coffee/brandy mixture. Top with 1/2 whipped cream.
Sprinkle with 1/2 of cocoa powder and 1/2 of grated chocolate.

Place balance of lady fingers on top of this to create a second
layer. Pour remaining coffee mixture  carefully over these lady
fingers. Then repeat layers; zabliogne, whipped cream, cocoa powder
and grated chocolate. Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate  till
set. It is best if left over-night. When ready to serve, decorate
with piped-on whipped cream around the edges and more chocolate
and/or cocoa powder if desired. Yield 10-12 servings, depending on
the size you cut them. It is quite rich so you might consider smaller
sized pieces.

NOTE:  You can substitute Marsala wine for the brandy if you prefer
and like the taste of Marsala.

MASCARPONE CHEESE SUBSTITUTE Mascarpone cheese is sold in Italian
delis, cheese  shops and speciality food markets.  It is somewhat
difficult to find and very expensive (i.e. from $9.95 per pound).
From January 1991 Southern Living Magazine comes this substitute for
mascarpone.

Blend three ingredients well, until it becomes somewhat light and
fluffy. This will make the equivalent of about 2 1/2 cups of cheese.
Substitute in equal amounts - 1 cup substitute for 1 cup mascarpone.
From: Fred Towner Date: 08-03-93

