Title: VANILLA INFORMATION
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 servings
1    Information
VANILLA (Vanilla planifolia); is native to Central America and Mexica.
Mexica
monopolized the profitable Vanilla trade for three centuries. It is
now produced mainly in the Malagasy Republic (Madagascar) and
neighboring islands
of Reunion and Comores. Lesser amounts come from Java, Tahiti, and
Mexico. Long before Columbus discovered America, the Aztecs enjoyed a
drink call "Xoco-Latl" made from cocoa and vanilla beans. This was
discovered by Cortez,
and Vanilla was taken back to Spain from where its use soon spread to
other parts of Europe. Vanilla is the fruit of an orchid plant; each
hand-pollinated flower becomes a long slender pod or bean which is
picked while still green. It undergoes a curing and drying process
during which aroma and flavor are developed. Pure Vanilla Extract, a
delicate, subtle flavoring, is a complex mixture of natural
ingredients, many of which are unknown. Imitation vanilla extract is
a mixture of color and synthetic flavors, mainly vanillin.  Pure
vanilla has a pleasant "bouquet" and a full,
well-rounded flavor that is not present in an imitation vanilla
extract. For
the protection of consumers, Federal standards have now been issued to
define
the name Vanilla Extract and provide that no imitation flavors may be
used in
making pure Vanilla Extract.
USES...Use Vanilla to flavor most sweet foods such as eggnog, milk
shakes, hot chocolate and other milk beverages; ice cream; rice,
bread and other puddings; cakes; cookies; dessert or fruit sauces;
custards; stewed fruits, fruit compotes; candies; glazes; frostings;
whipped cream; pies; coffee; tortes; meringue shells; cheesecake;
dessert souffles; sundae toppings; cream
puff and pastry fillings; muffins; coffee cakes and cream cheese
filling for
fruit bread.
SUGGESTED AMOUNTS TO USE IN VARIOUS DISHES
1 - 2 tsp in 2 layer cake recipe or mix 1/4 - 1/2 tsp in 1 cup heavy
cream, whipped 1 - 1-1/2 tsp in 2 cups custard sauce 1 - 1-1/2 tsp in
frostings for
2 cake layers 2 - 3 tsp in cookie recipe making about 5 dozen 1/ - 1
tsp in candy recipe using 2 cups sugar 2 tsp in about 4 cups custard
for making ice
cream From: Earl Shelsby Date: 08-18-93

