Title: WONDERFUL MILLET VEGETABLE BALLS
Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
Yield: 1 servings
-ground nuts
2 tb Arrowroot powder;-OR-
2 tb -unbleached flour;or kamut
-flour
2 c  Millet;cooked, cold*
-about 3/4 cup uncooked
1/2 c  Hazelnut (filbert)flour; OR-
1/2 c  Almonds; ground or other
MMMMM-------------------REMAINING INGREDIENTS------------------------
2    Garlic cloves; minced
2    Vegetable bouillon cubes
2 ts Tamari soy sauce; up to 3 ts
-or miso
2 tb Parsley, fresh; chopped
-up to 3 Tbsp
1 ts Dill weed
1 ts Paprika
1/2 ts Majoram
1/2 ts Thyme
2 tb Oil, natural; up to 3 tbsp
1 c  Onions; chopped
1 c  Brocolli; chopped small -OR-
1 c  -asparagus; chopped small
1 c  Carrots; chopped small
1 c  Mushrooms; up to 1 1/2 cups
-chopped
1 c  Celery; chopped small -OR-
1 c  -Bell pepper; chopped small
1/2 c  Olives, black; chopped
-or green olives; chopped
MMMMM--------------------------OPTIONAL-------------------------------
1/2 c  Almonds; roasted at home
-chopped
1/4 ts Sea salt; especially if
-unsalted vegetable bouillon
-is used
* to cook millet, use 2 1/2 cups water per 1 cup dry millet. It does
not usually need prewashing. Cook 40-55 minutes and use as a
substitute for rice  in rice dishes. This is one of the best grains,
high in vitamins and very alkaline.

Mix cooked millet, hazelnut flour (or ground nuts) and arrowroot
powder (or substitute flours) together. Heat the oil and saute the
onions, brocolli and carrots until semi-tender. Add the other
vegetables and saute another 1-2 minutes more. Break up the bouillon
cubes in the stir fry and mix them well with everything else. Remove
the saute from heat and mix it well with the millet-flour mixture.
Roll it into balls, using 1/8 - 1/4 cup for each ball. Bake the balls
at 400F for 18-22 minutes until hot and toasted for a wonderful
flavour.

Serve with Arrowroot sauce, Mushroom Gravy, Vegetarian Gravy or
Toasted Cashew or Sesame Sauce. Incredibly delicious!

The 1/8 cup balls may be stir fried in a lightly oiled frying pan and
served as "meat balls" with spaghetti and tomato sauce or they may be
eaten plain or serve as suggested above. Cold leftover balls keep 4-6
days refrigerated. They are terrific for lunches and snacks - a
wonderful protein  and vitamin lift. MAKES: 2-4 dozen

VARIATIONS: Rice or Quinoa Vegetable Balls: Instead of millet, brown
rice may be used. Cook 7/8 cup rice in 2 1/4 cups water so that the
rice is very tender. For Quinoa Vegetable Balls, cook 1 1/8 cups
quinoa in only 2 cups water so that the grain will be less tender
than usual. Measure 2 cups of the cold cooked grain before using in
the recipe. Other grains may also be used. Experiment with kasha,
buckwheat, pot barley, bulgur or other whole grains.

Millet, Rice or Quinoa Vegetable Burgers Prepare the Wonderful Millet
Vegetable Balls (or the grain you are using as above) and use 1/2 to
3/4 cup of mixture for each burger. Lightly coat the burger with
whole wheat, kamut or spelt flour. Grill them for 4-5 minutes on each
side on medium-high heat in a skillet or on a griddle. serve with
natural ketchup, mustard, pickle and a bun if desired.

Tofu Vegetable balls or Burgers Prepare the Wonderful Millet
Vegetables (above) except use 1 lb of regular tofu, crumbled instead
of the millet.

T.V.P. Vegetable Balls or Burgers Prepare the Wonderful Millet
Vegetable Balls (above) but in place of the millet use 1 cup
texturized vegetable protein (T.V.P.) or texturized soy protein
soaked in 7/8 cup boiling water for 10 minutes or until the T.V.P.
expands and softens.

SOURCE: _Vegan Delights_ by Jeanne Marie Martin posted by Anne
MacLellan

