Title: ZUCCHINI DATE CAKE
Categories: Cake/cookie
Yield: 10 servings
1/4 c  Almonds (opt.)
1/2 ts Salt
Cinnamon Orange Icing
1 c  Powdered sugar
1 ts Ground cinnamon
2 tb Orange juice
1 tb Orange curacao
Orange Glaze (opt.)
3 tb Orange juice
2 tb Sugar
1/2 lb Zucchini
1 c  Chopped dried dates
2 ts Grated orange zest
2 c  Flour
2 ts Baking powder
1 1/2 ts Soda
2    Egg whites
2    Eggs
1 tb Vanilla
1 1/4 c  Sugar
1 c  Plain, non-fat yogurt
If dates are dry, soak to make them moist.  Chop squash in processor.
Add dates and orange zest. Blend well. Sift flour with baking powder,
soda and salt. Blend dry ingredients. Beat egg. Add yogurt, sugar and
vanilla. Add alternately dry mix and egg mix alternately to zucchini.
Pour batter into lightly greased and floured bundt pan. Bake at 350
about 45 minutes, or til tests done.  Cool on wire rack 10 minutes.
Unmold onto serving platter. If using glaze, peirce top and sides
with with toothpicks. Spoon glaze over cake, allowing to soak in
until cake is moist but not wet. Cool completely. Drizzle icing over
cake and sprinkle with almonds

Icing:  combine powdered sugar, cinnamon, orange juice and liqueur in
bowl. Mix til smooth.  Use immediately.

Orange Glaze: Stir together til smooth.

Note: Avoid using dry old dates. For slightly softer cake texture,
add 2 Tbsp melted butter to batter before folding into squash. This
will add 2 grams fat per serving. From: The Spectator....Aug 12/92
There is yellow squash hidden in this cake, but you'd never guess it.
It's delicate, faintly sweet flavor blends right in. You can use
crook neck, straight neck or even yellow zucchini, but be sure to
select young squach with soft, thin skins. (why not green zucchini?)
This cake, with its accent of chopped dates, needs only a simple
icing to dress it up To add extra moistness and a sweet citrus
flavour, poke all over the warm cake and pour optional glaze over the
cake til it soaks in.

Adapted from a rich recipe with sour cream and pecans created by the
late Bert Greene.

