Title: Brownie Cookies
Categories: Cookies
Yield: 48 servings
1 oz Unsweetened chocolate
1 1/2 ts Baking soda
1/4 lb Unsalted butter
1 tb Vanilla extract
1 tb Milk
4 oz Semisweet chocolate
2 1/3 c  Sifted all-purpose flour
1/2 ts Baking powder
1 c  Granulated sugar
2 ea Egg
3/4 c  Finely chopped walnuts
1.  Melt the chocolate over hot water. 2.  Sift the flour, baking soda, and
baking powder together. Set aside. 3.  In the bowl of a mixer, cream the
butter. Add the sugar slowly and continue to beat. Add the vanilla, then
the eggs 1 at a time. Add the chocolate and stir to blend. 4. Stir in the
dry ingredients and the milk by hand. When just blended, mix in the
walnuts. Cover and refrigerate dough for 30 minutes before rolling. 5.
Preheat oven to 375 degres. Lightly grease a cookie sheet. 6. To form the
cookies, scoop out a portion of dough and roll out on a well-floured
surface. When dough is 1/4 inch thick, cut it into rounds or other desired
shapes. Re-roll scraps and cut again. 7. Place on cookie sheet (leave room
for expansion) and bake for 6 to 8 minutes. Watch for any hot spots in the
oven and don't let these cookies overbrown. VARIATION: For the Brownie
Cookie Crust, make 1 recipe of Brownie Cookies and chill the dough briefly.
Lightly grease the back side of a large baking sheet. Roll the dough out
onto the baking sheet as thinly as possible so that the baked product will
crumble easily. Bake crust at 375 degrees for 5 to 7 minutes. Let crust
harden, then slide the cookie from the sheet and cool completely. Roll over
the cookie with a rolling pin until it is crushed to a fine crumb. (There
should be about 2 1/4 cups of crumbs.) Melt 1 stick plus 1 tablespoon of
unsalted butter. Mix it into the crumbs and pack the mixture over the
bottom and up the sides of a 10-inch springform pan. Freeze for 30 minutes
before filling in order to set the crust. Note: When I made this, I made
individual cookie crumb crusts for the "Kit's Chocolate Mousse" recipe by
using a large muffin pan. Line each cup with waxed paper for easy removal.

