Title: Chili with Lamb and Black Beans
Categories: Lamb, Mexican, Beans, Chili
Yield: 8 servings
2 tb Ginger, fresh minced
2 tb Thyme, fresh minced  or
2 ts Thyme, dried crumbled
1 tb Jalapeno, seeded, deveined
1 1/4 ts Marjoram, dried, crumbled
3/4 ts White pepper, fresh ground
3/4 ts Black pepper, fresh ground
3/4 ts Pepper, cayenne
3/4 ts Allspice
2 lb Italian tomatoes, chopped
1 1/4 c  Wine, light zinfandel
1 3/4 c  Black beans, sorted rinsed
2 qt Water, or more as needed
2 lb Lamb bones
4 ea Thyme sprigs
4 ea Parsley sprigs
1 ea Bay leaf
3 ea Garlic clove, crushed
6 tb Olive oil
2 ea Onions, lg yel, chopped
1 1/2 lb Lamb shoulder, ground
2 tb Chili powder
1 x  Salt as needed
FOR BEANS:  Soak Beans overnight in 2 qt. Water.  In a large saucepan,
bring Beans to a bOil.  Add lamb bones and bouquet garni and 1 crushed
garlic clove.  Reduce heat and simmer till Beans are tender but not mushy.
Skim occasionally and add more Water if necessary to keep Beans submerged.
2 hrs. FOR CHILI: Heat 3 T. Oil in large heavy saucepan over moderate heat.
Add Onions and cook until soft, about 10 minutes.  Add 2 cloves garlic,
minced, and stir about 3 minutes.  Transfer Onion and garlic mixture to a
plate, using a slotted spoon.  Add remaining Oil to pan. Increase heat to
med.  high.  Add lamb and cook until no longer pink, breaking up with
spoon, about 6 min.  Return Onion mixture to pan; add Chili powder, Ginger,
thyme, red Chili, marjoram, Peppers and allspice. Stir 5 minutes. Add
Tomatoes ( and half of their liquid, if canned). Bring to a bOil then
reduce heat and simmer for another 5 minutes. Add 3/4 c of Zinfandel.
Simmer, skimming occasionally, for 30 minutes. Drain Beans and reserve the
cooking liquid.  Discard the bones and garni. Add Beans and remaining
Zinfandel to Chili mixture.  Salt and season as necessary. Simmer 30
minutes, adding bean cooking liquid as needed to keep Chili moist (or
soupy, as you like it).  This Chili is best made ahead and allowed to
season in the refrigerator for 24 hours. Reheat before serving.

