Title: ANTIPASTI FONTANAFREDDA - Country Living
Categories: Country liv, Appetizers, Snacks, Salads
Yield: 4 servings
4    Sprigs fresh parsley
8    Sprigs fresh basil
1/4 c  Grated Parmesan cheese
2    Large eggs
Boiling water
2 ts Balsamic vinegar
1/4 ts Salt
4    Ripe plum tomatoes
8    Anchovy fillets
1 tb Capers
1 ea Large sweet red, green, and
Yellow pepper
1    1/4-lb-piece beef tenderloin
2 tb Olive oil
1 c  Cubed peeled eggplant
1/4 c  Finely chopped onion
2    Cloves garlic, peeled and
-sliced
2 ts All-purpose flour
3/4 c  Heavy cream
1. Heat oven to 425'F. Place 12-inch sheet of aluminum foil on rimmed
baking sheet. Cut each pepper into 6 pieces; remove and discard stem
and seeds. Arrange peppers, skin side up, on foil. Place beef on foil
with peppers. Roast 20 to 25 minutes or until beef reaches an internal
temperature of 140'F. Remove from oven; place beef on plate and set
aside to cool to room temperature. Pull up sides of foil around
peppers and twist tightly to sea]. Set aside 20 minutes.

2. Meanwhile, grease four 6-oz timbale molds or custard cups. Set
molds into 8-inch-square baking pan, In small skillet, heat 1 T oil
over medium heat. Add eggplant cubes, onion, and half the garlic and
saute until golden and eggplant is tender. Remove from heat; stir in
flour until vegetables are uniformly coated. Stir in cream until
mixture thickens.

3. In blender or food processor fitted with chopping blade, blend
eggplant mixture, 2 sprigs parsley, 2 sprigs basil, the Parmesan
cheese, and eggs until smooth. Divide mixture among greased molds.
Pour boiling water into baking pan to reach 1 inch up sides of molds.

4. Reduce oven temperature to 325'F. Bake eggplant molds 30 to 35
minutes or until centers appear set when pan is jiggled. Remove molds
to wire rack; cool to room temperature. Cover and refrigerate several
hours or overnight.

5. Meanwhile, remove peppers from foil. Peel off and discard skins.
In md bowl, combine remaining oil, the vinegar, remaining garlic, and
1/8 t salt. Place roast beef in vinegar mixture and turn to coat
completely. Place peppers on top of beef. Cover bowl and refrigerate
several hours or overnight.

6. Just before serving, remove peppers and place beef on cutting
board and thinly slice crosswise. Set aside 4 pieces each red,
yellow, and green pepper. To make sauce, quarter tomatoes; remove and
dis- card seeds; coarsely chop tomatoes. In blender or food processor
fitted with chopping blade, blend tomatoes, remaining parsley, 2
sprigs basil, remaining 2 pieces each red, yellow, and green pepper,
and 1/8 t  salt until smooth.

7. To serve, run small knife around inside edges of molds to loosen
eggplant mixture; invert and unmold onto 4 serving plates. Arrange 2
anchovy fillets on top of each mold. Spoon some of sauce around each.
Arrange one piece each roasted red, yellow, and green pepper and
several slices beef on each plate. Sprinkle capers over each plate;
place one caper on top of each mold. Garnish each plate with a basil
sprig and serve. Pass additional sauce.

Nutrition information per serving-protein: 30 grams; fat: 32 grams;
carbohydrate: 15 grams, fiber: 4 grams; sodium: 407 milligrams;
cholesterol: 225 milligrams; calories: 457.

Country Living/Feb/94  Scanned & fixed by DP & GG

