Title: Art Cloninger's Rumtopf (Is it the REAL one?)
Categories: Aust/german, Fruit, Alcohol, Can/preserv
Yield: 1 crockfull
1 c  Sugar
1 lb Blackberries
1 c  Sugar
1 lb Pineapple, fresh
1 c  Sugar
Rum (at least 110 proof),
-as needed
1 lb Strawberries, in season
2 c  Sugar
1 lb Cherries, in season
1 c  Sugar
1 lb Peaches, in season
1 c  Sugar
1 lb Plums, in season
You need a Rumtopf crock with lid to make this properly.  If you
can't one of the authentic versions, you can use a small lidded crock
with a volume of 2-3 gallons.  Or, depending on the quantity you want
to make or the variety of fruits you add, you can use a crock as
large as you want. Fruits such as strawberries, cherries, peaches,
plums, blackberries, boyselberries, rasberries, and pineapple are
best to use.  Apples don't work too well in rumtopf.


1.  In a medium sized bowl, put 1 lb strawberries, and cover with 2
cups of sugar.  let sit until all sugar is liquified and a syrup is
formed. You can use the strawberries whole, or sliced in half, or in
bite sized pieces if you have very large strawberries.  I prefer
strawberries that are about the size of the first joint of my thumb
and cut in half.

2.  Place the strawberries in a Rumtopf crock with lid, and add
enough rum to cover.  Use an inverted saucer which fits the crock to
hold the strawberries under the rum.  Cover the crock with an elastic
plastic cover and place the lid on top.  Let stand until the next
fruit comes into season.

3.  When in season, place one pound of cherries in a medium sized
bowl and cover with 1 cup of sugar.  Let sit until sugar liquifies.
Cherries can be pitted and sliced in half, pitted and left whole, or
just left as without the stem.  You can make up a batch of each
version and add each to the crock, adding more rum as needed to
cover.  Remember to use the inverted saucer to hold the fruit under
the rum and cover the crock as before.

3.  Peel and slice the peaches before placing 1 pound in a medium
sized bowl and covering with 1 cup of sugar.  Repeat the procedures
for the strawberries and cherries add the peaches to the mixture.
Continue to add rum as necessary to cover the fruit.

4.  As they come in season add the plums (pitted and sliced) and whole
blackberries, following the same procedures for the previous fruit.
I find that frozen whole blackberries work fine since fresh
blackberries are rather hard to come by where I now live at
reasonable cost and quality.

5.  By this time you should have travelled through the year to August
or September.  Now to finish it all, I buy a fresh pineapple at my
local supermarket and peel, core, and slice it and cut up into
bite-sized chunks.  Place a pound of it into a medium sized bowl and
cover with 1 cup of sugar, and let sit until the sugar liquifies.
Add to the crock and add all remaining rum.  Cover with the inverted
saucer, elastic plastic cover and crock lid and let sit until
November or December......then ENJOY for as long as it lasts.

Rumtopf is great over ice cream, pound cake, and just by itself.  It
also adds a new touch when a spoonful of Rumtopf is placed in a glass
of white wine.  Use your imagination....

