Title: ASPARAGUS STRUDEL - Country Living
Categories: Appetizers, Country liv
Yield: 8 strudel
-cheese
1/3 c  Sour cream
1    Large egg, lightly beaten
1/2 ts Salt
1/4 ts Ground black pepper
8    17-by 12-inch phyllo
-(strudel) leaves, thawed
-if frozen
6 tb Butter, melted
Tomato Vinaigrette (recipe
-follows)
48    Thin stalks asparagus
1    Large shallot
1 tb Chopped fresh mint leaves
1 tb Chopped fresh dill
1 tb Chopped fresh parsley
-leaves
2 tb Olive oil
1    Leek, white part only, cut
-into thin slivers
3/4 c  Sliced blanched almonds,
-toasted
1/2 c  Coarsely shredded Gruyere
1. Cut or break off and discard woody ends of asparagus. Rinse
asparagus. In large skillet, heat 1/2 inch water to boiling. Add
asparagus; cook 3 minutes. Drain and cool. Dry skillet and set aside.
Cut off and reserve 2-inch pieces from tip-ends of asparagus for use
in step 5 below.

2. In food processor fitted with chopping blade, puree remaining ends
of asparagus with shallot, mint, dill, and parsley.

3. In same skillet, heat oil. Add leek and cook 2 minutes. Add
asparagus puree; cover and cook 3 minutes. Remove from heat. Stir in
1/2 C toasted almonds. In small bowl, combine cheese, sour cream,
egg, salt, and pepper. Stir warm asparagus mixture into cheese
mixture; set aside until step 5.

4. Heat oven to 350'F. Unfold phyllo leaves; cover with damp towel.
(Phyllo dries out very quickly. Each time you remove a sheet, be sure
to re-cover remaining sheets with damp towel.) Remove one sheet of
phyllo to a flat surface; brush lightly with butter. Lay another
sheet of phyllo on top, brush with butter; repeat 2 more times to
make 4 layers. Cut sheet lengthwise in half; then cut each piece
crosswise in half. Repeat with remaining 4 sheets of phyllo to make 4
more rectangles.

5. Divide asparagus mixture among phyllo rectangles (about 2 T  on
each) placing it along one 6-inch side of each rectangle. Fold both 8
1/2-inch sides of each phyllo rectangle in to cover 1/2 inch of
asparagus mixture.

6. Starting from filling-covered side of one rectangle, roll phyllo to
enclose filling and make a 5-inch-long strudel about 1-1/4 inches in
diameter. Place seam side down on baking sheet. Insert 3 asparagus
tips into each end of strudel. Repeat with remaining phyllo
rectangles to make 8 strudel. Brush tops with butter.

7. Bake 10 to 12 minutes or until golden brown. Meanwhile, prepare
Tomato Vinaigrette. To serve, spoon about 1 tablespoon onto each
plate; place a strudel on top. Sprinkle with remaining almonds. Serve
immediately.

Tomato Vinaigrette: In 2-quart saucepan, heat 2 inches water to
boiling. Add 2 medium-size tomatoes and blanch 1 minute. Drain and
rinse with cold water. Core and peel tomatoes. Cut tomatoes crosswise
in half and remove all seeds. In food procesor fitted with chopping
blade, process tomatoes, 2 T olive oil, 1 T white-wine vinegar, and 1
t lemon juice until smooth. Makes about 1/2 C.

Country Living/May/93  Scanned & fixed by DP & GG

