Title: ASSEMBLING THE CAKE (WEDDING) 01 - House Beautiful
Categories: House beaut, Information, Cake/cookie
Yield: 1 info
MMMMM--------------------------SUPPLIES-------------------------------
Paper towels
Pastry bag with coupling to
-fit
-decorating tubes
Round decorating tips, one
-with a 1/16-inch opening
-(Ateco #2), and one with
-a 1/8-inch opening
-(Ateco #6)
Florist oasis
4-inch shallow plastic plate
Fresh flowers (consult a
-florist to make sure the
-flowers that actually touch
-the cake are not poisonous)
2 c  Orange marmalade, warmed
-and strained
1 lb Cornstarch
1 ea 12-inch, 8-inch, 5-inch
-round cake cardboard
Serrated knife, preferably
-with a round tip
Paring knife
Butter knife
10-inch icing spatula
Serving platter
Rolling pin
Pastry wheel
Scissors
25    8-inch lollipop sticks or
-chopsticks
Assembly: Remove cake layers from pans by placing each cake pan over
medium heat, rotating pan until its bottom feels warm, about 5 to 10
seconds. Flip layers out onto counter, making sure cakes all end up
right-side up.

Using a long serrated knife, level and trim off the top of each cake
layer. All cake layers should be of equal height. Make any needed
adjustments. Uneven layers result in an uneven cake.

Place a cake layer on each of the appropriate-size cardboard rounds.
Spread these bottom layers with the chocolate filling not quite to
the edge. Place the second layers on top and spread with filling. Top
with the third layers.

If necessary, trim cake cardboards with a scissors so that they are
exactly the size of each tier.

With a spatula, thinly coat sides and top of each tier with strained
marmalade. Set tiers aside to dry until they feel tacky before apply-
ing fondant.

Begin with the 12-inch tier. Knead the fondant icing until it is
smooth and elastic. Dust work surface with cornstarch and roll out
about 2/3 of the fondant into a 25-inch-diameter circle that is
1/4-inch thick. If it's too thin it will tear. Wrap unused fondant in
plastic wrap and set aside. Rotate fondant every second roll so it
doesn't stick. Use additional cornstarch as needed to prevent the
fondant from sticking to the work surface or the rolling pin.

Dust the top of the fondant round with cornstarch. Roll the fondant
around the rolling pin and drape it over the 12-inch tier.

House Beautiful/March/94  Scanned & fixed by DP & GG

