Title: Avocado-and-Crab-Filled Phyllo Baskets - Country Living
Categories: Fish/seafoo, Appetizers, Country liv, Vegetables
Yield: 20 baskets
-leaves
1/2 ts Salt
1/4 ts Ground cumin
1/4 ts Chil1 powder
1/4 lb Fresh lump crabmeat or
1 cn (6 1/2-oz) crabmeat,
-drained
20    Fresh cilantro leaves
20    Thin slivers sweet red
-pepper (1/2 inch long)
1/4 c  (1/2 stick) butter, melted
3    17-by 12-inch phyllo
-(strudel) leaves, thawed
-if frozen
1 md Very ripe avocado
-(about 3/4 lb)
1/3 c  Sour cream
3 tb Chopped, peeled, and
-seeded, fresh cucumber
1 tb Lemon juice
1 tb Chopped fresh cilantro
These crispy baskets may be made ahead, hut the avocado-crab filling
must be prepared and spooned into them at the last minute.

1. To prepare phyllo baskets, heat oven to 400'F. Brush twenty 1
1/2-inch muffin-pan C with melted butter.

2. Unfold phyllo leaves; cover with plastic wrap, then damp towel.
(Phyllo dries out very quickly. Each time you remove a sheet, be sure
to cover remaining sheets with plastic and damp towel.)

3. Remove one sheet of phyllo and brush completely with melted
butter. With sharp knife, cut buttered phyllo lengthwise to make four
17- by 3-inch strips. Trim off and discard 1 inch from each end of
phyllo strips. Cut each strip into five 3-inch squares, You should
have 20 squares of buttered phyllo in all. Repeat with remaining
phyllo.

4. Working quickly, stack 3 phyllo pieces, buttered side up, so that
corners do not line up. Using pastry brush, gent ly press stacked
pieces into bottom of muffin-pan C to create a basket with jagged
edges.

5. Bake phyllo baskets 6 to 8 minutes or until deep golden brown.
Cool in pan on wire rack 10 minutes; transfer to air-tight container
an store at room temperature until ready to use. Do not refrigerate
as phyllo wil1 lose its crispness.

6. No more than 3 hours before serving, prepare avocado-crab filling:
Cut avocado in half and peel; remove seed. In medium-size bowl, with
fork, mash avocado pulp until almost smooth. Stir in sour cream,
cucumber, lemon juice, cilantro, salt, cumin, and chil1 powder until
well combined. Gently fold in crab-meat just until combined. Cover
and refrigerate until ready to use.

7. Just before serving, spoon 1 heaping T of avocado-crab filling
into each phyllo basket. Garnish top with 1 cilantro leaf and 1 red
pepper sliver.

Country Living/June/90 Scanned & fixed by DP & GG

