Title: Bami Goreng
Categories: Indonesian, Main dish
Yield: 3 servings
2    Carrots
100 g  Soy beans
2    Cabbage leaves
4    Spring onions
Salt
Pepper
Parsley
Crisply fried onion strips
250 g  Mie noodles
100 g  Lean meat
60 g  Shrimp
5    Shallots
2    Cloves garlic
3    Kemiri nuts
2    Tomatoes
3 ts Ketjap Manis
Boil the mie for 5 minutes in lightly salted water (or according to
the instructions on the package). Put the mie in a strainer and rinse
it for a few seconds under cold running water. Then let it leak out.
Cut the meat into small cubes and the shallots into rings. Grind the
Kemiri nuts and the garlic together until you get a smooth paste.
Clean the soy beans (cut off the roots), scrape the carrots and cut
them into thin slices. Cut the cabbage into thin strips. Chop the
spring onions finely. Peel the tomatoes, remove the seeds and cut the
tomatoes into small cubes.

Heat 2 tablespoons of oil or lard in a wok. Add the shallots and
stir-fry for 1 minute. Add the Kemiri/garlic paste, the meat and the
shrimps. Stir-fry for another 2 minutes. Add the carrots and the
cabbage and stir-fry for yet another 4 minutes. Add the mie and the
soy beans and stir-fry for 3 minutes. Finally, add the soy sauce, the
tomatoes and the spring onions. Season to taste with salt and pepper
while stirring constantly to heat the food thoroughly. Serve
immediately. Garnish with parsley and crisply fried onion strips.

NOTES ON INGREDIENTS:

Mie noodles (pronounced "me") are long round noodles, like spaghetti,
but a bit thinner and firmer. They are sold pressed into brick or
tile shaped blocks.

You can use any meat you like for this dish, as long as it can be
stir-fried with good results.

Kemiri nuts (pronounced "Kammeeree"), also called "Boeah Keras"
(pronounced "Boo-ah Care-us"), is a type of nut with a shell that is
very hard to crack. The latin name is "Aleurites Moluccana" if that
is of any help. They can be bought in Chinese shops. Kemiri nuts must
be heated before consumption, because they contain a light poison
that can be neutralised by heating. If you can't find them, you can
substitute them with Macadam nuts (Macadamia Ternifolia) from Hawaii.

Ketjap Manis (pronounced "Cat-e-upp Mahnis") is a sweet soy sauce.

COMMENTS ON THE DISH:

This dish is not a complete meal in itself. In fact, it is the main
part of a meal, but it must be accompanied by a small number of
various side dishes. Here in Holland, it is made with flat noodles,
more vegetables (notably leeks), shredded omelette, no shrimps and a
generous amount of MSG. It is served with a fried egg and a coconut
and peanut condiment called Ketoembar (pronounced "Cat-oom-bar").
That version isn't really authentic Indonesian, but it has been
assimilated into the Dutch cuisine by now, so we could call it an
authentic Dutch dish. Although Indonesian food tends to be spicy,
this dish isn't. There's a good reason for that. The one essential
accompaniment is a chilli pepper paste called Sambal (pronounced
"Sumb-ahl"), of which there are numerous different versions. The most
simpel one is called Sambal Oelek (pronounced "Oolek"), which is just
made of pureed fresh red chilli peppers and a generous amount of
salt. I myself use it only for cooking, though many Dutch people use
it as a table condiment, because it it very cheap. I prefer Sambal
Badjak (pronounced "Bud-e-ahk"), which contains more ingredients, for
use at the dinner table.

~ Recipe by Sri Owen, comments by Heiko Ebeling.
Submitted By HEIKO EBELING   On   09-10-95

