Title: Basic Tomato Sauce (Jane Grigson)
Categories: Tomatoes, Salsa/sauce, Vegetables
Yield: 1 litre
2 1/4 lb Tomatoes; skinned & chopped
3/4 c  Dry white or red wine
Salt, pepper, sugar
Dried oregano
Chopped fresh basil
3 lg Cloves Garlic; chopped
1 lg Onion; chopped
4 1/2 oz Streaky bacon/coppa OPTIONAL
2 tb Butter, lard or bacon fat OR
3 tb Olive oil
1 lg Carrot; diced
Notes JG. A splendid sauce, one of the great freezer standbys if you
have a glut of home grown tomatoes of a good variety, e.g. Marmande,
which are firm all through and full of flavour. Don't bother to use
the Dutch and Guernsey tomatoes normally on sale in the UK; a large
can will give a much better taste. IMH. If you're planning on
freezing the sauce, you may prefer to leave out the garlic, as this
can sometimes develop an odd flavour in the freezer. Coppa is an
Italian rolled salted pork belly, very like British streaky bacon. If
you don't have any wine, you can substitute 1/2 the quantity of
marsala or brown sherry. Anything (or nothing) is better than the so
called cooking wine.
Method ====== Soften the garlic, onion and bacon, if used, in the
fat. Add the carrot, tomatoes and wine, breaking down canned tomatoes
with a wooden spoon. Raise the heat and cook hard, uncovered for 15
minutes, or more slowly for 45 minutes if the tomatoes are canned.
Add seasonings and oregano after 10 minutes. The chopped basil should
put in just before serving and a little more scattered over the top.
As a general principle, aim to finish with a chunky puree that is
moist rather than watery. If you are freezing the sauce, you will
find this the most useful texture. If you want to smooth out the
sauce a little, without spoiling its vigorous character, put it
through the coarse plate of a moulinette. If you are using some of
the puree to to flavour other sauces, e.g. sauce aurore, put it
through the medium plate. If you want to make cream of tomato soup, a
blender is the thing. Submitted By IAN HOARE   On   09-01-95

