Title: BRAISED CHICKEN AND VEGETABLES - Country Living
Categories: Country liv, Main dish, Poultry, Vegetables
Yield: 4 servings
-chicken broth, undiluted
1 c  Water
1/2 lb Large flat green beans
-(scarlet runner or other
-pole  beans)
Salt and ground black pepper
2 tb All-purpose flour
2 ts Worcestershire sauce
1    3-lb chicken
3/4 lb Small yellow squash
1 tb Olive oil
1 tb Butter or margarine
2 md Onions, each cut into
-8 wedges
1    Clove garlic, finely chopped
1 cn (10 3/4-oz) condensed
1. Remove neck and giblets from chicken. Rinse chicken, the neck, and
giblets. Pat dry on paper towels. Cut chicken into serving-size
pieces. Cut yellow squash lengthwise in half then cut each crosswise
in half.

2. In 5-quart Dutch oven, heat oil and butter over medium-high heat.
Add squash and cook until lightly browned on both sides. Transfer
squash to a large bowl.

3. Add chicken, the neck, and giblets, one half at a time, to Dutch
oven; brown pieces well on all sides. Remove pieces as they brown to
the bowl with squash. Add onions to Dutch oven and cook until well
browned and remove half of them to bowl with squash. Add garlic and
cook a few seconds. Add chicken broth and 1/2 C water; heat to
boiling.

4. Return chicken with any drippings in bowl to Dutch oven. Cover and
cook over low heat 15 minutes. Meanwhile, cut beans diagonally into
2-inch lengths. Move chicken to one side of Dutch oven and add beans
and browned squash to the broth. Increase the heat to high, cover,
and heat to boiling. Cook chicken and vegetables 15 minutes longer or
until ten- der. Season chicken and vegetables with salt and pepper to
taste.

5. Transfer chicken and vegetables to a serving platter, leaving the
broth in the Dutch oven, In a cup, combine flour with 1/2 C water and
Worcestershire sauce. Stir flour mixture into the broth in the Dutch
oven. Increase the heat to high and heat broth to boiling, stirring
constantly, until thickened. Serve sauce with chicken and vegetables.

Country Living/Sept/92 Scanned & edited by Di Pahl & <gg>

