Title: Caesar Salad w/ Sun-Dried Tomatoes
Categories: Newspaper, Salads
Yield: 4 servings
2 c  Olive oil
4 ts Thyme
1 c  Parmesan cheese (see note)
Salt & black pepepr to taste
16    Sun-dried tomatoes
2    Heads romaine lettuce
1 cl Garlic; cut in half
2 tb Egg substitute
2 tb Creole mustard or a coarse
.  grain mustard
2 tb Anchovy paste (see note)
6 tb Balsamic vinegar
5 tb Lemon juice
4 cl Garlic; smashed & chopped
. very fine, then mixed with    1 1/2 c  Plain croutons  * OR *
. stale French bread; cubed
. 1/4 tsp salt
1 c  Vegetable oil
Whisk together the egg substitue, mustard, anchovy paste, vinegar,
lemon juice and the garlic/salt mixture.  Whisk in the begetable oil
a drop at a time until you begin to have an emulsion (the oil no
longer floats on top and is incorporated in the liquid).  Pour in the
remaining oil in a slow steady stream, whisking continuously, until
the oils are incorporated. Stir in the thyme and cheese.  Season to
taste with salt and pepper. This may be done at least a week ahead.

An hour and 15 minutes before you wish to serve the salad, soak the
sun-dried tomatoes in water to cover for 1 hour or until softened;
drain. Put the tomatoes on a paper towel, cover with another towel
and gently press to remove excess moisture.  Cut the tomatoes into
quarters.

Clean the lettuce and remove the leathery outside leaves, reserving
for another use.  Cut the remaining leaves into bite-sized pieces.

Rub the inside of the salad bowl with the cut garlic clove and put the
lettuce in the bowl.  Toss.  The lettuce will pick up some of the
garlic oil.  Add the tomatoes and about 1 cup of the dressing and
then toss. (Reserve the remaining dressing for another use.)  Add
more dressing if it seems too dry.  Toss again with the croutons.

NOTE:  You may substitute 1 Tbsp Worcestershire sauce for the
anchovy, if you must.  If you normally use domestic Parmesan (the
kind sold in most grocery stores), substitute domestic Romano; the
flavor is close to that of imported Parmesan.  Add thinly sliced beef
to the salad for bigger appetites.

Nutritional Information per serving:  438 calories, 35g fat, 3mg
cholesterol, 354mg sodium

**  Dallas Morning News - Food section - 26 July 1995  ** Posted by
The WEE Scot  --  Paul MacGregor
Submitted By PAUL MACGREGOR   On   08-18-95

