Title: CARAMEL COCONUT CUSTARD WITH PLANTAINS - Country Living
Categories: Desserts, Puddings, Country liv
Yield: 4 servings
1/8 ts Salt
Vegetable oil for frying
1    1-lb green plantain
1 tb Confectioners' sugar
1/4 ts Ground cinnamon
1/3 c  Granulated sugar
3 tb Water
1/4 c  Boiling water
1 cn (3 1/2-oz) flaked coconut
1 c  Half-and-half
4    Large eggs
1. Lightly grease four 6-oz timbale molds or custard cups. Set aside 2
tablespoons granulated sugar. In medium-size saucepan, combine
remaining granulated sugar and the water. Heat, stirring
occasionally, until syrup turns golden. Divide syrup into greased
molds.

2. Heat oven to 350'F. To make custard mixture, in electric blender,
combine boiling water and coconut; blend until coconut is very finely
chopped. Add half-and-half, eggs, reserved 2 tablespoons granulated
sugar, and the salt; blend just until combined. Strain custard
mixture into bowl, and discard coconut, Divide custard mixture into
molds.

3. Place molds in 9-inch-square baking pan. Pour enough boiling water
into pan to come halfway up sides of molds.

4. Bake custards 35 to 40 minutes or until centers seem firm when
mold is tapped. Remove molds from baking pan and allow to cool to
room temperature on wire rack. Cover tightly and refrigerate until
well chilled.

5. Just before serving, in 2-quart saucepan heat 2-inches oil until
deep-fat thermometer registers 375'F. Peel plantain and thinly slice
diagonally. Fry plantain slices in hot oil until golden on both
sides-about 3 minutes, Drain well.

6. With tip of knife, loosen edges of custards. Dip molds into boiling
water to melt caramel-about 3 minutes or until the custard seems to
have loosened on bottom. Invert a custard onto each of 4 dessert
plates. Allow caramel syrup from molds to run onto top of custards.

7. In small cup, stir together confectioners' sugar and cinnamon.
Place mixture in tea strainer and sift over both sides of plantain
slices. Carefully insert 8 plantain slices into side of each custard
to resemble flower petals. Serve immediately.

RESTAURANT LAFAYETTE

Country Living/Dec/90  Scanned & fixed by DP and GG

