Title: Chicken in the Pot with Carrots, Mushrooms and Thyme
Categories: Poultry
Yield: 4 servings
4 md Carrots
-halved crosswise
-then halved lengthwise
8 oz Mushrooms
-cleaned and halved
3 lg Thyme sprigs (1 1/2 ts) or
1/2 ts Dried thyme
1/2 c  Dry white wine
1    Chicken (3-4 lb), rinsed
-patted dry, cut in 8 pcs
1/2 ts Salt
1/4 ts Black pepper
1 tb Butter
1 tb Vegetable oil
1 lg Onion(s), sliced or
2 md Leeks, rinsed
-and quartered
1. Sprinkle chicken with salt and pepper. Heat butter and oil in
12-inch saut pan over medium-high heat. When butter foam subsides,
add chicken; saut until browned on both sides, moving around to brown
evenly, 10-15 minutes. Remove from pan and set aside.

2. Discard all but a thin film of fat from the pan. Add onion,
carrots, and mushrooms; saut, stirring frequently to prevent
scorching, until pan juices evaporate, 4-5 minutes.

3. Return chicken and accumulated juices to pan, moving vegetables to
top. Add thyme and wine; bring to boil. Lower heat, cover and barely
simmer until chicken is cooked through, basting three or for times,
about 25 minutes. Place portion of chicken on each plate; top with
vegetables. Ladle juices over both chicken and vegetables and/or
accompanying starch (rice pilaf makes a nice accompaniment) and serve.

Chicken in the Pot with Tomatoes, Black Olives, and Capers
: omit carrots
: add 1 garlic clove(s), minced, once pan juices have evaporated
: once chicken is returned to pan add
: 1 can (28oz) plum tomatoes, drained, halved, seeded and coarsely
chopped : 3 tbs each minced fresh parsley and basil leaves
: 1/2 cup black olives, pitted and coarsely chopped
: 2 ts drained capers
: substitute hearty red wine for white and decrease wine to 1/4 cup

Chicken in the Pot with Turnips and North African Spices
: substitute 2 turnips, sliced -inch thick, then cut into -inch strips
: for the mushrooms
: add 1 garlic clove(s), minced, once pan juices have evaporated
: once chicken is returned to pan add
: 1/4 ts cayenne pepper
: 1/4 ts ground cumin
: 1/4 ts ground cinnamon
: 1/8 ts ground coriander
: 1 cup cooked chickpeas
: substitute 1/2 cup chickpea cooking liquid for the wine

Chicken in the Pot with Potatoes and Indian Spices
: substitute 3 medium potatoes, peeled and cut into 1-inch chunks
: for the mushrooms
: once pan juices have evaporated add
: 2 garlic clove(s), minced and 1 tb fresh ginger, minced
: once chicken is returned to pan add
: 1 ts ground cumin
: 1/2 ts ground turmeric
: 1/2 ts ground coriander
: 1/8 ts cayenne pepper
: a pinch of ground cinnamon and
: 1/4 ts salt
: substitute 1/2 cup plain yogurt mixed with 1/3 cup chicken stock
: for the wine
: rather than bring liquid to a boil, bring it barely to simmer
: add 1 cup thawed frozen peas in last 3 minutes of cooking

Cook's Illustrated October 1995
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   08-24-95

