Title: CHICKEN PALAW - Country Living
Categories: Country liv, Poultry, Main dish
Yield: 4 servings
-into 2-inch chunks
1/4 c  Apple juice
1 tb Curry powder
1/4 ts Ground coriander
1/4 ts Ground cumin
2 tb Dark seedless raisins
2 tb Shelled natural pistachios
2 tb Sliced blanched almonds,
-lightly toasted
1 1/4 c  Basmati or other long-
-grain white rice
1 1/2 ts Salt
1/4 c  (1/2 stick) butter
3 tb Olive oil
2    Large carrots, cut into 1/8
-inch-thick julienne strips
2    Whole boneless skinless
-chicken breasts, cut
1. In heavy 5-quart Dutch oven, heat 2 quarts water to boiling over
high heat. Stir in rice and 1 t salt; return to boiling and cook,
uncovered, 10 minutes. (Rice will not be completely cooked. Drain
rice thoroughly in strainer.

2. In same pan, melt butter with 2 tablespoons oil over low heat.
Spoon half of hot rice into pan and press down with the back of spoon
to make a firm layer that covers bottom of pan. Spoon remaining rice
loosely on top of bottom layer, then top this with carrot strips.
Cover top of pan with a linen towel (folded so edges are not near
heat source) and a tight lid. Cook 35 to 40 minutes or until the
bottom layer of rice forms a crisp, golden crust. (After 20 minutes,
check to see if a crisp, golden crust is forming by lifting bottom
layer of rice gently with a fork. If crust is not forming, increase
heat slightly.)

3. Meanwhile, in large skillet, saute chicken in remaining 1 T  oil
over medium heat until golden on all sides. Add apple juice, curry
powder, coriander, cumin, and remaining 1/2 teaspoon salt; stir until
chicken is coated with spices. Cook, stiffing frequently, until
chicken is cooked through and liquid has evaporated-about 5 minutes.

4. To serve, in large bowl, combine the steamed top part of rice
(reserving the bottom crust) with carrots, the raisins, pistachios,
and almonds; toss to blend. Spoon rice mixture onto individual plates
or serving platter and top with chicken mixture. Break bottom rice
crust into pieces and place around plate. Serve immediately.

Nutrition information per serving-protein: 63 grams; fat: 34 grams;
carbohydrate: 50 grams; fiber: 3 grams; sodium: 508 milligrams;
cholesterol: 183 milligrams; calories: 766.

Country Living/Feb/94  Scanned & fixed by DP & GG

