Title: Chinese Pork & Shrimp Rice Noodles in Broth
Categories: Newspaper, Asian, Meats, Fish/seafoo, Pasta/rice
Yield: 6 servings
3    Green onions; cut into 2"
.  slivers
1 c  Small shrimp; peeled &
.  deveined
8 c  Chicken stock
1/2 lb Rice stick noodles (may
.  substitute egg noodles
.  or vermicelli)
1 ts Salt
1/4 ts Black pepper
4    Oriental mushrooms; dried
.  * OR *
. 6 fresh mushrooms
6    Leaves of Napa cabbage
1/2 lb Pork chop meat; thinly
.  sliced into 1/4" strips
1 tb Soy sauce
1 ts Hoisin sauce
3 tb Water
2 ts Cornstarch
4 tb Vegetable oil
Soak the dried mushrooms in hot water for 10 minutes.  Remove the
stems and slice the caps into strips.  (Just slice the fresh
mushrooms, if using fresh).  Set aside.

Stack the cabbage leaves; then cut across into strips 2 inches wide.
Cut each strip across the width into slivers 2 inches in length.  Set
aside.

Place the pork strips in a bowl with the soy sauce, hoisin sauce,
water and cornstarch.  Mix until the pork is thoroughly coated.  set
aside to marinate for 20 minutes.

Heat the oil in a wok or large skillet over high heat and stir-fry
the pork for 3 minutes.  Using a slotted spoon, drain the pork and
remove to a paper-towel-lined plate.

Bring the oil back up to high heat and stir-fry the mushrooms and
onions for 2 minutes.  Add the shredded cabbage and shrimp and fry
until the shrimp becomes pink and the cabbage becomes limp.

Add the stock and bring to a boil.  Add the rice noodles and boil for
one minute.  Return the pork to the wok just to heat through and
season with the salt and pepper.

NOTE:  Some ingredients may be available only at Asian grocers.

Vietnamese variation: Omit the mushrooms. Stir-fry the onions with the
pork.  Substitute 3 large tomatoes, each cut into 6 segments, for the
cabbage.  Serve the soup in individual bowls, first placing a lettuce
leaf torn into a few pieces, a few bean sprouts, 4 or 5 narrow strips
of cucumber, 3 mint leaves and a scattering of chopped cilantro
leaves in the bottom of each bowl before pouring the soup in. Garnish
with a sprinkling of crushed peanuts.  This version may also be made
with chicken instead of pork.

Nutritional Information per serving:  411 calories, 20g fat, 122mg
cholesterol, 1753mg sodium

**  Dallas Morning News - Food section - 26 July 1995  ** Posted by
The WEE Soct  --  Paul MacGregor
Submitted By PAUL MACGREGOR   On   08-17-95

