Title: CHOCOLATE-RASPBERRY ROLL - GH_9405
Categories: Good housek, Desserts, Chocolate, Fruit
Yield: 12 servings
1    (8-oz) container chocolate
-flavor frozen whipped
-topping, thawed
1/2 pt Raspberries for garnish
Mint leaves for garnish
5    Large eggs, separated
Confectioners'sugar
1/8 ts Salt
Unsweetened cocoa
2 pt Raspberry sorbet
ABOUT 5 HOURS BEFORE SERVING OR DAY AHEAD:

1. Preheat oven to 400'F. Spray 15 1/2" by 1O 1/2" jelly-roll pan with
nonstick cooking spray. Line pan with waxed paper; spray paper.

2. In small bowl, with mixer at high speed, beat egg whites until soft
peaks form. Beating at high speed, gradually sprinkle in 1/2 cup
confec- tioners' sugar, 2 T  at a time, beating well after each
addition until sugar dissolves and whites stand in stiff peaks.

3. In large bowl, with same beaters and with mixer at high speed,
beat egg yolks until thick and lemon-colored. Reduce speed to low;
beat in salt, 1/2 cup confectioners' sugar, and 1/4 cup cocoa,
occasionally scraping bowl with rubber spatula. With rubber spatula
or wire whisk, gently fold beaten egg whites into egg-yolk mixture.
Spread batter evenly in jelly-roll pan and bake 15 minutes or until
top of cake springs back when lightly touched with finger.

4. Sprinkle clean cloth towel with some cocoa. When cake is done, with
small spatula, immediately loosen edges from sides of pan; invert
cake onto prepared towel. Carefully peel and discard waxed paper from
cake. If you like, with knife, cut off crisp edges. Starting from a
narrow end, roll cake with towel, jelly-roll fashion. Cool rolled
cake completely, seamside down, on wire rack.

5. Remove sorbet from freezer to countertop to soften slightly. Unroll
cooled cake; evenly spread sorbet over cake. Starting from same
narrow end, roll cake without towel. Wrap roll tightly with foil;
freeze un- til firm, at least 3 hours.

6. To serve, place roll, seam-side down, on chilled platter. Spoon
whipped topping into decorating bag with large star tube. Pipe
topping over cake roll; sprinkle some raspberries on top. Garnish
with mint leaves and remaining raspberries.

Each serving: About 120 calories, 2 g fat, 89 mg cholesterol, 50 mg
sodium.

Good Housekeeping/May'94/scanned & fixed by DP & GG

