Title: CHOCOLATE CHERRY TORTE 02 - Country Living
Categories: Country liv, Holiday, Desserts, Cake/cookie, Pie/tart
Yield: 10 servings
Part two
7. To assemble torte, using the bottom of a 9 by 5-inch loaf pan as a
pattern, cut chocolate cake into three 9 by 5-inch rectangles; use
leftover cake trimmings for snacking. Line the inside of the loaf pan
with plastic wrap, allowing 2 inches to extend over the sides so
assembled torte can be easily removed from pan.

8. Place one cake rectangle in bottom of pan; brush generously with
some Coffee Syrup. Spread half of cheese filling on top of cake in
pan. Place another cake rectangle atop filling; brush with Coffee
Syrup and top with cherry filling. Place remaining cake atop cherry
filling; brush with remaining Coffee Syrup and top with remaining
cheese filling, spreading smoothly as this will be top of torte.
Cover torte with overhanging plastic wrap and refrigerate at least 4
hours or overnight. Prepare Chocolate Meringue Twigs.

9. To serve, remove torte from pan by pulling up plastic wrap on all
sides. Place torte on serving plate and gently pull plastic wrap to
remove from underneath. Gently press flat sides of chocolate twigs
upright onto sides of torte to cover completely. If desired, tie
ribbon around sides of torte, ending in a bow in the center of one
long side. Top torte with fresh cherries, if desired, and serve. Or
refrigerate up to 2 hours before serving. (Twigs will eventually
soften with refrigeration.)

Chocolate Meringue Twigs: Heat oven to 275'F. Line 2 large baking
sheets with parchment paper (if not available, use aluminum foil and
grease lightly). Place 1/2 C sugar and 2 large egg whites in
medium-size bowl. Set the bowl in a larger bowl of very hot, not
boiling, water. With portable electric mixer at high speed, beat
mixture until thick and nearly double in volume. Remove bowl from hot
water and continue beating egg whites until very stiff peaks
form-about 4 minutes. Sift 2 T unsweetened cocoa powder over meringue
and fold in until blended. Transfer chocolate meringue to pastry bag
fitted with a 3/8-inch round tip. Making narrow rows, pipe 3 to
4-inch long "twigs" of meringue onto baking sheets. Bake meringue
twigs 1 1/2 hours or until dry and firm. Cool twigs completely on
baking sheets on wire racks. Meanwhile, melt 1 1/2 oz bittersweet
chocolate in microwave or in bowl set over simmering water. Dip fork
in melted chocolate and quickly move it back and forth across twigs,
creating thin chocolate stripes. Refrigerate twigs just until
chocolate stripes harden-about 5 minutes. Gently remove twigs from
parchment and store in airtight container, unrefrigerated, until
ready to use.

Note: Dried cherries are available by mail from American Spoon Foods,
1668 Clarion Ave., P.O. Box 566, Petosky, Mich. 49770-0566; (800)
222-5886.

Country Living/December/92 Scanned & fixed by Di Pahl & <gg>

