Title: Cooking Seafood in the Microwave - Part 1
Categories: Information, Microwave
Yield: 1 info
No ingredients found
Purchasing Seafood to Microwave

Fish are a natural in the microwave because they contain a lot of
moisture. Microwave, produced from electricity in the oven's
magnetron tube, are absorbed by water. This cause the water molecules
to vibrate 2 million times per second, creating friction and,
consequently, heat within the food. The food literally cooks itself
while the air and utensil stay cool.

Fish and shell fish come in all shapes and sizes. If different
seafoods will be combined and cooked together, select similarly sized
pieces so the fish or shellfish will cook evenly and be done at the
same time.

Defrosting Frozen Seafood

To defrost one pound of fish fillets frozen together in a block, crimp
small strips of aluminum foil around the ends of the carton or
unwrapped block of fish. This prevents the ends from cooking.
Microwave on medium-low (30%) about 8 minutes, flipping the carton or
block over midway through defrosting. Return the fish to the
refrigerator to finish thawing.

Because shrimp and scallops can thaw quickly in the microwave and
begin to cook, it's best to not defrost them in the microwave.
Instead, place them in the refrigerator overnight or, in a pinch,
under cold running water.

Estimating Cooking Time

The more seafood you put in the microwave, the longer it will take to
cook. Microwave all seafood on high power:
Squid rings
1-2 minutes per pound
Shrimp and scallops
2-3 minutes per pound
Fish fillets and steaks
3-4 minutes per pound
Small clams or mussels
4-5 minutes per dozen
:
:
:
:
:
:
:
:

Arranging Fish for Microwaving

Since microwaves are reflected off the oven's walls into food, they
cook the outside edges first. The heat is eventually conducted into
the center. So it's important to choose and arrange seafood so it
cooks as evenly as possible.

For fillets or steaks of uniform size and thickness, arrange along the
inside edge of baking dish, placing none in the center. For fillets of
uneven thickness, overlap thin ends, forming a wreath of
approximately even thickness. Fillets can be stuffed and rolled, then
arranged in a circle. For kebabs, use nonmetallic skewers such as
bamboo. Skewers should be threaded with like sizes of seafood. STand
clams hinge-side down around the inside edge of a dish. Lay mussels
on their sides in a circle with hinge end pointing to the outside of
the dish.

Covering Fish

Plastic wrap or a lid traps steam helping to cook fish evenly. Wax
paper can be used as a loose cover when you don't need to hold in all
the steam. Because paper towels absorb moisture, they should only be
used when microwaving crumb-coated fish. This helps keep the crumbs
from getting soggy, but the coating will not be crisp, as in a
conventional oven.

Rotating Fish

To promote even cooking, move the seafood midway through cooking;
rotate a baking dish; turn a thick steak over and stir shrimp,
scallops and cubes of fish. For kebabs of skewered seafood, rearrange
skewers, exchanging those at the outside with those in the center.

Standing Time

After the microwave turns off, seafood will continue to cook for a
minute or two. This is due to the continued vibration of water
molecules as they slow and come to a stop. Other phrases that mean
the same thing are "carryover cooking time" and "testing time". Test
seafood for doneness after the standing time is completed.

Simply Seafood Summer 1995
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   08-23-95

