Title: CURRIED BABY VEGETABLES IN CROUSTADE - Country Living
Categories: Country liv, Main dish, Vegetables
Yield: 4 servings
-1-inch pieces
1/4 c  Unsalted roasted cashews
2    To 3 t curry powder
1 ts Ground cumin
3/4 ts Sugar
3/4 ts Salt
1 tb Cornstarch
1/4 lb Sugar-snap or snow-pea pods
1 tb Lime juice
Pea sprouts (opt; available
-in gourmet produce markets)
2 1/2 c  Water
8 sm Red potatoes, halved (see
-Note)
8    Baby carrots, peeled
8    Baby turnips
8    Baby red onions
1    1-lb round loaf sourdough
-or Italian bread
1/2 lb Mixed baby zucchini and
-pattypan squash
1 tb Olive oil
1 sm Sweet red pepper, cut into
1. In 2-quart saucepan, heat water to boiling over high heat. Add
potatoes, carrots, turnips, and onions. Return to boiling; reduce
heat to medium and cook, uncovered, 10 to 12 minutes or until
vegetables are crisp-tender.

2. Meanwhile, make croustade: Heat oven to 300'F. With sharp knife,
cut out and remove a 4- to 6-inch round from top of bread, trimming
around any design on bread. With fingers, pull out center of bread,
leaving a 1/4-inch shell; reserve center of bread for another use.
Place croustade on baking sheet and warm in oven while completing
preparation of curried vegetables.

3. Stir zucchini and pattypan squash into potato mixture; cook 3
minutes longer. Drain vegetables, reserving 2 C cooking liquid.

4. In large skillet, heat oil. Add red pepper and saute just until
tender. Stir in cashews, curry powder to taste, the cumin, sugar, and
salt. Very gradually stir in half of reserved liquid.

5. With wire whisk, stir cornstarch into remaining 1 C liquid and
stir into mixture in skillet. Cook, stiffing constantly, until sauce
thickens. Fold in cooked vegetables, pea pods, and lime juice. Cook,
stirring until mixture returns to boiling.

6. Place croustade on serving plate; fill with vegetable mixture. (If
all of vegetable mixture does not fit, spoon around crustade on
serving platter or serve from separate bowl.) Garnish with pea
sprouts, if desired. To serve, with serrated knife, cut into 4
wedges. Place wedges on individual plates and top with vegetables.

Note: If desired, mature vegetables may be substituted for the baby
vegetables. Use 2 large potatoes, cut into eighths, 2 large carrots,
quartered, 1 large turnip, cut into eighths, 1 large red onion, cut
into eighths, and a 1/2-lb zucchini, cut into 1 -inch chunks.

Nutrition information per serving@rotein: 12 grams; fat: 11 grams;
carbohydrate: 70 grams; fiber: 8 grams; sodium: 741 milligrams;
cholesterol: 0; calories: 391.
Country Living/May/94 Scanned & fixed by DP & GG

