Title: Dessert Hints
Categories: Information, Desserts
Yield: 1 servings
Or 1/2 an apple in the
-package and closing
-tightly.  In a couple of
Hours, the sugar will be
-soft again.
- Fudge won't 'sugar' if
-you add a dash of cream of
-tartar
- Soften 'hard as a rock'
-brown sugar by placing a
-slice of soft bread
~ Too much sugar in a recipe??  Add a few drops of lemon juice or
vinegar. - Use a pizza cutter to cut bars or bar-cookies into nice,
smooth squares in half the time. - The more egg yolks in doughnut
dough, the less grease they will absorb when fried. - A few potato
slices added to the oil will keep doughnuts from burning. - After
mixing the dough for doughnuts, put in refrigerator at least 1 hour
to make it easier to handle. - Sweetened condensed milk and
evaporated milk are entirely different products and cannot be used
interchangeable in recipes.  Sweetened condensed milk if fresh, whole
milk with 60% of the water removed and 45% cane sugar added (sugar
acts as a preservative).  Evaporated milk is whole milk from which
water is removed but no sugar added.  Sweetened condensed milk has a
much thicker consistency and is great for desserts because it will
not get 'sugary' when heated and will not form ice crystals in frozen
desserts. Also, it thickens without heat when combined with an acid
such as lemon, orange, pineapple, or apple juices. - If you are
melting chocolate in a double boiler, or a custard cup set in a pan
of water, do not boil the water as this will only thicken or curdle
the chocolate. - To keep granulated sugar from lumping, place a
couple of salt crackers in container and cover tightly. - Before
measuring honey or other syrup, oil the cup with cooking oil and
rinse in hot water. - The key to successful custard preparation is
low heat; high heat causes the eggs to curdle, resulting in lumpy,
thin mixtures.  Either cook custard in a double boiler or if cooking
over direct heat, always use a heavy saucepan. Stir the mixture
constatnly with a whisk.  Check thickness by lifting the spoon from
custard and holding it for 15-20 seconds. If the spoon does not show
through mixture, the custard has thickened to the correct
consistency. Origin: Cooking with Love, compiled by Baptist Church in
Oregon. Shared by: Sharon Stevens, Aug/95.

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   08-29-95

