Title: EGGPLANT DI SICILIA - Country Living
Categories: Country liv, Vegetables, Side dish
Yield: 8 rolls
-prosciutto
8    Sticks part-skim mozzarella
Cheese (3 by 1/2 by 1/2
-inches)
8 lg Fresh basil leaves
Fresh flat-leaf parsley
-sprigs
2    Evenly shaped 8-inch-long
-eggplants
1 ts Salt
Fresh Tomato Sauce
- (recipe follows)
1/3 c  Olive oil
4    Cloves garlic, crushed
8    Thick slices (4 to 5 oz)
1. Cut stem ends off eggplants. Cut unpeeled eggplants lengthwise into
3/8-inch-thick slices. (You will need 8 even, center-cut slices. Use
end slices and any leftover side slices in other recipes.) Place 8
eggplant slices on large wire rack set in jelly-roll pan. Lightly
sprinkle both sides of slices with salt. Let stand until beads of
moisture appear on eggplant surface-about 30 minutes.

2. Meanwhile, prepare Fresh Tomato Sauce. Pour sauce into shallow
serving dish; cover and cool to room temperature.

3. In small saucepan, heat oil over medium heat. Add garlic and cook
until golden brown-about 1 minute. Remove oil from heat. Discard
cooked garlic and set garlic oil aside.

4. Heat oven to 450'F. Rinse eggplant under cold water; pat dry with
paper towels. Rinse and dry jelly-roll pan. Brush pan with some
garlic oil. Arrange eggplant in single layer on oiled pan. Brush both
sides of eggplant with garlic oil.

5. Bake 15 minutes, turning once, or until slices are tender. Cool
eggplant in pan on wire rack to room temperature.

6. Just before serving, cut off and discard any fat from edge of each
prosciutto slice. Place one prosciutto slice on each slice of
eggplant. Place one mozzarella stick across one of the short ends of
each egg- plant slice and top with basil. Starting from the cheese
end, roll up eggplant and prosciutto, then place seam side down in
dish of tomato sauce. Garnish with parsley sprigs. Serve rolls
immediately.

Fresh Tomato Sauce: In 2-quart saucepan, heat 2 inches water to
boiling. Drop in 1 1/4 lb ripe plum tomatoes, 4 or 5 at a time, for
15 seconds, then remove with slotted spoon to bowl of cold water.
Peel, core, and cut tomatoes in half. With fingers, scoop out and
discard all seeds and liquid. Coarsely chop remaining tomato pulp. In
large skillet, heat 3 tablespoons olive oil over medium heat. Add 1
medium onion, chopped, and saute until translucent-about 5 minutes.
Add 2 cloves garlic, chopped, and saute 1 minute. Add chopped
tomatoes, 3 sprigs fresh basil, 1/2 t salt, 1/2 t sugar, and 1/4 t
ground black pepper. Heat to boiling, Reduce heat to low and cook,
stirring occasionally, until mixture thickens-about 15 minutes.
Discard basil. Makes about 2 Cups.

Nutritional information per roll with sauce-protein; 13 grams; fat: 20
grams; carbohydrate: 13 grams@ fiber: 5 grams; sodium: 611 milligrams;
cholesterol: 25 milligrams; calories: 271.

Country Living/August/93  Scanned & fixed by DP & GG

