Title: FIELD GREENS WITH POLENTA, SAGA BLUE, AND TOASTED WALNUTS
Categories: Salads, Country liv, Vegetables
Yield: 8 servings
1/3 c  Walnuts
1 ts Butter, melted
1/2 c  Olive oil
1/4 c  Lemon juice
1 ts Sugar
1 1/2 qt Mesclun with nasturtiums
-and pansies or mixed salad
-greens, chilled until crisp
1 1/2 c  Water
1/2 c  Yellow cornmeal
3/4    12-oz-wheel Baby Blue Saga
-cheese
1    Large egg
1/4 c  Milk
1 ts Salt
1/4 ts Cracked black pepper
1. Several hours or day before serving, prepare polenta: Oil an
8-inch-square baking pan. In 2-quart saucepan, com- bine water and
cornmeal. Heat to boiling over medium heat, stirring constantly.
Reduce heat to low, cover and cook 5 minutes, stirring occasionally.

2. Cut and remove a 1/4-inch wedge of cheese from the piece; coarsely
chop the wedge including rind. Wrap and refrigerate remaining cheese
for use in step 7.

3. In a cup, beat egg until frothy; beat in milk. Add chopped cheese,
egg mixture, 1/2 t  salt, and the pepper to the warm cornmeal
mixture. Cook, stiffing constantly, over medium heat until mixture
bubbles. Pour into oiled pan. Set aside on wire rack 10 to 15 minutes
to cool to room temperature; cover tightly and refrigerate until
ready to prepare salad.

4. To prepare salad, heat oven to 400'F. Place nuts in a small baking
pan and toast in oven 5 to 7 minutes or until edges start to brown.

5. Meanwhile, lightly oil a baking sheet. Cut polenta into 16 squares
and place 1 inch apart on oiled baking sheet. Brush tops with melted
butter. When walnuts have toasted, reset oven to broil; broil polenta
squares 3 to 5 minutes or until tops are lightly browned.

6. To prepare dressing, in blender or small food processor, combine
oil, lemon juice, 2 T of the toasted walnuts (select the smaller
pieces), the sugar, and remaining 1/2 t salt. Process until smooth.

7. To serve, divide salad greens among salad plates. Slice remaining
cheese into 16 equal-size wedges. Arrange 2 squares polenta
alternated with 2 wedges cheese on top of greens. Divide remaining
walnuts onto salads. Serve immediately with dressing.

Country Living/May/93  Scanned & fixed by DP & GG

