Title: FLAKY BUTTER PASTRY - House Beautiful
Categories: House beaut, Pastry, Pie/tart
Yield: 1 tarts wort
-cut into 1/2-inch bits
1/4 c  Sour cream
1/2 ts White wine vinegar or
-cider vinegar mixed with
1 1/2 ts Ice water
1 c  Unbleached flour
1 ts Sugar
1/2 ts Salt
1/2 ts Baking powder
3 tb Cold unsalted butter,
In a medium bowl, combine flour, sugar, salt, and baking powder. Add
the butter and cut it into the flour with a pastry cutter or two
knives until it makes a very coarse meal. Place bowl in the freezer
for about 5 minutes. This will firm up the butter and insure a
flakier crust. Add the sour cream and vinegar and quickly blend it
into the flour with a pastry cutter or fork. With your hands, squeeze
the dough 7 or 8 times to incorporate the loose bits and gather the
dough together into a rough hall. If the dough is very dry and does
not hold together, add a little more ice water, one t at a time.
Flatten the dough into a 1-inch-thick disk, wrap in plastic wrap and
refrigerate at least 1,6 hour.

Let the dough sit at room temperature at least 15 minutes before
rolling. To roll the dough, sprinkle the work surface lightly and
evenly with a little flour. Rub the rolling pin with flour as well.
Roll the dough gradually in each direction, flattening as you go, to
form a large circle to desired size-do not roll thinner than
1/8-inch. If the dough cracks or puus apart, moisten torn edges with
a little water (using your finger or a pastry brush) and press
together to secure. Dust lightly with flour if the surface of the
dough is sticky.

Proceed as directed in the following recipes for desired filling.
Makes 8 to 9 oz of dough, enough for one 9- to 10-inch tart.

Variations The Apple Tart Master Recipe gives the basic method for
making free-forrn tarts. Following this method, you can make tarts
with a variety of fruits and in other sizes by simply multiplying or
dividing the pastry and filling. Proceed as directed in the following
recipes using the proportions given below:

For two 6- to 7-inch tarts, divide the recipe by two, rolling each
4-oz portion of dough into a circle about 8 to 9 inches in diameter.
Proceed as directed, using 1/2 of the filling for each tart. Leave a
2-inch border of dough uncovered to fold over the fruit. Bake each
tart about 25 minutes.

For four 5-inch tarts, divide the recipe by four, rolling each 2-oz
portion of dough into a circle about 7 inches in diameter. Proceed as
directed, using 1/4 of the filling for each tart. Leave a 1 1/2-inch
border of dough uncovered to fold over the fruit. Bake each tart
about 20 minutes. For eight 3-inch tarts, divide the recipe by 8.
Roll each 1-oz portion of dough into a circle about 4 inches in
diameter. Proceed as directed, using 1/8 of the filling for each
tart. Leave a 1-inch border of dough uncovered to fold over the
fruit. Bake tarts for about 15 minutes.

House Beautiful/August/1994  Scanned and fixed by Di and Gary

