Title: Four Ways of Cooking Plain Rice II/II
Categories: Information, Middle east, Pasta/rice
Yield: 1 batch
1    Info below
3.  An Egyptian Way

The ingredients and quantities are the same as in the first recipe,
but oil is sometimes used instead of butter or margarine.

Heat the butter or oil in a saucepan.  Throw in the rice and fry it
gently for a minute or so, until the grains are translucent and well
coated with fat.  Add the water and salt to taste.  Bring to the boil
and boil vigorously for 2 minutes, then simmer gently, tightly
covered and undisturbed, for about 20 minutes, until the rice is
tender and the characteristic little holes have appeared on the
surface. Never stir while it is cooking.  Allow to rest for 10
minutes before serving. 4. A Persian Way and a particularly excellent
one - Chilau or Steamed
Rice Use basmati rice. Wash it well in boiling water, and then
leave to soak in a bowl of well-salted water for 5 hours or
overnight.  An hour before it is due to be served, drain well and
rinse with cold water. Throw into a pan of boiling water with 2 tb.
salt.  The salt helps the grains to remain separate but does not
penetrate the grains and is lost with the water.

Boil the rice vigorously until it is slightly undercooked.  The grains
should, however, be cut easily with your teeth or a fingernail without
presenting a hard inner core.  The cooking time will be between 8 and
10 minutes.  Strain the rice immediately and rinse with lukewarm
water to remove excess salt.  Drain thoroughly.

The rice must now be steamed with 4 to 6 tb. oil or melted butter.
Put half the oil or butter at the bottom of a thick pan with 1 or 2
tb. of water. Heat gently and add the rice, then pour over the rest
of the melted butter or oil.  Place a clean cloth over the pan.  Put
the lid on, folding the corners of the cloth over it to keep them
away from the flame. The cloth will capture and absorb the steam as
it rises from the rice, leaving it white, light, and fluffy, each
grain separate from its neighbor. Leave over low heat for 15 to 20
minutes.

The rice at the bottom of the pan will be crisp and golden.  It is
generally scraped and served at the side of the rice dish.  Its
texture is considered a delicacy, to be offered first to guests.  It
is called "dig."

Some people like to put thin slices of fried bread or raw potato at
the bottom of the pan when steaming the rice, and serve them in the
same way as the crisp rice.

Roden wrote: "Although this preparation may sound rather complicated,
it is not so. The result is so exquisite that it is well worth
trying. You will then understand its importance in Persian life and
the national pride in this dish.

"Chilau is served with various sauces or khoreshtha - aromatic and
textual symphonies, the result of centuries of traditional
harmonizing, creating and enjoying.

"Served without a sauce, for example as an accompaniment to shish
kebab, it is eaten with a generous lump of butter and, traditionally,
with a raw egg yolk served in an eggshell.  The yolk is poured over
each individual portion of rice and then stirred into it, making a
glistening creamy sauce."

From "A Book of Middle Eastern Food" by Claudia Roden.  New York:
Random House, 1974.  Pg. 340-41.  ISBN 0-394-71948-4.  Posted by
Cathy Harned. Submitted By ROBERT MILES   On   09-08-95

