Title: Garnishing a Beet Strip or Sliced Rose
Categories: Information, Vegetables
Yield: 1 servings
No ingredients found
Another variation of the beet roses, and one which is very attractive
when set on parsley and used to garnish a meat, fish or poultry
platter, is the beet strip rose.

1. To make this vegetable flour, select a medium sized beet and peel
the outside skin.  Use a vegetable peeler and pare a long continuous
strip around the outside of the vegetable.  Peel the vegetable as you
would an apple to get the long thin strip.  To get the strips at
least 3-4 inches long.

2. After you have 2 or 3 of these long strips, place them in salt
water solution (1 tbsp salt to 1 quart water) for about 5 minutes.

3. Use the longest beet strip and wrap in into a loose coil.  Take the
shortest of the strips and roll it tightly.  Place this tightly rolled
strip into the center of the first ociled strip to form the rose.
Shape the flower to acquire a fill blooming rose.

BEET SLICED ROSE

1. Wash and peel a medium sized well round beet. Use a vegetable
slicer or a sharp knife and cut 5 or 6 paper thin slices from the
beet.  Start cutting these slices from the root end of the vegetable.
Place the slices into a solution of salt water, for about 5 minutes
to soften the petals.

2. Use the smalles slice and roll it up tightly.

3. Take the next smallest slice and wrap it around the first rolled
slice. From here on, wrap each petal in the opposite direction as
they are added to the flower.

4. Roll additional slices around each other, using the larger slices
for the outside petals. Secure the rolled slices with toothpicks.
Usse 2 or 3 toothpicks at the base of the rolled petals. After
securing the rolled petals with the toothpicks, gently fold down the
outside petals and shape the rose. When the rose if full shaped,
place it in ice water for about 5 minutes to set the shape.

** NOTE ** These beet sliced roses can be frozen for later use if
placed in a container of water. The flowers must be completely under
water when freezing.

Origin: The Fine Art of Garnishing, by Jerry Crowley. Shared by:
Sharon Stevens, Aug/95.

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   08-18-95

