Title: GENE'S APPLE CRUMB PIE - Country Living
Categories: Country liv, Desserts, Pie/tart, Fruit
Yield: 8 servings
6    Granny Smith apples or
-other tart apples
3/4 c  Firmly packed light-brown
-sugar
1 ts Ground cinnamon
Milk
1 tb Confectioner's sugar
2 c  Plus 2 T unsifted
-all-purpose flour
1 tb Granulated sugar
1/2 ts Salt
3/4 c  Vegetable shortening
3 tb Plus 1 t water
Crumb Topping (recipe
-follows)
1. Prepare pie crust: In large bowl, combine 2 C flour, the granulated
sugar, and salt; with pastry blender or 2 knives, cut shortening into
flour mixture until it resembles coarse crumbs. Stirring gently with
fork, gradually add 3 T water, until stiff dough forms. Add more
water, if necessary. Form dough into two balls, one slightly larger
than the other. Wrap and refrigerate larger ball.

2. On lightly floured waxed paper, roll out smaller ball of dough to
an 1 1-inch round. Invert pastry into 9-inch pie plate; remove waxed
paper and fit pastry into pie plate. Refrigerate while preparing
topping and filling.

3. Prepare Crumb Topping; set aside. Peel, core, and coarsely chop
apples. In large bowl, combine chopped apples, brown sugar, cinnamon,
and remaining 2 T flour; mix well. Transfer apple mixture to
pastry-lined pie plate, mounding apples slightly at the center.

4. Heat oven to 375'F. Place baking sheet or piece of aluminum foil
on the lower rack or floor of oven to catch crumbs. On lightly
floured waxed paper roll remaining ball of dough into a 12' inch
round. Invert pastry onto apple filling and remove waxed paper; press
pastry edges together and trim even with rim of pie plate. With small
knife, make eight 1-inch slits, randomly, in top crust of pie to
allow steam to escape.

5. Lightly brush top of pie with milk; pat Crumb Topping all over
pie. Bake pie 30 minutes; reduce oven temperature to 350'F and
loosely cover pie with aluminum foil to prevent over browning. Bake
pie 40 minutes longer. Cool pie on rack at least 40 minutes. Before
serving, in small bowl, combine confectioner's sugar and remaining 1
t water to make glaze; drizzle glaze over pie and serve.

Crumb Topping: In medium-size bowl, combine 1 C unsifted all-purpose
flour, 1/3 C sugar, 1/2 t ground cinnamon, and 1/4 t salt. With
pastry blender or 2 knives, cut 1/2 C (1 stick) butter into flour
mixture until it resembles coarse crumbs. Briefly rub mixture between
fingers to blend in butter; squeeze some mixture together to form
larger crumbs, if desired.

Country Living/June/92  Scanned & fixed by Di Pahl & <gg>

