Title: HAGGIS WITH TATTIES AND NEEPS - Country Living
Categories: Country liv, Main dish
Yield: 6 servings
1 ts Salt
1/4 c  (1/2 stick) butter, melted
1/3 c  Milk, warmed
Fresh lavender, rosemary,
-& sage for garnish (opt.)
Scotch Whisky
1    2-lb haggis (available from
-specialty butchers)
2 lb All-purpose potatoes,
-peeled & cut into eighths
1 1/2 lb Yellow turnips (rutabagas),
-peeled & cut into 1/2-inch
-cubes
1. In a 6-quart saucepot, bring 3 quarts water to boiling. Pierce
casing of the haggis once with a fork. Carefully place the haggis
into the pot of boiling water and boil 45 to 60 minutes or until
haggis feels firm and is cooked through.

2. One-half hour before haggis has finished cooking, prepare Tatties
(mashed potatoes) and Neeps (turnips). In a 3-quart saucepan, combine
potatoes and water to cover. Heat to boiling over high heat; reduce
heat to low and cook, covered, until potatoes are tender-about 20
minutes.

3. In a 2-quart saucepan, combine turnips, 1/2 t salt, and water to
cover. Heat to boiling over high heat; reduce heat to low and cook,
covered, until turnips are tender-about 25 to 30 minutes.

4. When potatoes are tender, drain well and return to saucepan. With
electric mixer, beat potatoes on low speed until all pieces are
broken up. Add 1/2 teaspoon salt, 2 T butter, and half of the milk.
Beat until mixture is smooth. Add remaining milk and beat at high
speed until sm 1 h and fluffy. Keep warm until ready to serve. If
desired, place some of potatoes in large pastry bag with large star
tip.

5. When turnips are tender, drain well and return to saucepan. Add
remaining 2 T butter and keep warm until ready to serve.

6. To serve, place haggis on serving platter. Spoon, or, if desired,
pipe several mounds of mashed potatoes around haggis leaving space
between mounds. Spoon some of turnips between potato mounds. Garnish
with lavender, rosemary, and sage, if desired. Pass remaining
potatoes and turnips. Give each guest a glass of Scotch to pour over
the haggis or to enjoy with it. If haggis has collagen casing, guests
may want to remove it from slices before eating.

Country Living/March/91  Scanned & fixed by Di Pahl & <gg>

