Title: Hazelnut Rusks
Categories: Aust/german, Cake/cookie
Yield: 1 servings
1/2 ts Almond extract
12 ea Ounces (2 generous cups)
-blanched hazelnuts
-(filberts), coarsely cut
3 c  Sifted all-purpose flour
1 ts Double-acting baking powder
1/4 ts Salt
3 ea Extra large or jumbo eggs
1 1/4 c  Granulated sugar
Adjust two racks to divide the oven into thirds and preheat to 360 F.
Cut aluminum foil to fit two 12 x 15-1/2 inch cookie sheets Sift
together the flour, baking powder, and salt and set aside.  In the
small bowl of an electric mixer beat the eggs with the sugar at high
speed for 12 to 15 minutes, until the mixture is almost white and
forms a ribbon when the beaters are lifted.  Beat in the almond
extract. Transfer the mixture to the large bowl of the electric
mixer.  On low speed add the dry ingredients, scraping the bowl with
a rubber spatula and beating only until smooth.  Fold in the nuts.
The dough will now be placed on the aluminum foil to form three
strips, two on one piece of foil and one on the other. Place
Tablespoonfuls of the dough touching each other lengthwise on the
foil.  The strips should be 13 inches long, 2 to 3 inches wide, and
about 1-1/2 inches thick. The two strips that are both on one piece
of foil should be about 3 inches apart. Place the dough carefully to
make the strips rather even in shape but do not smooth over the tops
or sides++they will run a bit in baking and will level themselves
enough. Slide a cookie sheet under each piece of foil. Bake the
strips for 25 to 30 minutes. Bake until the strips are firm to the
touch, they will remain pale in color. Remove from oven, but do not
turn off the heat. Slide the foil off the cookie sheets.  Let stand
for 2 or 3 minutes. Place a folded towel or pot holder in your hand
and invert a strip into it. Peel away the foil and then turn over and
place on cutting board. The strip is delicate so handle with care.
Repeat. While still slightly warm cut them with a finely serrated
knife.  Cut crosswise into 1/2" slices. These are best if no thicker.
Transfer the slices to the cookie sheets and place them upright with
a bit of space between them. Bake again at 350 F. for 10 minutes to
dry the cookies.  They will feel soft while hot but will become crisp
when cool. If they are not crisp they should be baked longer, if they
are thicker than 1/2 inch they might need a bit more baking, but do
not overbake them or they will become too hard and dry. When removed
from the oven they may be left on the cookie sheets to cool. From:
Book of Great Cookies Shared By: Pat Stockett

Submitted By PAT STOCKETT   On   09-17-95

