Title: Hot Garlic Potato Chips
Categories: Appetizers
Yield: 6 servings
2 tb Chopped Parsley
1 ts Salt
1/8 ts Black Pepper -- freshly
-ground
4    Idaho Potatoes (3 To 3 1/2
-Lbs) -- peeled
1 1/2 qt Vegetable Oil For Frying
3 tb Butter
1 tb Garlic -- pressed
1. With a mandoline or a sharp knife, slice the potatoes about
1/16-inch thick. You should have about 6 cups. Place the potato
slices in a large bowl and rinse with cold water until the water runs
clean. Thoroughly dry the potatoes, first in a salad spinner, then on
paper towels. This is important because any moisture left on the
potatoes will cause the oil to splatter.

2. Pour the oil in a 6-quart heavy bottomed, stright-sided saucepan,
8 to 10 inches in diameter. The oil should be 1 1/4 to 1 1/2 inches
deep and the pan no more than 1/4 full. This prevents any bubbling
over when frying the potatoes. Heat the oil to 315 F on a deep-fat
thermometer. (To check the temp. without a thermometer, drop a small
piece of bread the size of a crouton into the oil. It should float to
the surface and lightly brown in about 2 mins.)

3. Carefully fry the potatoes in 2-3 batches until light brown and
crisp. You will need to stir the potatoes with a slotted spoon almost
constantly to ensure even cooking. Each batch should take 15 to 20
mins to cook. (If the potatoes brown in less time, the oil is too
hot. This will result in a chip that is neither cooked through nor
crisp.)

4. As remove each batch of crisp chips, place them on a cookie sheet
lined with paper towels. When all the potatoes are done, place them
in a mixing bowl large enough to hold them comfortably.

5. Over a medium flame, heat the butter and garlic in a saucepan,
without allowing the garlic to brown. Drizzle the butter and garlic
over the potatoes, add the chopped parsley, salt, and pepper, and mix
thoroughly with a rubber spatula. Be careful not to crush the chips.
Serve hot.

NOTE: The chips can be made several hours in advance. Store in a
tightly closed container and reheat in a 350 F oven until hot. Toss
with the seasoned garlic butter at the last minute.

: The Union Square Cafe Cookbook - ISBN 0-06-017013-1
Recipe By

Date: 08-20-95 (22:13) (159)
From: Dan Klepach
Fido: Cooking

