Title: LASAGNETTE WITH WILD-MUSHROOM SAUCE - Country Living
Categories: Country liv, Pasta/rice, Main dish
Yield: 4 servings
-stemmed and sliced
3 tb Butter
1 tb Balsamic vinegar
1 pk 12-oz lasagnette pasta
-(if unavailable, substitute
-wide fettucine)
1/4 lb Hedgehog mushrooms (see
-Note)
2 tb Chopped fresh flat-leaf
-parsley leaves
Fresh flat-leaf parsley
Sprig (opt.)
3 tb Olive oil
3 lg (about 1 1/2 lb) onions,
-thinly sliced
1/4 c  White wine
3    Cloves garlic, finely
-chopped
2 ts Finely chopped fresh OR
1 ts Dried rosemary leaves
1/2 ts Salt
1/4 lb Cremini mushrooms, stemmed
-and sliced
1/2 lb Portabella mushrooms,
1. In large skillet, heat oil over medium heat; addonions, cover, and
cook 15 minutes, stirring occasionally. Reduce heat to low, uncover,
and cook 20 to 25 minutes longer, or until most of the liquid evapo-
rates and onions are very tender and golden. (Onions will sweeten
with long low-heat cooking.)

2. Add wine to skillet and cook until evaporated; stir in garlic,
rosemary, and 1/4 t salt and cook 2 minutes. Add Cremini and
portabella mushrooms and remaining 1/4 t salt; cover and cook,
stirring occasionally, until mushrooms soften-about 5 minutes.

3. Stir in butter and vinegar; simmer, uncovered, until liquid in pan
is reduced by half-about 10 minutes.

4. Meanwhile, cook pasta following package directions.

5. Add hedgehog mushrooms and chopped parsley to mushroom mixture;
cook, stirring gently, until hedgehog mushrooms are just slightly
tender- about 2 minutes.

6. Drain pasta very well and return to its cooking pot. Add mushroom
mixture and toss gently. Transfer to serving bowl and garnish with
parsley sprig, if desired.

Note: Pumpkin colored and sweet flavoted, hedgehog mushrooms are a
seasonal wild variety that are not cultivated commercially. Cook
hedgehogs briefly to retain taste and texture. If hedgehog mushrooms
are unavailable, oyster mushrooms can be substituted or the amount of
Cremini or portabelia mushrooms called for in the recipe can be
increased by a quarter pound.

Nutritional information per serving-protein: 16 grams; fat: 21 grams;
carbohydrate: 81 grams; fiber: 9 grams; sodium: 352 milligrams;
cholesterol: 23 milligrams; calories: 577.

Country Living/August/93  Scanned & fixed by DP & GG

