Title: Mandoo (Korean Dumplings)
Categories: Snacks
Yield: 48 servings
MMMMM-------------------------DUMPLINGS------------------------------
1 tb Cornstarch
1/4 ts Pepper
10 oz Pkg won ton wrappers
1 ea Egg; slightly beaten
Vegetable oil
Lettuce leaves; optional
3 c  Water
1 1/2 c  Fresh bean sprouts
5 1/4 oz Extra firm tofu
1 lb Lean ground beef
3 ea Green onions; minced
2 ea Garlic cloves; minced
2 tb Soy sauce
MMMMM--------------------MANDOO DIPPING SAUCE-------------------------
2 tb Soy sauce
2 ts Toasted sesame seeds
2 ts Rice vinegar
-or white distilled vinegar
2 tb Kochoochang (Korean hot,
-spicy fermented bean sauce
-or hot bean paste
2 tb Honey
TO PREPARE DUMPLINGS In a saucepan, bring the water to boiling. Add
bean sprouts; cook 3 minutes. Drain and rinse in cold water; drain
again. ry drained sprouts with paper towels, chop and set aside.
Place tofu in a double layer of 100% cotton cheesecloth; squeeze
until dry. Place tofu in a large bowl and mash with a fork. Add
chopped sprouts, beef, green onions, garlic, soy sauce, cornstarch
and pepper; mix well.
Spoon about 1 tablespoon of the filling in the center of each
wrapper. Moisten edges of wrappers with beaten egg; fold in half,
pressing to seal. If desired, fold small pleats along one edge. Place
pleated side up, on a lightly floured baking sheet; cover with a
slightly damp cloth until ready to cook or freeze. (To freeze,
arrange dumplings in a single layer on baking sheets; freeze until
firm. Transfer to a storage container; seal, label and freeze up to 3
monthes. Thaw in the refrigerator overnight before using).

TO PREPARE MANDOO WON TONS In a 3 quart heavy saucepan or deep fat
fryer, heat 3 inches of oil to 365 degrees F. Carefully fry
dumplings, 5 or 6 at a time in hot oil for 1-1/2 to 2 minutes or
until golden brown; turning once. With a slotted spoon, carefully
remove won tons. Drain on paper towels. Keep wark in a 300 degree F
oven while frying remaining won tons. If desired, serve on lettuce
with Mandoo Dipping Sauce.

TO PREPARE MANDOO POT STICKERS In a 10 inch skillet, heat 2
tablespoons oil over medium high heat. Arrange about 12 dumplings in
the skillet, pleated side up. Cook, uncovered, 1 to 2 minutes, or
until bottoms are lightly brown.
Reduce heat to low. Remove pan from heat; add 1/4 cup water all at
once near edge of skillet. Return to heat. Cover and cook 10 minutes.
Increase heat to medium high. Uncover; cook 3 to 5 minutes or until
water has evaporated. Add 2 teaspoons cooking oil to skillet; tilt to
coat bottom. Cook, uncovered about 1 minute. If desired, serve on
lettuce leaves with Mandoo Dipping Sauce.

TO PREPARE MANDOO DIPPING SAUCE In a small bowl, combine Kochoochang,
honey, soy sauce, sesame seeds and rice vinegar. Makes about 1 cup.

Makes 48 dumplings

Per Won Ton Calories: 58 Protein: 3 grams Fat: 3 grams Cholesterol:
15 mg Carbohydrate: 5 grams   Sodium: 49 mg

Per Pot Sticker Calories: 49 Protein: 3 grams Fat: 3 grams
Cholesterol: 15 mg Carbohydrate: 5 grams Sodium: 49 mg

Per 1 tablespoon of sauce Calories: 15 Protein: 0 Fat: 0 Colesterol: 0
Carbohydrate: 3 gram Sodium: 130 mg

Source: Nancy Byal, Better Homes and Gardens Magazine Typos by Dorothy
Flatman 1995
Submitted By DOROTHY FLATMAN   On   08-19-95

