Title: Meat Hints
Categories: Meats, Information
Yield: 1 servings
-This not only
Hleps to eliminate smoking
-of the fat, but reduces
-the chances of the
Fat catching fire.
- When broiling meats or
-bacon on a rack, place a
-piece or two of dry
Bread in the broiler pan to
-soak up the dripped fat.
~ Tenderizing Meat - Mechanical methods; Grinding, cubing and
pounding meat breaks down the connective tissue and makes meat
tender. Marinating; soaking meat in acid mixtures such as lemon juice
or vinegar tenderizes meat and adds flavor.  Often herbs and spices
are included in commercial marinades.  Meat tenderizers; These are
derivatives of natural food tenderizing agents found in some tropical
fruits (such as papaya) which soften meat tissue only while meat is
cooking. - For juicier burgers, add a stiffly beaten egg white to
each pound of hamburger, or make patties with one tablespoon of
cottag cheese in the center. - Marbled beef, which has intermingling
of fat with lean, indicates tenderness and rich flavor. - Pork chops
which are light in color are corn fed. - If you rub the skin of a
chicken with mayonnaise before baking, the skin will get crisp and
brown. - A half teaspoon of dry mustard added to a flour mix for
frying chicken adds great flavor. - The darker the flesh of a fish,
the higher it is in calories. - Rule of thumb for cooking fish. 10
minutes for each inch thickness. - To keep raw fish fresh and
odorless, rinse them with fresh lemon juice and water, dry
thoroughly, wrap and refrigerate. - For fluffier omelets, add a pinch
of cornstarch before beating. - Bacon will lie flat in the pan if you
prick it thoroughly with a fork as it fries. - Tenderize tough meat
by rubbing both sides with vinegar and olive oil. Let it stand two
hours before cooking. - To shape meatballs, use and ice cream scoop
to make uniform sized balls. Origin: Cooking with Love, compiled by
Baptist Church in Oregon. Shared by: Sharon Stevens, Aug/95.

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   08-30-95

