Title: MIXED-GREENS SOUP WITH TURNIP FRITTERS - Country Living
Categories: Soup/stew, Vegetables, Country liv
Yield: 6 servings
-cubes (or 4 regular-size
-cubes)
1/2 c  Dry white wine or water
1/4 c  Cornstarch
6 c  Packed whole fresh spinach
-leaves
1 1/4 ts Ground black pepper
1/2 ts Salt
1/4 c  Unsifted all-purpose flour
1    Large egg, lightly beaten
Vegetable oil for frying
1/4 c  (1/2 stick) butter
1 c  Chopped onion
1 c  Chopped green onions
2    Stalks celery, chopped
2 tb Finely chopped, peeled fresh
-gingerroot
2    Cloves garlic,
-finely chopped
1 lb Baby turnips with green tops
10 c  Water
2    Extra-large chicken bouillon
1. In 5-quart kettle or saucepot, melt butter over medium heat. Add
onion, green onions, celery, gingerroot, and garlic; cook, stirring
occasionally, until vegetables soften-about 10 minutes. Mean-while,
cut green leafy tops from turnips and reserve the greens that are in
good condition. Set turnips aside.

2. Add water and bouillon cubes to vegetables; heat to boiling over
high heat. Reduce heat to low and cook, stirring occasionally, until
bouillon dissolves. Add whole turnips to simmering broth and cook 6
to 8 minutes or until almost tender; remove turnips with slotted
spoon and set aside to cool.

3. In cup, stir wine and cornstarch until smooth. With wire whisk,
quickly stir cornstarch mixture into broth mixture; heat to boiling
over high heat, stirring constantly, until broth thickens slightly.
Reduce heat to low, add reserved tumip greens, the spinach, 1 t
pepper, and 1/4 t salt; cook 15 minutes.

4. Meanwhile, prepare turnip fritters: Coarsely grate cooled turnips.
In medium-size bowl, combine grated turnips, the flour, egg, and
remaining 1/4 t each of pepper and salt. In large skillet, heat 1/4
inch oil over medium-high heat. Add heaping teaspoonfuls of fritter
mixture to skillet and fry, turning, until brown on both sides; keep
fritters warm.

5. To serve, ladle soup into serving bowls, top each with 3 fritters,
and serve.

Country Living/May/93  Scanned & fixed by DP & GG

