Title: Nan-E Barbari (Persian Flat Bread)
Categories: Breads, Asian, Middle east
Yield: 1 servings
1 pk Active dry yeast
1 1/2 ts Salt
3 tb Butter, melted
-milk
1/4 c  Warm water
5 c  All-purpose flour
3 tb Sugar
2 c  Warm water
1/4 c  Sesame seeds
Pour 1/4 cup warm water into a bowl.  Sprinkle yeast over water and
stir until dissolved.  Place 5 cups flour in a large bowl. Make well
in center. Add yeast mixture, salt, sugar, butter or margarine and 2
cups of warm water.  Gradually stir flour into liquid mixture in well
until dough is thoroughly mixed. Dough will be sticky. Turn out onto
a floured surface. Knead, adding more flour if necessary, until dough
is smooth and elastic. Place in a large greased bowl.  Turn dough to
grease all sides. Cover with a dry cloth towel.  Let stand until
doubled in bulk, about 1 hour.

Preheat oven to 350F.  Punch down dough.  Divide into 4 equal
portions. Shape each portion into a ball.  Place on a floured surface
and sprinkle with flour.  Cover with a dry cloth towel. Let rest 20
minutes. Roll out each portion of dough to a 12 6 inch oval. Place on
ungreased baking sheets.  Use the side of your thumb to make ridges 1
inch apart lengthwise on each oval. Brush with milk. Sprinkle each
oval with 1 tablespoon sesame seeds.  Let rest 15 minutes.  Bake 20
to 30 minutes or until golden brown. Remove from baking sheets and
cool on racks. Serve warm or wrap cooled bread in plastic wrap and
refrigerate.

(The ridges are typically Iranian).

Makes 4 flat breads.

VARIATIONS:

Armenian Peda Bread: After making ridges in dough, press with fingers
all over surface of dough to make the traditional surface pattern.
Continue with recipe.

Batons: Cut each oval into 12 1/2-inch strips. Brush with milk and
sprinkle with sesame seeds.  Bake 15 minutes or until golden brown.
Makes 12 batons.

Bread Rings: Shape each ball into a log. Cut log into 4 equal pieces.
Roll each piece in a 7-inch rope.  Shape into a ring, pinching ends
to seal. Place on baking sheets.  Brush with milk and sprinkle with
sesame seeds. Bake 15 minutes or until golden. Remove from baking
Date:
sheets. Makes 16 rings. From: Earl Shelsby
09-20-94 Submitted By GAIL SHIPP   On   09-09-95

