Title: NEW ENGLAND CLAMBAKE SALAD - Country Living
Categories: Salads, Fish/seafoo, Country liv, Dress/stuff
Yield: 4 servings
-shucked and silk removed
4    1-lb lobsters
12    Mussels, scrubbed and beards
-removed
12    Littleneck clams, scrubbed
2    Sprigs fresh basil
Lemon-Basil Dressing (recipe
-follows)
Water
1 1/4 lb Small red potatoes
1 1/4 lb Fingerling potatoes (see
-Note)
4    Ears fresh yellow corn,
1. Prepare Leinon-Basil Dressing; refrig- erate while preparing salad.

2. Fill an 8-quart saucepot with 2 1/2, inches water; heat to
boiling. Add potatoes and cook 12 to 15 minutes or until potatoes are
tender but still retain their shape. Meanwhile, cut each ear of corn
into quarters; add corn quarters to potatoes during last 2 minutes of
cooking. With slotted spoon or strainer, remove potatoes and corn to
large serving bowl or platter and set aside.

3. Drain off all but 1 inch of cooking water; reheat to boiling. Add
lobsters to pot, head first; cover and cook 10 to 12 minutes or until
bright red and one small leg pulls off easily, indicating lobster is
completely cooked. Reserving cooking water, remove lobsters to
colander; finse and set aside to drain and cool.

4. Add mussels and clams to simmering water remaining in pot; cover
and cook 3 minutes or until all shellfish have completely opened.
Drain mussels and clams very well. (Discard any that don't open.)
Arrange with potatoes and corn in large bowl or on serving platter.

5. Remove claw and tail meat from all lobsters and arrange in large
bowl with vegetables and shellfish. Garnish with basil sprigs, if
desired, and serve with Lemon-Basil Dressing.

Lemon-Basil Dressing: In food processor fitted with chopping blade or
blender, process or blend 1 1/4 C packed fresh basil leaves, 1/2 C
mayonnaise, 3 tablespoons lemon juice, 1 T olive oil, 1 clove garlic,
chopped, 1/4 teaspoon sugar, and 1/4 t ground black pepper until
smooth. Thin with 1 to 2 T water or until mixture has the consistency
of salad dressing.  Makes about 1 cup.

Note- Fingerling potatoes are a yellow-fleshed variety and are about
1 inch in diameter and 2 to 4 inches long, Their waxy texture makes
them a good choice for salads. If unavailable, any large
yellow-fleshed or smooth white-fleshed potatoes can be substituted.
If using large potatoes, cut each into 2-inch pieces.

