Title: PAGLIA E FIENO (STRAW AND HAY WITH FRESH TOMATO SAUCE)-CL
Categories: Country liv, Pasta/rice, Main dish
Yield: 8 servings
1/4 ts Salt
1/4 ts Hot red-pepper sauce
2 tb Packed, thinly sliced
-fresh basil leaves
1 pk (8-oz) smoked mozzarella,
-cut into cubes (opt.)
Fresh basil sprigs
2 lb Ripe plum tomatoes
1 lg Sweet yellow pepper
1 lg Sweet green pepper
1 md Onion
1 pk (8-oz) spaghetti
1 pk (8-oz) spinach spaghetti
2 tb Olive oil
8    Garlic cloves, sliced
1. In 2-quart saucepan, heat 3 inches water to boiling. In two
batches, dip tomatoes into boiling water, then immediately plunge
into bowl of cold water. Peel and halve tomatoes. Remove seeds into a
strainer placed over a small bowl. With spoon, press any pulp around
seeds into bowl; discard seeds.

2. In food processor fitted with chopping blade, process half the
tomatoes until pureed. Stir puree into pulp and juice in small bowl.
Coarsely chop remaining plum tomatoes.

3. Halve peppers; remove and discard seeds and stem. Slice peppers
into 1/2-inch strips; cut strips in half crosswise. Peel onion and
cut in half lengthwise, then cut into slices crosswise.

4. Cook spaghetti and spinach spaghetti together following package
directions.

5. Meanwhile, in large skillet, heat 1 tablespoon oil over medium
heat. Add yellow and green peppers, onion, and garlic. Cook, stirring
constantly, 2 to 4 minutes or until onion begins to brown. Stir in
chopped tomatoes and tomato puree; reduce heat to low; cover and
Simmer sauce 5 minutes. Uncover sauce; stir in salt, pepper sauce,
and sliced basil; simmer 2 to 3 minutes longer or until sauce
thickens slightly.

6. Drain spaghetti very well and place in large serving bowl. Toss
with remaining 1 T  oil. Top with sauce and cheese, if desired; toss
until well combined. Garnish with basil sprigs.

Nutritional information per serving without mozzarella-protein: 5
grams; fat: 4 grams; carbohydrate: 30 grams; fiber: 4 grams; sodium:
79 milligram cholesterol: 0; calories: 171.

Country Living/August/93  Scanned & fixed by DP & GG

