Title: Party Hints
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 servings
No Ingredients Found
~ Cheese and fruit tasting is an easy, conversation-making way to
entertain friends before dinner. Seasonal varieties of fruit include
peaches, nectarines, sweet cherries, figs, grapes, apricots,
pineapple,

strawberries, plums and melons.  Or try fruits such as papaya and
mangoes. Dried fruits such as prunes and raisins also team nicely
with cheese and fresh fruits. - Some cheese and fruit combinations:
Cheddar, Provolone and Camembert with pineapple, grapes, pears and
walnuts. Brie, Monterey Jack and Feta with tangerines, strawberries
and dried prunes. Colby, Gjetost, Emmenthaler and Roquefort with
apricots, pineapple and plums. - Remember, if cooking the cheese for
your appetizers, that excessive heat and prolonged cookign turns it
stringy and leathery.  When making a sauce, stir in the cheese
towards the end of cooking time and just until totally melted. - To
keep egg yolks from crumbling when slicing hard boiled eggs, wet the
knife before each cut. - The pointed end of a beer can opener make an
excellent tool for deveining shrimp. - Out of gingerale?? Mix equal
parts of Coke and 7-up. - Use styrofoam egg cartons as trays when you
need extra ice cubes for parties. - If the carbonation fizzes out of
your champagne, add on eraisin to the bottle. The raisin won't affect
the taste but it's raw sugar will start the bubbling up again. -
Christmas starter, dinner or breakfast.  Serve Cranberry juice topped
with lime sherbet. - You can use frozen dough to make flaky crusts
for appetizers.  Thaw, cut into desired shapes, put in filling, brush
with butter and bake 10-15 minutes at 375F  Fillings can be chopped
up chicken, roast beef or any cooked seafood, or any cooked
vegetables such as mushrooms, boccoli, cauliflower. - For instant
white sauce, blend together 1 cup soft butter and 1 cup flour. Spread
in an ice cube tray.  Chill well.  Cut into 16 cubes before storing
in a plastic bag in the freezer.  For medium thick sauce, drop 1 cube
into 1 cup of milk and heat slowly, stirring as it thickens. -Store
cartons of cottage cheese, yogurt and sour cream upside down. They
will keep twice as long. - Try a new spice for your appetizers in
place of salt. Blend together 2-1/2 tsp each of paprika, dry mustard,
garlic powder, 5 tsp onion powder, 1/2 tsp ground black pepper, and
1/4 tsp celery seed.  Put all in a shaker and pass up the salt.
Origin: Cooking with Love, compiled by Baptist Church in Oregon.
Shared by: Sharon Stevens, Aug/95.

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   08-30-95

