Title: POMEGRANATE-GLAZED DUCKLING ON DRIED-FRUIT COUSCOUS - Cou
Categories: Country liv, Main dish, Poultry
Yield: 4 servings
2    8-oz pomegranates, juiced
-(2/3 C juice)
3 tb Sugar
Dried-Fruit Couscous (recipe
-follows)
1/4 c  Dry red wine
2 tb Cornstarch
Fresh mint sprigs (opt.)
1    5-lb duckling, thawed if
-frozen
3 c  Water
1 md Onion, quartered
1 lg Carrot, peeled and halved
3/4 ts Salt
1    Bay leaf
1/4 c  Strawberry or red-currant
-jelly
1. Remove giblets and neck from duckling. Remove and discard excess
fat from inside body cavity. Cut off and discard excess neck skin.
Rinse duckling, giblets, and neck in cold water and pat dry with
paper towels. Cut off and reserve first 2 joints of the wings,
leaving only the third. To cut duckling into quarters, using poultry
shears, cut duckling lengthwise in half through the breastbone and
continue cutting along one side of the backbone; cut duckling halves
in half crosswise.

2. Coat bottom of 5-quart kettle or Dutch oven with nonstick vegetable
cooking spray. Add giblets, neck, and reserved wing tips to kettle
and cook until well browned. Add duckling quarters, water, onion,
carrot, 1/2 t salt, and the bay leaf. Cover and heat to boiling over
high heat. Reduce heat to low and simmer, covered, until duckling is
fork-tender- about 1 hour. (If preparing ahead, remove duckling from
kettle, cool, wrap, and refrigerate. Strain cooking liquid,
discarding fat and cooked particles. Refrigerate liquid, or duck
stock.)

3. Just before roasting duckling, prepare pomegranate glaze: In
1-quart saucepan, heat jelly until melted. Stir in pomegranate juice
and sugar and heat to boiling over high heat. Boil mixture 5 minutes;
remove from heat and set aside.

4. Heat oven to 450'F. Remove duckling from kettle and place, skin
side up, on rack in roasting pan. (If duck breasts have curled up
after boiling, remove their breast bones so they will be flat.) Roast
duckling 15 minutes.

5. Meanwhile, pour duck stock through large strainer into bowl,
discarding cooked particles. Remove excess fat from stock. Reserve 1
C stock for the sauce and 2 C stock for Dried-Fruit Couscous; re-
frigerate remainder for another use.

6. Brush duckling with some glaze and roast 5 minutes; roast duckling
10 more minutes or until well browned, brushing 3 more times with
glaze. Prepare Dried Fruit Couscous; keep warm. Set duckling quarters
aside.

7. Prepare sauce: In cup, combine wine and cornstarch until smooth.
Stir reserved 1 C stock and remaining 1/4 t salt into glaze remaining
in saucepan. Heat to boiling and stir in cornstarch mixture. Cook,
stirring constantly, until thickened. Pour sauce into serving bowl.

8. Spoon Dried-Fruit Couscous onto serving plate. Arrange duckling on
couscous. Garnish with mint, if desired. Serve duckling and couscous
with sauce.

Dried-Fruit Couscous: In 3-quart saucepan, heat 2 C duck stock or
water, 1/3 C sliced pitted dates, 1/3 C diced dried rigs or pitted
prunes, 1 tablespoon butter, and 1/4 t salt to boiling. Stir in 1 1/3
C couscous and remove saucepan from heat. Cover and set aside 5
minutes. Fluff couscous with fork before serving.

Country Living/Oct/94 Scanned & edited by Di Pahl & <gg>

