Title: PRESS-MOLDED GARDENER RABBIT BUTTER COOKIE - House Beauti
Categories: House beaut, Cake/cookie, Holiday
Yield: 8 big cookie
MMMMM------------------------FOR COOKIES-----------------------------
4 1/4 c  Flour
Pinch of salt
Vegetable oil
Ceramic rabbit press mold
1 c  Butter, room temperature
1 1/4 c  Sugar
1 lg Egg
1 1/2 ts Vanilla extract
MMMMM-------------------------FOR GLAZE------------------------------
Liquid food coloring
1 c  Confectioners'sugar
3 tb Water
In a large bowl cream butter and sugar with a wooden spoon until well
blended. Beat in the egg and vanilla extract.

In a separate bowl, mix together 4 C flour and salt, and add it
slowly to the creamed mixture in 3 parts. Do not overmix. When all
the flour is incorporated, pat the dough into a disc shape, wrap it
in double plastic and refrigerate for 5 to 6 hours or overnight.
Refrigerate rabbit mold.

Prepare mold: Very lightly brush mold with oil over all the inside
surfaces, being sure to reach all the crevices and indentations.
Clean away any excess oil with a dry paper towel, Lightly sprinkle or
sift flour over mold, tipping mold back and forth until it is evenly
coated. Hold mold upside down and tap lightly against a surface to
remove any excess flour. Re-flour mold before making each cookie, but
do not re-oil it.

Prepare dough for mold: Break off a piece of chilled dough large
enough to fit into the mold. (Leave remaining dough in refrigerator.)
Knead dough in your hand 2 or 3 times to smooth out the wrinkles.
Press it quickly into the mold while dough is still cold and slightly
stiff When mold is completely filled, press down on dough all over to
remove air spaces and form an evenly thick cookie. Carefully press
any dough extending out over the edges back inside the form. The
cookie should not be any thicker than the mold; use a large knife to
trim dough flush with the edge of the mold.

Unmold cookie: Rap the edge of the form repeatedly against a wood
board, rotating mold at the same time. When cookie is loosened all
over, tap or gently peel it out onto a baking sheet, arranging
cookies at least 2 inches apart. If dough sticks to the mold,
carefully loosen with the point of a paring knife.

Bake cookies: Bake in a preheated 350' oven for 8 to 11 minutes.
Remove pan from oven and leave cookies on the sheet for a few minutes
until they are sturdy enough to handle. Using a wide spatula,
transfer cookies to wire racks and let stand until cooled completely.
Cookies can be eaten plain or glazed. Makes about 8 molded cookies.

Glaze cookies: In a small bowl mix confectioners' sugar with water.
Divide glaze into small individual bowls and tint each portion with
desired food colorings. Use a toothpick to add color sparingly.

Use different-size paintbrushes to paint cookie areas. Cookies can be
brushed with a single glaze or painted in greater detail with desired
colors.

Garden Rabbit Ceramic Cookie mold with recipe booklet and instructions
$13.95-for stores: Hill designs, Inc. (M) 77 Regional Dr., Concord, NJ
03301; 603 226-1997

House Beautiful/April/94  Scanned & fixed by DP & GG

