Title: Preserving Equipment
Categories: Can/preserv, Information
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM----------------BLENDER AND/OR FOOD PROCESSO---------------------
Puree food.
CANNER: A large deep kettle with a rack or false bottom that keeps
jars off the bottom of the pan.  A lid is included.  Holds 7 pints or
7 quarts. CONE SHAPED FOOD MILL: Use to separate pulp from puree.  It
will also hold a jelly bag for draining juices from fruit. FOOD
GRINDER: Use to grind fruit rinds for marmalades, or vegetable for
relishes so that they don't become too mushy. JAR TONGS: To lift hot
jars by their necks. JARS: A half pint refers to a 1 cup jar.  A pint
refers to a 2 cups jar. A quart refers to a 4 cup jar.  New metric
jars, 500ml (just over 2 cups) and 1 litre are now on the market.
LABELS: Use to identify the contents and to date each jar. LARGE POT
OR PRESERVING PAN: Aluminium or stainless steel pots are suitbable to
use and should be large enough to hold four times the volume to be
cooked.  Enamel pots are not recommended as they get very hot and
cause food to scorch.  The pan must be large enough to allow for the
huge expansion when cooking jelly at a full rolling boil.  It should
also be wide enough to allow for rapid evaporation of liquid when
boiling down jams, chutneys, etc. LIDS: The snap lids are the best
for sealing jars as you know very soon whether or not each jar is
sealed. Wipe rims clean. As the contents of the jar cool, a vacuum
forms ensuring a good seal. To secure lids, follow instructions that
come with the lids. SCALE: A small kitchen scale is a useful item.
it should be able to weigh up to 5 or 6 pounds of food. SPICE BAG: A
double layer cheesecloth bag can be used for whole spices. A solid
cotton bag should be used if spice mixxture contains seeds, so they
won't go through the cloth. SPOONS: Use long handled spoons for deep
pot stirring and slotted spoons for removing food from hot liquid.
TONGS: To lift lids from hot water. UNBLEACHED COTTON AND
CHEESECLOTH: To make jelly bags and spice bags. WIDE MOUTH METAL
CANNING FUNNEL: A big hlep for filling jars.  it fits inside the neck
of the jar and keeps the jar rims clean. Origin: Preserves, by Jean
Pare. Shared by: Sharon Stevens, Aug/95.

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   08-23-95

