Title: Quick Tips-October 1995
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 info
No ingredients found
Making Manageable Deviled Eggs

As finger food, deviled eggs are slippery, awkward to grasp, and a
bit too big for the mouth. Here's a way to make them both easier to
serve and more attractive.

Start by using the smallest eggs you can find. After boiling and
peeling, slice off a nickel-sized piece of egg from each end to make
them stable. Halve the eggs crosswise, not lengthwise. When filled,
the eggs are small enough to eat gracefully.

Grating Hard Cheeses

Grating hard cheeses with a hand-held grater is efficient, but it
often creates a mess on the counter. Try this to make the process
neater.

Before you begin grating, wrap a piece of plastic wrap around the
bottom of the grater and secure it with a rubber bank. When you grate
the cheese, it is conveniently caught inside the grater.

Removing leaves from Cabbage

Use a sharp paring knife to cut around the core at the base of the
cabbage. Remove the core and grasp each individual cabbage leaf at
its base, rather than at the leaf's outer edge. Gently lift the
cabbage leaf from the cabbage.

Drying Large Quantities of Greens

Place washed greens in a zippered pillowcase cover or net mesh bag.
Place the pillowcase or mesh bag in the washing machine on the spin
cycle. When the cycle is done, the greens will be thoroughly dried.

Mess-Free Piping

Here's a no-mess, no-fuss way to fill and refill your pastry bag.

Place the filling into a large plastic storage bag. Twist the top end
of the bag closed and snip a small hole in the bottom. Place the
filled plastic bag, trimmed end first, into a pastry bag fitted with
the desired tip. Pipe until you have used up the filling. Throw the
shriveled plastic bag away and replace it, if desired, with a new bag
filled with piping mixture.

Cooling Sushi Rice

Quick cooling leaves a nice sheen on sushi rice and also prevents it
from overcooking, but traditional hand fanning takes a lot of effort.
Use an electric fan to cool the rice after cooking and dressing it
with rice vinegar.

Forming Gnocchi

Use a butter paddle to give the gnocchi the desired ridged shape.
Alternatively, use an unused hair pick. Because hair picks are made of
plastic, dough tends not to stick to them. And because their teeth
are so long, you will get nice, deep, even grooves with any size of
gnocchi.

Pouring Boiling WAter into a Pan in the Oven

Putting boiling water into a pan in the oven when baking bread helps
achieve the desired crust. However, this can lead to scalding or
burning yourself if you aren't careful. Try using a copper watering
can with long spout to solve this problem., This method also works
when adding water to a bain-marie.

Separating Fat from Pan Drippings

Pour all the liquid from the roasting pan into a glass measuring cup,
then carefully slip a transparent bulb baster beneath   the clear
layer of fat and pull the amber juices into the baster.

Cook's Illustrated October 1995
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   08-23-95

