Title: RASPBERRY-CHOCOLATE BARS - House Beautiful
Categories: House beaut, Holiday, Cake/cookie
Yield: 3 dozen
1 tb Kirsch or orange juice
1/2 c  Red raspberry jelly
2 oz Bittersweet or semisweet
-chocolate
1/2 oz Unsweetened chocolate
-(or for a sweeter taste
-omit unsweetened chocolate
-and substitute another 1/2
-oz bittersweet chocolate)
1/4 c  Shelled whole hazelnuts
1/4 c  Slivered blanched almonds
2 1/2 c  All-purpose flour
1/2 ts Baking powder
1/4 ts Salt
8 tb (1 stick) unsalted butter,
-slightly softened
1/3 c  Plus 2 T sugar
3 lg Eggs
In a shallow baking pan in a preheated 325'F oven, toast hazelnuts 16
to 18 minutes, or until hulls begin to loosen and nuts are slightly
colored and fragrant. Remove from oven and set aside to cool. When
nuts are cool enough to handle, remove hulls by vigorously rubbing a
handful at a time between your palms or in a clean dish towel. (Some
skin may remain on hazelnuts, but they should be free of hull.)

Spread the almonds in a separate baking dish and toast in a preheated
325'F, oven 5 minutes. Remove from oven and cool completely. Combine
hazelnuts and almonds and chop moderately fine.

In a bowl sift together flour, baking powder and salt. Set aside.

In a large bowl beat butter and sugar together until fluffy. Add 2 of
the eggs and the kirsch, and beat until well blended. Stir in half of
the dry ingredients and 1/3 C of the chopped nuts. (Reserve remaining
nuts to decorate cookies.) Stir in remaining dry ingredients and mix
until dough begins to hold together.

Divide dough into thirds and place each third on a large sheet of
waxed paper. Using your hands, roll each dough section into a log 11
inches long. Transfer logs to greased baking sheet, spacing them as
far apart from one another as possible. Use the side of your hand to
form a deep, trough, about 1 1/2 inches wide, down the center. (Be
sure the trough has a rim all the way around it to keep jelly from
running.) Place remaining egg in a small bowl and beat with 1 T water
until well combined. Brush top and sides of each log with egg mixture.

Bake in the center pf a preheated 325'F oven 9 minutes. Remove from
oven. Lightly brush logs again with egg mixture. Spoon about 2 1/2 T
of the jelly evenly along the indentation of each log; lightly
sprinkle logs with some chopped nuts, reserving a few for decoration.
Return logs to oven and bake 11 to 13 minutes longer, or until
browned and the jelly is bubbly. Remove from the oven and let stand
15 minutes. Transfer to wire racks set over waxed paper.

In top of a double boiler, combine chocolates and shortening and stir
until smooth. Remove from heat. Drizzle chocolate over logs and let
stand until completely cooled. Transfer logs to cutting board, and
using a long, sharp knife, slice each log crosswise, on the diagonal,
into 12 or 13 slices. Store in an airtight container up to 4 days, or
freeze logs whole up to 1 month, then thaw and slice before serving.
Makes about 3 dozen 3-inch-long bars.

House Beautiful Holidays 1993 Scanned & fixed by Di and Gary

