Title: Roast Pork Loin with Tropical Fruit
Categories: Meats
Yield: 6 servings
6    Cloves
3 1/2 lb Boneless pork loin, trimmed
1/3 c  Chopped peeled pitted mango
1/3 c  Chopped peeled papaya
1 tb Golden brown sugar
1 tb Vegetable oil
4 c  Dry sherry
1    Cinnamon stick, halved
2 tb Lemon juice
1 1/2 ts Grated lemon peel
1/2 c  Chopped pitted prunes
1/2 c  Chopped dried apricots
12    Black peppercorns
Combine 2 cups sherry, cinnamon stick, lemon juice and peel in medium
saucepan over medium-high heat. Simmer 2 minutes. Add prunes and
apricots, Simmer until fruits are tender and mixture thickens
slightly, about 20 minutes.

Combine 2 cups sherry, peppercorns and cloves in small saucepan over
medium heat. Simmer 2 minutes. Remove from heat; cool marinade to room
temperature. Using sharp knife, make lengthwise cut down center of
pork, cutting 3/4 of the way through. Open like a book. Sprinkle cut
side with some of the onion. Close pork. Place in 13x9x2-inch glass
baking dish. Sprinkle with remaining onion. Pour marinade over. Cover
pork and fruit separately; chill overnight.

Preheat oven to 375F. Drain any liquid from fruit mixture; reserve
liquid, discarding cinnamon stick. Stir mango, papaya and sugar into
fruit mixture. Discard pork marinade; pat pork dry. Open pork like a
book. Season inside with salt and pepper. Spoon 2/3 cup fruit mixture
down center of pork; reserve remaining fruit mixture. Fold pork over,
enclosing filling. Tie pork in several places with kitchen string to
keep filling in place. Season with salt and pepper.

Heat oil in heavy large Dutch oven over medium-high heat. Add pork
and cook until brown, about 5 minutes per side. Transfer to large
roasting pan. Roast until thermometer inserted into center of pork
register 160F., about 1 hours. Place pork on platter, reserve pan
juices. Tent pork with aluminum foil and let stand for 20 minutes.

Mix reserved liquid from fruit, remaining fruit and reserved pan
juices in heavy small saucepan. Bring to simmer. Slice pork; serve
with fruit sauce.

Bon Apptit August 1995
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   08-18-95

