Title: ROAST BEEF WITH ONIONS AND YORKSHIRE PUDDING - Country Li
Categories: Country liv, Holiday, Main dish, Meats
Yield: 6 servings
-onions, peeled
3    Large eggs
1 1/2 c  Milk
1 1/2 c  Unsifted all-purpose flour
Gravy (recipe follows)
Fresh rosemary sprigs
-(opt.)
1    5-lb beef standing rib roast
3/4 ts Salt
1/2 ts Finely chopped fresh
-rosemary or 1/4 t dried
-rosemary
1/8 ts Ground black pepper
1 1/2 lb Small white or yellow
1. Heat oven to 325'F. Place roast, bone side down, in a 13- by 9-inch
baking pan. Sprinkle top with 1/4 t salt, 1/4 teaspoon fresh or 1/8 t
dried rosemary and the pepper. Roast 45 minutes.

2. Meanwhile, in 2-quart saucepan, combine onions and enough water to
cover and heat to boiling. Cook until just tender-about 15 minutes.
Drain well and set aside.

3. Remove beef from oven. Increase oven temperature to 375'F. Line
shallow 13-by 9-inch roasting pan with aluminum foil, allowing
several inches of foil to extend over both short ends. Grease bottom
of foil-covered pan with 2 T beef fat from roast drippings.

4. In medium bowl, with wire whisk, beat eggs, milk, flour, and
remaining 1/2 teaspoon salt until smooth batter forms. Place beef in
center of foil-lined roasting pan; insert meat thermometer into beef,
being careful not to rest thermometer tip on bone. Set aside baking
pan and remaining beef drippings for use in Step 5 and to make gravy.
Pour batter around beef and return to oven. Roast 30 to 40 minutes or
until beef reaches an internal temperature of 120' to 125'F for rare,
130' to 140'F for medium-rare, or 145' to 150'F for medium, and
Yorkshire pud- ding is puffed and golden brown.

5. Meanwhile, roast the onions: In 9-inch square baking pan, combine
onions and 1 T fat from reserved beef drippings. Place in oven and
roast with the beef until lightly browned-about 30 minutes.
Meanwhile, prepare Gravy.

6. To serve, using forks, lift beef from Yorkshire pudding to a
plate. By grasping foil that extends over edge of pan, lift pudding
from roasting pan onto serving tray. With spatula or knife, loosen
pudding from foil and discard foil. Return beef to center of pudding;
spoon roasted onions around beef. Sprinkle with re maining chopped
rosemary and garnish with fresh rosemary sprigs, if desired. Or keep
pudding and beef separate: Cut pudding into squares and slice beef;
arrange on set ving platter with onions. Serve with gravy.

Gravy: Skim off and discard all remaining fat from beef drippings in
baking pan. In baking pan, with wire whisk, combine 1 1O 1/2-oz can
condensed beef broth, undiluted, 1 C dry white wine, 1/2 C water, and
1/4 C unsifted all-purpose flour until smooth. Place baking pan over
low heat and cook, stirring to loosen browned-on bits, until gravy
thickens. Cook 2 minutes longer. Strain gravy into 1 1/2-quart
saucepan and keep warm over very low heat until ready to serve-no
more than 15 minutes.

Country Living/Dec/93  Scanned and fixed by DP and GG

