Title: ROLLED SPRING SALAD WITH PROSCIUTTO - Country Living
Categories: Salads, Country liv
Yield: 6 servings
-chicory)
2    Plum tomatoes, seeded and
-cut in thin strips
1    Small sweet yellow pepper,
Seeded and cut in thin
-strips
6    Fresh basil sprigs
Fresh chives
2 tb Olive oil
24    Red pearl onions (substitute
-white, if necessary)
1 tb Balsamic vinegar
1/4 ts Salt
3/4 lb Thinly sliced prosciutto
9 c  Mixed salad greens (we
-used arugula, red-leaf
-lettuce, radicchio, and
1. In large skillet, heat oil over medium heat. Add onions and sautd,
stirring occasionally, 10 to 15 minutes or until onions are just
tender. Remove from heat; add vinegar and salt, stirring to coat
onions with mixture. Set aside.

2. To make each salad roll, form a 6- inch square of prosciutto by
overlapping slightly 1/6 of the prosciutto slices, begin- ning with
the long edge of a prosciutto slice placed horizontally in front of
you. About 2 inches from the edge of the square nearest you, spread 1
1/2 C salad greens in a 2-inch-wide strip parallel to bottom,
allowing the largest and leafiest greens to extend to the right or
left edge of square by at least 2 inches. Top salad greens with 1/6
of the tomato and yellow pepper strips, placing them lengthwise in
center of salad strip.

3. Lift bottom prosciutto edge over salad strip and roll up prosciutto
square firmly to enclose salad, allowing extended greens to protrude
from one side. Repeat to make 5 more rolls with remaining prosciutto,
salad greens, tomato, and yellow pepper. (Wrap and refrigerate if not
serving immediately.)

4. To serve, cut each roll crosswise in half. On individual serving
plates, place the prosciutto half with protruding greens on its cut
end so it resembles a blossom of greens on a "stalk" of prosciutto.
Add a basil sprig and several chives to the "blossom" of greens.

5. Cut remaining halves of salad rolls crosswise into 3 equal
sections. Place 3 sections and 4 of the reserved onions on each plate
beside "stalk" and serve im- mediately.

Country Living/May/93  Scanned & fixed by DP & GG

