Title: Rosca De Reyes (Mexican Kings' Bread Ring)
Categories: Breads, Tex/mexican
Yield: 3 servings
5 md Eggs
4 c  To 4 1/2 cups flour
2 c  Candied fruits
OR
1 c  EACH candied fruits and nuts
2/3 c  Milk, scalded
1/3 c  Sugar
1 ts Salt
1/2 c  Soft butter
2    Cakes yeast, dissolved in:
2 tb Warm water
"In Mexico, Twelfth Night, the Twelfth day after Christmas, is always
a festive occasion.  This bread, also called Three Kings' Bread, is a
must. A small china doll is always placed in the dough before baking,
and whoever gets the doll must give a party on Candlemas Day (Feb.
2)."

Pour the scalded milk over the sugar, salt, and butter.  Stir to melt
the butter.  When cooled add the dissolved yeast.  Beat in the eggs
and then the flour, using enough to make a soft but not sticky dough.
Knead lightly and then roll the dough out on a floured board.  Spread
the candied fruits or fruits and nuts over the dough.  Fold the dough
over and work the fruits and nuts into the dough.  Place in a large
bowl, brush with butter, cover, and let rise until doubled.  Now turn
the dough out onto a floured board and shape into a long roll.  Pinch
the ends together to form a rind and carefully place on a buttered
cookie sheet or in a large buttered ring mold.  Cover and let dough
rise until almost doubled. Bake in a 375 F. oven 30 to 45 minutes, or
until done. Cool the loaves and frost with a powdered-sugar frosting.
Decorate with candied fruit and nuts. Note: If desired, increase milk
to 1 cup and use only 3 eggs Driekonigenbrood (Dutch Kings' Bread)
Follow above recipe, omitting the fruits and nuts. Add one whole
almond to the dough. Let the dough rise once, then punch down and
shape into a round loaf, not a ring. Place on a buttered cookie sheet
or in a round deep buttered cake pan. Let rise and bake in a 425 oven
for 10 minutes, then reduce heat to 350 and bake about 45 minutes
longer. Frost the cake and decorate with almond halves and candied
fruits.

From: A World of Breads Shared By: Pat Stockett

Submitted By PAT STOCKETT   On   09-21-95

