Title: SCOTT CAMPBELL'S GRILLED CHICKEN KABOB SALAD - Country Li
Categories: Salads, Poultry, Bbq/grill
Yield: 4 servings
1    Small red onion, finely
-chopped
1 tb Chopped fresh parsley leaves
1 tb Chopped fresh chives
1/2 ts Salt
1/4 ts Ground black @pper.
1 1/2 lb Boneless chicken breasts
6 c  Torn mixed baby greens
4    Red radishes, sliced
8    Sprigs fresh parsley
4    Slices bacon
2    Small sweet red peppers
1 md Eggplant, unpeeled and cut
-into 3/4-inch cubes
Olive Oil
Lemon Dressing (recipe
-follows)
2 c  Cooked white beans
2    Plum tomatoes, peeled,
-seeded, and finely chopped
1. Heat oven to 450'F. Stack bacon slices and, with sharp knife, cut
across into 6 equal sections to make 24 pieces. Separate bacon pieces
and place in single layer on ungreased rimmed baking sheet. Bake 5
minutes or until partially cooked. Transfer from baking sheet onto
paper towels to drain and cool. Pour off any excess fat from baking
sheet.

2. Place whole peppers and eggplant squares on same rimmed baking
sheet. Lightly brush eggplant cubes with olive oil. Roast eggplant 15
to 20 minutes or until tender; remove from baking sheet, set aside.
Turn peppers on baking sheet, and return to oven; bake 10 to 15
minutes longer or until skins blister and wrinkle. Remove peppers
from oven with tongs; place in brown paper bag and close tightly. Set
aside about 20 minutes to allow peppers to steam and cool. When
peppers are cool, peel, halve, and seed; cut into 1-inch squares.

3. Meanwhile, prepare Lemon Dressing and set aside.

4. In medium bowl, combine beans, tomatoes, onion, parsley, chives,
1/4 teaspoon salt, and 1/8 t  pepper.

5. Heat broiler or outdoor grill. Cut chicken into 1-inch pieces. To
make kabobs, on each of 8 metal skewers, alternately thread 3 pieces
each of chicken, bacon, roasted eggplant, and roasted pep- per. (If
using bamboo skewers, soak in water for at least 10 minutes before
using.) Brush kabobs with oil and season with remaining 1/4 t  salt
and 1/8 t pepper. Broil or grill, 4 inches from heat, until chicken
is just cooked through and vegetables are browned-about 3 to 5
minutes on each side.

6. In large bowl, toss greens with 2 tablespoons Lemon Dressing; toss
bean mixture with 4 T  dressing. Divide greens and bean mixture onto
4 serving plates. Place 2 kabobs on top of each salad; drizzle kabobs
with remaining dressing and garnish with radishes and parsley sprigs.

Lemon Dressing: In small bowl, combine 1/3 C extra-virgin olive oil,
1/4 C lemon juice, 1/8 t salt, and 1/8 t ground black pepper.

