Title: SESAME CHICKEN SALAD - Country Living
Categories: Country liv, Salads, Poultry
Yield: 6 servings
Salt (opt.)
1 pk (8-oz) dried Chinese wheat
-noodles
3 c  Broccoli flowerets
6    Green onions
1    Sweet red pepper, seeded and
-thinly sliced
1    Sweet yellow pepper, seeded
-and thinly sliced
1 ts Cornstarch
1/4    To 1/2 t  crushed red pepper
2 ts Black sesame seeds
3 tb Low-sodium soy sauce
3 tb Vegetable oil
2 tb Oriental sesame oil
2    Cloves garlic, finely
-chopped
1 tb Finely chopped, peeled
-fresh gingerroot
1 tb Rice-wine vinegar
1 ts Sugar
1 1/2 lb Boneless, skinless chicken
-breasts, cut into 3/4-inch
-thick strips
1. In 1-C glass measuring cup, combine soy sauce, 2 T vegetable oil,
sesame oil, garlic, gingerroot, vinegar, and sugar. Stir in enough
water to measure 1 cup. Pour half of soy-sauce mixture, over chicken
in a medium-size bowl and set aside to marinate while completing
steps 2 and 3.

2. In 5-quart kettle or saucepot, heat 3 quarts water to boiling; salt
lightly, if desired, and add noodles and broccoli flowerets. Cook 2
to 3 minutes or until noodles are al dente; drain immediately, rinse
noodles and broccoli briefly under cold water, and drain again.
Transfer noodles and broccoli to large serving bowl and set aside.

3. Coarsely chop tops of green onions and add to bowl with noodles.
Finely chop white part of green onions. In large skillet, heat
remaining T vegetable oil over medium heat. Add white part of green
onions and the red and yellow pepper slices. saute until peppers are
just tender-about 5 minutes. With slotted spoon, remove vegetables,
to bowl with noodles.

4. In same skillet, cook chicken with marinade in two batches, until
golden brown on both sides and cooked through-about 6 to 7 minutes.
Remove chicken to bowl with noodles and vegetables.

5. Add cornstarch and crushed red pepper to remaining soy-sauce
mixture; stir to dissolve cornstarch. Pour mixture into skillet and
heat to boiling, stirring constantly, until slightly thickened.
Remove from heat, add sesame seeds, and pour over noodles,
vegetables, and chicken; toss just until sauce is distributed. Serve
immediately.

Nutritional information per serving-protein- 42 grams; fat: 17 grams;
carbohydrate: 35 grams; fiber: 4 grams; sodium: 402 milligrams;
cholesterol: 95 milligrams; calories: 478.
Country Living/June/93  Scanned & fixed by DP & GG

