Title: Shrimp Soup with Crisp Tortilla Strips
Categories: Soup/stew
Yield: 4 servings
1 ts Oregano (pref Mexican)
1    Bay leaf
1 ts Salt
2 ts Olive oil
1 md Onion(s), thinly sliced
4    Garlic clove(s)
-finely chopped
2 lg Tomatoes, peeled
-seeded, finely chopped
1 tb Hot paprika
1 1/4 c  Chicken stock
1 c  Corn kernels
-fresh or frozen
Lime wedges for serving
2 md Poblano chiles
4    6" corn tortillas
-halved lengthwise
-cut crosswise
-into 1/4" thick strips
3/4 lb Medium shrimp
-shelled and deveined
-shells reserved
-shrimp cut in half
1/2 c  Dry white wine
3    Scallion
-cut in 1" pieces
1    Cilantro sprig plus
3 tb Cilantro, coarsely chopped
-for garnish
1. Roast the poblanos over a gas flame or under the broiler, turning
often, until charred all over. Peel the poblanos, discarding the
stems, ribs and seeds, and cut the chiles into thin strips.

2. Preheat the oven to 325F. Toast the tortilla strips on a baking
sheet for about 10 minutes, or until crisp.

3. In a medium nonreactive saucepan, combine the shrimp shells, 2
cups of water, the wine, scallions, cilantro sprig, oregano, bay leaf
and salt and bring to a boil over high heat. Lower the heat, cover
and simmer for 15 minutes. Strain the stock into a bowl and discard
the shells.

4. Heat the olive oil in a large nonreactive saucepan. Add the onion
and garlic and cook over moderate heat, stirring, until softened, 3-4
minutes. Add the tomatoes, raise the heat to high and cook, stirring
frequently, until the liquid is almost completely evaporated, 4-5
minutes. Stir in the paprika and cook for 30 seconds. Stir in the
shrimp stock and chicken stock.

(Can be prepared to this point, up to 1 day ahead; cover and
refrigerate the soup and poblanos separately. Store the tortilla
strips in an airtight container.)

5. Bring the soup to a boil over moderately high heat. Add the shrimp,
poblanos and corn. Lower the heat and simmer until the shrimp turn
pink, 2-3 minutes. Ladle the soup into 4 bowls. Sprinkle with the
chopped cilantro, pile the tortilla strips on top and serve with lime
wedges.

Food and Wine July 1995
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   08-18-95

