Title: Silver Queen Corn Relish
Categories: Can/preserv, Relishes, Vegetables
Yield: 1 servings
-- seeds removed, slivered
2 ts Turmeric
2 c  Cider vinegar
1 c  Sugar
1 ts Dry mustard
2 1/2 tb Pickling salt
10 c  Corn, cut from the cob*
1 c  Finely chopped celery
1 1/2 c  Finely chopped onion
2 c  Chopped green bell peppers
1 c  Chopped sweet red bell
-- peppers
1 sm Fresh red chili pepper
*Do not scrape the cob.

Combine the corn, celery, onion, bell peppers and slivered chili
pepper in a stainless steel or enameled pot.  Moisten the turmeric
with a little of the vinegar, add to the vegetables and mix.  Add the
remaining vinegar. Toss together the sugar, dry mustard and salt and
add to vegetables.

Bring to a boil and cook 15 to 18 minutes or until the relish has
thickened.  Spoon into hot, sterilized jars, seal and process
immediately (10 minutes in a boiling-water bath canner).

Yield: About 5 pints.

Note: This relish is better if it ripens a month before using.

Glenn wrote: "The Cherokee Indians, a tribe well-known in Virginia and
Kentucky, called corn's prop roots 'toes-of-the-sky-maiden.'  The
Indians believed that long, long ago, when men had only meat and
fruit to eat, there came a season of great famine.  The animals had
left the forest, and the birds had eaten all of the wild fruits
before they ripened.

"As the disconsolate Indians sat around their twilight fire, a cloud
descended from the sky and out of this cloud stepped a beautiful
maiden. She was dressed in flowing green, and her hair was like soft
yellow strands of silk.  One of the Indians sprang forward to embrace
her, but she threw up her arms and vanished.

"Where she stood there grew a tall stalk of corn.  The yellow silk
was the maiden's hair and the green leaves her flowing gown; the ears
of corn her uplifted arms and the little prop roots her bare toes. As
the Indians stared in wonder, a voice told them: 'Clear the forest
and plant the grain.'  They did."

"This winter, when you have corn relish with roast beef or your
Thanksgiving turkey, don't forget the 'sky-maiden.'"

Recipe from Camille Glenn in her 09/05/90 "Flavor to Taste" column in
"The (Louisville, KY) Courier-Journal."  Pg. C1.  Posted by Cathy
Harned. Submitted By DOROTHY FLATMAN   On   08-19-95

