Title: Sourdough Basics From Starter To Finish
Categories: Sourdough, Breads, Information
Yield: 1 servings
1    Info
"By Adriene Welch

"SOURDOUGH STARTER MAINTENANCE

"o Using and maintaining a sourdough starter is a cyclical process;
you must always replace what you remove from the crock.  If well
maintained, a sourdough culture will last a lifetime.  Each time you
take a portion of the starter for a recipe, replace that amount with
equal quantities of water and flour.  For example, if you remove 1
cup of starter to make Sourdough Country Bread, you must replace it
with 1 cup of lukewarm water (100F) and 1 cup of unbleached
all-purpose flour. Whisk these ingredients into the starter until
blended but not completely smooth. Any remaining lumps will dissolve
as the mixture ferments. Cover and leave the starter at room
temperature for at least 12 hours or overnight. The starter is now
ready to be used again, or can be refrigerated.

"o Use a 2-quart non-metal crock or bowl to store the starter.  This
way, the replenishing starter ingredients can be mixed directly in
the storage container.

"o Maintain the starter by stirring it at least once a week.  This
invigorates the yeast and expels some of the alcohol.  If you do not
use the starter every two weeks or so, refresh it by removing 1 cup
of the starter (give it to a friend or discard it), and adding 1 cup
of unbleached all-purpose flour and 1 cup of lukewarm (100F) water.
Whisk until blended. Cover and leave at room temperature 12 hours or
overnight before returning it to the refrigerator.

"o If you plan to be away or know you will not use the starter
frequently, freeze it in a sterilized, air-tight freezer container.
Thaw the starter two days before you plan on baking with it,
transferring it to a 2 quart non-metal storage container.  Refresh
the starter with 1 cup each of water and flour.  Cover and leave at
room temperature for 12 hours or overnight before using.  It's a good
idea to freeze the starter in two containers; you can keep the second
one frozen indefinitely to serve as a backup should anything happen
to the thawed starter."

Date: 19 May 94
From: Marge Clark
Submitted By GAIL SHIPP   On   09-09-95

