Title: SOUTHWEST ROAST CHICKEN - Country Living
Categories: Country liv, Main dish, Poultry
Yield: 6 servings
2 lg Red onions, thinly sliced
2 lg Yellow onions, thinly sliced
1 cn (4-oz) diced mild green
-chilies, drained
3    Cloves garlic, coarsely
-chopped
1    Fresh red or green jalapeno
-pepper, seeded and chopped
1/2 c  Dry white wine
1 sm Ripe avocado
Additional red jalapeno
-peppers for garnish (opt.)
1 pk (8-oz) cornbread stuffing
-mix
1 cn (8 3/4-oz) whole-kernel
-corn, drained
2 tb Chopped fresh cilantro or
-parsley leaves
1    5- to 6-lb roasting chicken
1/4 ts Plus 1 T chili powder
1 1/4 ts Ground cumin
1 1/4 ts Paprika
1 1/4 ts Salt
4 tb Olive oil
1    Ancho pepper (see Note)
1. Heat oven to 375'F. Prepare corn-bread stuffing mix following
package directions; stir in corn and cilantro.

2. Remove neck and giblets from chicken and freeze for use in another
recipe. Rinse and dry chicken, carefully drying inside with paper
towels. Spoon enough stuffing to fill body cavity loosely (place
remaining stuffing in small, ovenproof casserole and bake last half
hour of roasting time.) Sprinkle 1/4 t each chili powder, cumin,
paprika, and salt over skin of bird; rub in spices with 1 tablespoon
of the olive oil. Tie drumsticks together; place chicken, breast side
up, on small wire rack in large shallow roasting pan. Roast 45
minutes.

3. Meanwhile, prepare pepper and onion mixture: Break ancho pepper
into quarters; remove and discard seeds. In small bowl, cover ancho
quarters with hot water and set aside 10 minutes to soften. In large
bowl, combine red and yellow onions, green chilies, garlic, and
chopped jalapeno. Add remaining 3 T olive oil, 1 T chili powder, and
1 t each cumin, paprika, and salt; toss well to blend spices.
Coarsely chop softened ancho and stir into onion-and-spice mixture.

4. After chicken has roasted 45 minutes, add wine and enough water to
cover bottom of roasting pan. Spread onion mixture evenly around
chicken in pan. Return chicken to oven and roast 1 hour longer,
occasionally stirring onion mixture and basting chicken with pan
juices. Remove chicken from oven when juices run clear, not pink,
when thickest part of thigh is pierced with a fork. Let roast chicken
stand 15 minutes.

5. Just before serving, transfer roasted onion mixture in pan to large
serving plat- ter. Pcel, seed, and chop avocado and combine with onion
mixture. Place chicken in center of platter; garnish with red
jalapenos, if desired. Serve immediately, along with remaining
stuffing.

Note: Ancho peppers (fresh poblano peppers that have been dried) are
mildly spicy-about a 4 on a scale of 1 to 10. For less heat, try
other dried chilies such as New Mexican yellow, orange, brown, or red
peppers. To increase the spiciness of this recipe, use more red or
green jalape- no peppers.

Nutritional information per serving with stuffing- protein: 60 grams;
fat: 36 grams; carbohydrate: 30 grams; fiber: 6 grams; sodium: 963
milligrams; cholesterol: 169 milligrams; calories: 704.

Country Living/June/93  Scanned & fixed by DP & GG

