Title: SPAGHETTI SQUASH WITH ASPARAGUS TOMATO SAUCE - Country Li
Categories: Country liv, Main dish
Yield: 2 servings
1 ts Dried thyme leaves
1 ts Sugar
1/2 ts Salt
3/4 lb Asparagus, preferably
-thin stalks
2 tb Butter, softened
Fresh thyme sprigs (opt.)
1    3-lb spaghetti squash
6    Plum tomatoes
2 tb Olive oil
2/3 c  Chopped onion
4    Cloves garlic, finely
-chopped
1 cn (16-oz) whole tomatoes
1 tb Fresh OR
1. Heat oven to 350'F. With long-tined fork, pierce squash to prevent
bursting. Place squash in roasting pan and bake 1 hour. Set aside on
wire rack until cool enough to handle.

2. Meanwhile, prepare tomato sauce: In quart saucepan, heat 3 inches
water to boiling. Score bottoms of plum tomatoes with a small x and
drop into water; cook 20 to 30 seconds or until tomato skins begin to
split near incision. Remove immediately to bowl of cool water.

3. In large skillet, heat oil over medium heat. Add onion and saute 5
minutes; reduce heat to low and cook 15 minutes longer, stirring
occasionally. Add garlic and saute 3 minutes.

4. Drain canned tomatoes, reserving 1/3 C liquid. Coarsely chop canned
tomatoes and add to onion mixture with reserved liquid. Stir in thyme,
sugar, and 1/4 t  salt. Peel, seed, and coarsely chop plum tomatoes
and add to skillet. Heat mixture just to boiling over medium heat.
Reduce heat to low; cover and cook 10 minutes, stirring occasionally.

5. Trim off bottom ends of asparagus to remove any tough fibrous
parts. Cut asparagus spears into 1 -inch pieces and add to tomato
mixture. Cook tomato and asparagus mixture, uncovered, 5 to 7 minutes
or until asparagus is crisp-tender.

6. Cut warm spaghetti squash in half crosswise on a diagonal; remove
and discard seeds from both halves. Trim both uncut ends of squash
halves so they stand upright on serving plate. With fork, "comb" the
squash flesh from both halves so it pulls off in long strands. Toss
flesh from each half with 1 T butter and half of remaining 1/4 t
salt. Top squash with some of tomato and asparagus sauce; garnish
with fresh thyme sprigs, if desired, and serve. Pass remaining sauce.

Nutrition information per serving protein: 14 grams; fat: 28 grams;
carbohydrate: 66 grams: fiber: 23 grams; sodium: 859 milligrams;
choles- terol: 31 milligrams; calories: 530.

Country Living/May/94 Scanned & fixed by DP & GG

