Title: SPICED PEAR AND RUM RISOTTO - Country Living
Categories: Country liv, Desserts, Fruit
Yield: 8 servings
-quartered, and cored
1 c  Arborio rice
2 tb Butter
1/4 c  Dark rum
1/8 ts Salt
8    Sprigs fresh mint
1 qt Rum-raisin ice cream
4 c  Water
1/3 c  Sugar
4    4-inch cinnamon sticks
1/4 ts Whole cloves
1/4 ts Pink or black peppercorns
-(opt.)
2    Bartlett pears, peeled,
1. About 1 hour before serving, in 2 quart saucepan, combine 1 1/2 C
water, the sugar, cinnamon sticks, cloves, and peppercorns, if
desired. Heat to boiling over medium heat; add pears, return to
boiling, and cook over low heat until pears are just tender-10 to 15
minutes depending on their ripeness.

2. With slotted spoon, transfer pears to plate and set aside to cool.
Reserve poaching liquid.

3. Meanwhile, in heavy 3-quart saucepan, heat remaining 2 1/2 C water
to boiling over high heat; carefully pour water into 1-quart glass
measuring cup or heat-proof pitcher.

4. Heat same saucepan until dry over medium heat. Add rice and 1 T
butter. Cook, stirring constantly, until butter melts and rice looks
opaque but not browned. Gradually pour in about half of hot water and
cook, stirring constantly, until all water has been absorbed-about 10
minutes. Add remaining water, half at a time, stirring constantly and
waiting until all water has been absorbed before adding more-about 10
minutes in all.

5. Remove spices from reserved poaching liquid and reserve cinnamon
sticks for garnish, if desired. Add rum, salt, and half of poaching
liquid to rice; cook, stirring, until all liquid has been absorbed.
Repeat with remaining poaching liquid.

6. Cut pears into 1/2-inch pieces. Add pears and remaining butter to
rice mixture; stir until butter melts. Divide risotto among 8 dessert
bowls. Garnish with mint sprigs. If desired, break or cut reserved
cinnamon sticks in half and insert into risotto for garnish. Serve
immediately with ice cream.

Country Living/November/1994 Scanned & edited by Di Pahl & <gg>

