Title: Spicy Apple and Vegetable Couscous
Categories: Vegetarian, Nuts/grains, African
Yield: 4 servings
1    Star Anise
1 md Fennel Bulb
2    Courgettes
3 1/2 oz Broad Beans
14 1/2 oz Chickpeas
2    Eating Apples
1 tb Tomato Puree
1 1/4 c  Vegetable Stock
1    Red Pepper
2 tb Olive Oil
1    Onion
2    Garlic Cloves
1 ts Ground Cumin
1 ts Ground Coriander
1/2 ts Tumeric
1/2 ts Crushed Chillis
MMMMM--------------------------COUSCOUS-------------------------------
7/8 oz Butter
Seasoning
Fresh Coriander
9 11/16 oz Couscous
1 tb Olive Oil
1 pn Salt
NB: the butter is optional: use it if you aren't a vegan, don't if
you are or want a lower-fat meal. It doesn't make much difference to
the taste. Personally I never add it to couscous.

Preparation: 15 minutes Cooking: 20 minutes Nutritional Information
per serving:

487 calories 8g fibre (high) 64g carbohydrates (medium) 21g fat
(medium) 5g saturated fat (medium) 15g protein (medium) 0.92g salt
(medium) no added sugar

Preparation:

deseed the pepper and cut into quarters, chop the onion, thinly slice
the garlic cloves, slice the fennel bulb, cut the courgettes into
chunks, drain the can of chickpeas, peel and core the apples and cut
into thick slices.

1. Preheat the grill to hot and cook the pepper quarters, skin side up
until charred. Leave to cool slightly and remove the skin then cut
the flesh into thick strips and set aside.

2. Heat the oil in a large pan, add the onion and garlic and cook
until
golden. Stir in the cumin, coriander, turmeric, chillies and star
anise
and cook, stirring constantly, for 1 minute. Add the fennel,
courgettes (zucchini for the Americans), broad beans, chickpeas and
apples to the pan. Mix the tomato paste with the stock and pour
over
the vegetables. Season to taste. Bring to the boil, then simmer,
covered, for 15 minutes or until the vegetables are just tender.
Add
the pepper strips towards the end of cooking time to heat through.

3. Cook the couscous. Bring 500 ml of water to the boil in a large
pan (if cooking for 4; scale down if cooking for less, up if
cooking for more) then add the oil and salt. Remove from the heat
and stir in the couscous. Leave for 2 minutes for the grains to
swell then stir with a fork to separate the grains. If using the
butter add at this stage, then stir.

4. Serve the vegetables on a bed of couscous and garnish with fresh
herbs if using.
Submitted By KAZ LANGRIDGE   On   08-18-95

