Title: STIR-FRIED CHICKEN SALAD SZECHWAN
Categories: Salads, Poultry, Chinese, Asian
Yield: 6 servings
Salt
1 tb Vegetable oil
5    Green onions
2 1/2 tb Chili oil
2 ts Sugar
1 1/2 ts Szechwan peppercorns; ***
6 tb Vegetable oil
3 tb Vegetable oil
1 1/4 lb Chinese egg noodles; **
3    Large red bell peppers
3 tb White wine vinegar
2 1/2 tb Sesame oil
2 ts Salt
3/4 ts Fresh ground pepper
3    Chicken breast halves; *
* Skin and bone chicken breast halves and cut into 3/8" julienne
slices. ** Fresh or dried Chinese egg noodles. ***Szechwan
peppercorns ground in mortar and strained. Pat chicken dry. Heat 3
Tbsp. vegetable oil in wok or heavy large skillet over medium-high
heat until very hot but not smoking. Add chicken and stir-fry just
until opaque, about 3 minutes. Set chicken aside. Bring large amount
of salted water to rapid boil over high heat. Add noodles and cook
until firm but tender to the bite. Drain well. Transfer to large
bowl. Add 1 Tbsp. vegetable oil and toss gently to coat. Broil
peppers 6" from heat source, turning occasionally, until all sides
are blackened. Transfer peppers to plastic bag and seal tightly. Set
aside 10 minutes to steam. Slip charred skins off peppers and
discard. Cut out stem and seeds. Rinse peppers if necessary to remove
any seeds; pat dry. Cut into 1/4" julienne. Combine onions, vinegar,
hot chili oil, sesame oil, sugar, salt, Szechwan pappercorns and
freshly ground pepper in medium bowl. Heat remaining 6 Tbsp.
vegetable oil in small saucepan until very hot but not smoking. Pour
hot oil over onion mixture in thin steady stream, stirring
constantly. Set aside for 15 minutes (hot oil will release flavor of
spices). Reserve some of red bell pepper for garnish; add remaining
red papper to noodles. Add green onion mixture and chicken and toss
gently using fork or chopsticks. Arrange reserved red pepper strips
over top. Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate. Bring to room
temperature. Adjust seasoning and serve.

From: "Cooking With Bon Appetite" Series: Poultry.

