Title: STUFFED APPLE DUMPLINGS - Country Living
Categories: Desserts, Fruit, Country liv
Yield: 4 servings
3/4 c  Sugar
1 1/2 ts Ground cinnamon
4    Large Rome apples (also try
-Golden Delicious or other
-baking apple)
1    Large egg beaten with 1 t
-water
1 1/2 c  Unsifted all-purpose flour
1/2 c  (1 stick) butter or
-margarine, cut into pieces
2 tb Cream cheese, cut into
-pieces
2 tb Sour cream
1 1/4 c  Water
1 c  Chopped dried apricots
1. To prepare pastry, place flour in large bowl; with pastry blender
or 2 knives, cut butter and cream cheese into flour until mixture
resembles coarse crumbs. Stir in sour cream until well combined. Stir
in 2 to 3 T water, 1 T at a time, until mixture holds together. Form
pastry into a ball; wrap and refrigerate 30 minutes.

2. Meanwhile, prepare apricot filling: In 2-quart saucepan, combine
the remaining water with apricots, 1/2 C  sugar, and 1 t  cinnamon.
Heat to boiling over high heat; reduce heat to medium and simmer
mixture until liquid is almost gone and apricots are glazed.

3. Core and peel apples. In small bowl, combine remaining 1/4 C
sugar and 1/2 t  cinnamon. Coat outside and cavities of apples with
sugar mixture. Stuff some apricot mixture into apple cavities,
leaving 1/4 inch unstuffed on each end. Reserve remaining apricot
mixture.

4. Heat oven to 350'F. Divide pastry into 4 pieces. On lightly floured
surface, roll out pastry pieces into 6-inch rounds. Place 1 apple on
center of each round. Lift pastry edge around apple to encase without
stretching pastry; trim off any excess pastry and reserve. If
desired, shape reserved pastry trimmings into apple stems and press
onto tops of pastry-covered apples. Place apple dumplings on baking
sheet; brush with egg mixture.

5. Bake dumplings 40 to 45 minutes or until golden, brushing with egg
mixture halfway through. Cool dumplings on baking sheet on wire rack
30 minutes. To serve, place warm dumplings on serving plates; spoon
any extra apricot mixture on the side.

Country Living/November/91  Scanned & fixed by DP and GG

