Title: STUFFED SHELLS IN CREAMY TOMATO SAUCE - Country Living
Categories: Country liv, Pasta/rice, Main dish
Yield: 6 servings
1/2 ts Salt
1 pk (1-lb) large pasta shells
2    10-oz pk fresh spinach
1 pk 3-oz cream cheese, softened
1/4 c  Chopped fresh parsley leaves
1/4 c  Finely grated Parmesan
-cheese
1/2 c  Heavy cream
1 tb Olive oil
3 lg (about l1/2 lb) onions,
-chopped
5    Cloves garlic, chopped
1 cn 28-oz crushed tomatoes
1 tb Fresh or 1 t dried thyme
-leaves
1 ts Sugar
1. In large skillet, heat oil over medium heat; add onions and cook
until soft and golden-about 7 minutes. Add garlic and cook 3 minutes
longer. Transfer two-thirds of onion mixture to food processor fitted
with chopping blade or blender and set aside until step 4.

2. Add tomatoes, thyme, sugar, and 1/2 t salt to onion mixture
remaining in skillet; reduce heat to low, cover, and simmer 20
minutes.

3. Meanwhile, prepare pasta shells following package directions;
drain well and spread hot shells on baking sheet to cool.

4. To make filling for shells, stem spinach and rinse in colander. In
8-quart saucepot, cook wet spinach, covered, just until wilted. Return
spinach to colander and press to remove excess liquid. Add spinach,
cream cheese, parsley, Parmesan cheese, and remaining 1/4 t  salt to
reserved onion mixture in food processor or blender. Process or blend
mixture until very smooth.

5. Remove tomato mixture from heat and stir in heavy cream to make
sauce; ladle half of sauce into 2 1/2-to 3-quart flame-proof
casserole. Fill pasta shells with spinach mixture (a pastry bag
fitted with large round tip is recommended for piping the spinach
mixture into pasta shells) and place filled shells in sauce. Ladle
remaining sauce into spaces between shells, then cover casserole and
cook over low heat 20 to 25 minutes or until heated through and
bubbly. Serve immediately.

Nutritional information per serving@rotein: 17 grams; fat: 17 grams;
carbohydrate: 74 grams; fiber: 9 grams; sodium: 584 milligrams;
cholesterol; 45 milligrams; calories: 513. lh

Country Living/August/93  Scanned & fixed by DP & GG

