Title: Sukiyaki 1
Categories: Japanese, Main dish, Meats
Yield: 1 servings
1/4 lb Fresh mushrooms; sliced
2 c  Canned or homemade beef sto
1    Fresh spinach (horenso)
1 c  Japanese soy sauce
1/4 lb Fresh snow peas; blanched
1/4 c  To 1/2 cup granulated sugar
8 oz Fresh or canned devil's ton
Sauce should be sweet
Noodles (shirataki)  or
1/4 c  Japanese rice wine (sake)
Eye of round.
2    Oz bundles dried bean threa
2 oz Suet (beef kidney fat; ask
Transparent noodles (harusa
1    Scallions; trimmen  (negi)
1    Container fresh bean curd (
2    Med onions, bermuda; peeled
4    Raw eggs
1    Oz package dried black mush
***  cooking sauce (warashit
PREPARATION:   1.  With a sharp cleaver or chief's knife, slice meat
as thinnly as possible. Cover and refrigerate until serving time. 2.
Cut scallions diagonally in 1 and 1/2 nch lengths 3. Cut onions in
half lengthwise, then slice them thinly. 4. Cover dried mushrooms
with hot tap water to re-hydrate. soak at least 30 minutes -
preferably for several hours. Cut tough stems off and discard; leave
mushrooms whole or cut in half, quarter if large. 5. Trim stems of
fresh mushrooms and wipe clean with damp paper towels. Slice 6. Wash
spinach leaves carefully and trim stems. 7. Blanch snow peas. 8. Open
and drain can or package of devil's noodles (if your using the dried
bean threads, cover them with very hot tap water and soak for 30
minutes or until plumped up.) If noodles are bound by rubber bands,
don't remove them until noodles soak. Snip into shorter lengths, then
cut bands off. 9. Drain and rinse tofu in cool water, then cube. 10.
Combine sauce ingrdients in a saucepan and heat just to dissolve
sugar. Cool and refrigerate until needed. 11. Arrange meat, suet, and
remaining ingredients except eggs and sauce in attractive piles on
the platter. Platter can be arranged ahead and tightly covered and
refrigerated, except for the onions, which should be cut at the last
minute. Meat should be kept separate until serving time because
escaping meat juices can stain other foods. 12. Break raw eggs into
small bowls at serving time. This is a two part recipe - check for
Sukiyaki 2

