Title: Sweet Onion Frittata With Balsamic Vinegar
Categories: Cheese/eggs, Main dish
Yield: 4 servings
-ground
2 tb Balsamic Vinegar
10    Eggs
3 tb Parmigiano-Reggiano --
-finely grated
2 tb Parsley -- minced
3 tb Olive Oil
8 c  Onions -- sliced
1 ts Garlic -- minced
2 ts Fresh Oregano -- minced
1 1/4 ts Kosher Salt
1/8 ts Black Pepper -- freshly
1. In a 10-inch nonstick skillet, heat 2 Tbs of the olive oil over
medium heat. Add the onions, garlic, oregano, and half the salt and
pepper. Cook 25 to 30 mins, stirring occasionally, until the onions
are tender and browned.

2. Add the balsamic vinegar and 2 Tbs water to the pan and stir well
with a wooden spoon to incorporate any browned bits. Continue cooking
to reduce the liquid and coat the onions. Remove from the heat. The
onions can be prepared up to 1 day ahead to this point and held
covered and refrigerated.

3. In a large bowl, beatthe eggs until the yolks and whites are
thoroughly combined and frothy. Season with the Parmigiano, parsley,
and the remaining salt and pepper. Whisk in the cooked onions.

4. Stir the beaten eggs into the skillet with the cooked onions and
combine well. (If the onions were prepared in advance, reheat them in
the nonstick skillet before whisking in the eggs.) Over high heat,
continue stirring with a wooden spoon or rubber spatula while
simultaneously shaking the pan back and forth over the flame. The
eggs will begin to form small curds. Continue stirring and shaking
until the eggs are set but still somewhat soft on top.

5. Loosen the frittata from the skillet with a rubber spatula and
slide it onto a large dinner plate. Cover the frittata with another
dinner plate and invert the plates. Slide the frittata back into the
skillet and continue cooking over high heat to brown the other side,
about 2 mins. The cooked frittata should be golden brown on both
sides. Carefully transfer the frittata to a large dinner plate, cut
into wedges, and serve hot or at room temperature. Serves 4 to 6.

: The Union Square Cafe Cookbook - ISBN 0-06-017013-1
Recipe By

Date: 08-23-95 (22:44) (159)
From: Dan Klepach
Fido: Cooking

