Title: TATOU MUSHROOM PIE - Country Living
Categories: Country liv, Pie/tart, Main dish, Vegetables
Yield: 6 servings
-leaves
1/2 ts Salt
1/4 ts Ground black pepper
2 tb Olive oil
1 lb Assorted white and
-cultivated wild mushrooms,
-thinly sliced
1    Large egg
1/4 c  Plus 1 T heavy cream
Pastry (recipe follows)
3/4 lb Baking potatoes
1    Small red onion, finely
-chopped
2    Cloves garlic,
-finely chopped
1 tb Chopped fresh basil leaves
1/2 ts Chopped fresh thyme leaves
1/2 ts Chopped fresh rosemary
1. Prepare Pastry. Lightly grease an 8-inch cast-iron skillet or 1
1/2-quart shallow round baking dish.

2. Make filling: Peel and thinly slice potatoes. In large skillet,
saute potatoes, onion, garlic, basil, thyme, rosemary, 1/4 t salt,
and 1/8 t pepper in 1 T oil, turning with spatula frequently, until
potatoes are lightly browned and just tender-5 to 8 minutes. Remove
to medium-size bowl,

3. In same large skillet, saute mushrooms in remaining 1 T oil just
until tender. Stir in remaining 1/4 t salt and 1/8 t pepper and set
aside.

4. Heat oven to 375'F Divide pastry into 3 equal pieces. Press 2
pieces together and shape into a ball. Between 2 sheets of waxed
paper, roll out ball of pastry to a 14-inch round. Remove top sheet
of paper from pastry. Invert pastry into skillet let- ting excess
extend over skillet edge. Remove bottom sheet of paper.

5. Carefully spoon potato mixture into pastry-lined skillet to make
an even layer about 1/4 inches thick. Top with mushrooms, pressing
with back of spoon to make an even layer about 3/4 inch thick.

6. In small bowl, with fork, beat egg until frothy. Beat in 1/4 C
cream until well blended. Pour cream mixture over pie, tilting
skillet to allow mixture to flow into spaces in mushroom and potato
layers.

7. Between paper, roll out remaining pastry to a 9-inch round, Remove
top sheet of paper from pastry. Invert pastry over mushroom filling.
Remove bottom sheet of paper. Lift edge of bottom crust over edge of
top crust. Pinch together and flute. With sharp knife, cut slit in
center of crust. Brush crust with remaining 1 tablespoon cream.

8. Place pie on a rimmed baking sheet and bake 40 to 45 minutes or
until pastry is lightly browned. Cool 10 minutes on wire rack before
cutting.

Pastry: In medium-size bowl, combine 2 1/3 C unsifted all-purpose
flour and 1/4 t  salt. With pastry blender or 2 knives, cut in 1/2 C
(1 stick) butter until mixture resembles coarse crumbs. Add 1/2 C
water and 1/2 C sour cream to flour mixture and mix lightly with fork
until pastry forms a ball. Wrap and refrigerate 30 minutes.

Country Living/Sept/93  Scanned & fixed by DP & GG

