Title: TENNESSEE WHISKEY GLAZED TURKEY - Country Living
Categories: Poultry, Main dish, Alcohol, Country liv, Holiday
Yield: 12 servings
1/2 c  Apple jelly
2 tb Tennessee whiskey
2 ts Angostura bitters
Fresh sage sprigs (opt.)
Red grapes (opt.)
Stuffed Baked Sweet Potatoes
(opt., see separate recipe)
1    12-lb fresh or thawed frozen
-turkey
Quick Onion-and-Herb
-Stuffing (recipe follows)
3 tb Butter or margarine, melted
Giblet Gravy (recipe
-follows)
1. Rinse turkey with cold water; drain well. Refrigerate neck and
giblets until ready to make broth for gravy. Prepare Quick
Onion-and-Herb Stuffing. Stuff neck cavity; skewer skin to back. Tuck
wing tips under shoulder joints.

2. Spoon remaining stuffing lightly into body cavity. If opening has
a band of skin across it, push drumsticks under it. Otherwise, tie
drumsticks securely together with string.

3. Heat oven to 325'F. In shallow, open roasting pan, or dark enamel
roaster with lid, place turkey, breast side up, on rack. Brush skin
with 1 T butter. Insert meat thermometer into center of inside thigh
muscle; do not allow thermometer to touch the bone.

4. If using roasting pan, tear off piece of heavy-duty aluminum foil
2 to 3 inches longer than the turkey. Place, tent style, over turkey.
Pinch foil lightly at legs to anchor. If using roaster, place lid on
top.

5. Roast turkey 4 1/2 to 5 hours (or 22 to 26 minutes per lb), basting
occasionally with pan drippings, until thermometcr registers 185'F or
drumstick moves easily. About 45 minutes before turkey is finished,
prepare Giblet Gravy.

6. To make Tennessee whiskey glaze, in small saucepan, melt apple
jelly over medium heat; stir in whiskey, bitters, and remaining 2 T
butter. Remove aluminum foil tent or roaster lid from turkey; brush
turkey with glaze. Continue roasting, uncovered, 15 to 20 minutes
longer or until skin is browned and shiny. Transfer turkey to large
plat- ter-let rest 15 minutes before carving. Garnish turkey platter
with sage sprigs, grapes, and Stuffed Baked Sweet Potatoes, if
desired. Serve with gravy.

Quick Onion-and-Herb Stuffing: In 6-quart saucepot, combine 1 10
1/2-oz can condensed French Onion soup, 1 C water, 1/4 C (1/2 stick)
butter, and 1 C chopped celery; heat to boiling. Remove from heat and
stir in 1 15- oz package seasoned stuffing cubes, 1 large egg, 1/2 t
dried marjoram leaves, 1/2 t dried thyme leaves, and 1/2 t dried
sage. Use to stuff turkey or transfer to covered 1 1/2-quart
casserole dish and bake at 350'F for 45 minutes.

Giblet Gravy: About 45 minutes before turkey is finished roasting, in
heavy 2-quart saucepan, saute reserved giblets and neck, 1/4 C
chopped onion, and 1/4 C chopped celery in 1 T butter until onion is
golden. Add 2 C water, 1/2 t salt, and 1/8 t  ground black pepper to
the mixture in the saucepan. Cover pan and heat to boiling; cook over
low heat until turkey is cooked. When turkey has been removed from
roasting pan, pour drippings from pan into 4-cup measuring cup.
Remove and discard fat from drippings. If necessary, add water to
juice from drippings to make 2 C; return to roasting pan. Remove neck
and giblets from broth in saucepan; measure broth and add cool water
to make 2 cups. Add 1 C broth to roasting pan; heat mixture in
roasting pan to boiling, stirring to loosen browned-on bits. With
wire whisk, stir 1/2 C unsifted all purpose flour into remaining
broth until smooth; stir into mixture in roasting pan and cook,
stirring until thickened and smooth. Remove meat from neck; chop neck
meat and giblets and stir into gravy in roasting pan. Spoon into
gravy boat and serve with turkey.

Country Living/Dec/91  Scanned & fixed by DP and GG

