Title: The Nutritional Value Of Fish
Categories: Information, Fish/seafoo
Yield: 1 servings
Text Only
The Nutritional Value of Fish

Salt-water fish are a superior source of nutrients, which are vital to
growth and good health.  Fish yield high amounts of proteins,
vitamins, minerals and polyunsaturated fats.

Protein is basic to the diet.  It can be broken down into amino acids
which are essential for the growth and repair of body tissue. Whereas
some proteins are incomplete and must be supplemented with other
protein foods, fish proteins are complete.  containing all the amino
acids required by the body.  A four-ounce serving can contain from
thirty to fifty percent of the body's daily requirement of protein.

Fish are also a valuable source of vitamins, which are necessary for
the body's functions.  Fish liver oil is an exceptional source of
vitamins A and D.  Vitamin A is necessary for healthy skin and
development of bones. Vitamin D plays an important part in the body's
use of calcium, a mineral vital for sound teeth and bones.  Fat fish
in particular are a prime source of vitamin D. All fish contain
several of the B complex vitamins necessary for many of the body's
processes, especially digestion and the nervous system.  Lack of the
proper amount of vitamins can lead to vitamin deficiency diseases.

Just as fish is a source of proteins and vitamins, it is a top source
of minerals too.  The body depends on minerals for such diverse
functions as growth and repair, the maintenance of digestive juices,
and the composition of fluids in and around cells. Some of the
minerals supplied by salt-water fish are phosphorous, copper, iron,
calcium and iodine. Phosphorous and calcium aid in the development of
bones and teeth. Iron and copper are vital to the hemoglobin content
in blood, helping to prevent nutritional anemia.  Iodine is necessary
for the proper functioning of the thyroid gland.

In addition to proteins, vitamins, and minerals, fish oils contain
polyunsaturated fats.  These are essential for healthy skin, and the
normal operation of the liver and kidneys. They also can reduce the
cholesterol level in blood, decreasing the chances of heart disease.

About the Author

Adam Starchild has combined business travel with discovering the
delights of native dishes from Hawaii and Hong Kong to Russia and the
Caribbean. He is the author of The Seafood Heritage Cookbook (Cornell
Maritime Press), co-author of another seafood cookbook, and the
author of a number of food and cooking articles.
Submitted By BARRY WEINSTEIN   On   08-30-95

