Title: Thom Christopher's Wok-Sauteed Tofu and Vegetables
Categories: Vegetables, Wok
Yield: 8 servings
1 md Red pepper, julienned
1 md Green pepper, julienned
1 lb Tofu, cut into thin strips
2    Scallions, chopped
Tamari or soy sauce to taste
2 tb Sesame oil
1/4 lb Broccoli florets
12    Asparagus tips
2    Carrots, julienned
1 sm Zucchini, cut into wheels
1/4 lb Snow peas
Thom Christopher may have walked away with an Emmy for his role as
drug kingpin Carlo Hesser on ONE LIFE TO LIVE, but he says his
mother, Nancy, swept the awards when it came to talent in the
kitchen. "My mother was the most incredible Italian cook," recalls
Christopher (who was transformed into jewel expert Mortimer Bern on
the ABC show after his character Carlo was murdered). "What's always
fascinated me about my mom is that she could work and come home and
unexpectedly make meals for 20 people and upward." Which is exactly
what she did one evening in 1961 for Christopher and a group of
actors who had been rehearsing all afternoon: "Everyone said, 'What
are we going to do with a party of 24?' I called home and said, 'Mom,
I'd like to bring the company home for dinner', and she said, 'How
many?' I said, 'About 24.' By the time we got home, she had made
chicken with tomato sauce, shells in tomato sauce, stuffed braciola,
chicken soup with escarole. To this day, we all remember that awesome
meal."

Christopher's mom passed on her passion for cooking. The actor now
enjoys his own elaborate dinner parties with his wife, Judy, in their
Manhattan town house. Judy creates the entrees while Christopher
whips up the appetizers and desserts - from tuna-fish specialties to
banana trifle.

His recipe for sauteed tofu and vegetables - which can be served as an
appetizer or a side dish - reflects his cooking philosophy. "I
believe in economy in the kitchen," he says. "You can eat very nicely
without spending the kitchen sink."

Coat the cooking area of a wok or deep frying pan with sesame oil and
heat until very hot. First, saute broccoli, asparagus, and carrots
for a few minutes. Then add zucchini, snow peas, and peppers and cook
for another minute or two. Add tofu and scallions last. Saute
everything in sesame oil for 2 more minutes. Then add tamari or soy
sauce to taste and cook a little longer, until vegetables are tender
but not overcooked. Vegetables should be stirred frequently and
cooking time should not exceed 20 minutes. Submitted By ROBERT MILES
On   08-31-95

