Title: TRIPLE CHOCOLATE CREAM PIE - Country Living
Categories: Country liv, Desserts, Pie/tart, Chocolate
Yield: 10 servings
3    1-oz squares unsweetened
-chocolate, chopped
3 ts Vanilla extract
Chocolate Curls (recipe
-follows)
1/2 c  Heavy cream
2 ts Confectioners' sugar
Cookie Crust (recipe
-follows)
1 c  Half-and-half
1/2 c  Granulated sugar
1/3 c  Cornstarch
1/4 ts Salt
2 c  Milk
1. Prepare Cookie Crust.

2. Heat oven to 350'F. Lightly grease 9 inch pie plate and small
baking sheet. Between 2 sheets of floured waxed paper, roll out
cookie crust to 12-inch round. Remove top sheet of paper and invert
crust into greased pie plate. Remove remaining sheet of waxed paper.
Trim crust edge even with rim of pie plate; reserve scraps. ams;
Reroll scraps to 1/4-inch thickness and cut out as many stars as
possible (see Note). Place half of stars on baking sheet. With water,
moisten rim of crust; press remaining stars randomly onto rim of
crust. With fork, pierce bottom and all around side of crust to
prevent shrinkage. Line crust with aluminum foil and fill with
uncooked dried beans or pie weights.

3. Bake cookie crust 15 minutes; remove foil with beans and bake 8 to
10 minutes longer or until edge of crust darkens slightly. Bake stars
on baking sheet 5 minutes or until edges darken slightly. Cool crust
in pan on wire rack; remove stars from baking pan to wire rack.

4. Meanwhile, prepare chocolate filling: In small bowl, with wire
whisk, beat half and-half, granulated sugar, cornstarch, and salt
until smooth. In 2-quart saucepan, heat milk and chocolate to boiling
over medium heat, stirring occasionally. Slowly add cornstarch
mixture and return to boiling, whisking constantly. Reduce heat to
low and cook 1 minute more until thickened. Remove from heat and stir
in 2 t vanilla.

5. Immediately spoon chocolate filling into pie shell. Refrigerate at
least 4 hours. Meanwhile, prepare Chocolate Curls.

6. Just before serving, in small bowl with electric mixer on medium
speed, beat heavy cream, confectioners' sugar, and remaining 1 t
vanilla until soft peaks form.

7. Spoon whipped cream into pastry bag fitted with large star tip;
pipe 3 evenly spaced concentric circles on top of pie and a 1-inch
dot in center. Gently score top of pie into quarters. Arrange
Chocolate Curls on top of whipped cream on 2 opposite quarters,
hiding the scored lines. Place reserved stars on top of remaining 2
quarters of pie. Serve immediately or refrigerate until ready to
serve.

Cookie Crust: In small bowl, combine 1 1/4 C unsifted all purpose
flour and 1/4 C unsweetened cocoa powder. In large bowl, with
electric mixer on medium speed, beat 1/2 C (1 stick) butter,
softened, 1/2 C sugar, and 1/4 t salt until combined. Add 1 large egg
and 1/2 t vanilla extract; beat on high speed until smooth and well
blended. Reduce speed to very low. Add flour mixture; beat on very
low speed until manageable dough forms.

Chocolate Curls: Soften one 6-oz bar semisweet or bittersweet
chocolate in warm place (80' to 85'F) for several hours or microwave
on high (100%) power 10 seconds. To form curls, hold softened
chocolate in one hand; using sharp vegetable peeler, dig blade into
edge or side of chocolate and bring peeler toward you; chocolate
should come off in curls. If chocolate is too cold it will splinter;
if it is too warm, it will not curl. Place curls on oiled plate and
refrigerate.

Note: Use 1/4-inch star cookie cutter or cut pattern for 3/4-inch
star from clean cardboard. If cardboard pattern is used, place
floured pattern directly on dough and cut around pattern with sharp
knife.

Country Living/Oct/94 Scanned & edited by Di Pahl & <gg>

