Title: Ttoro ForgŠsienne
Categories: Breads, Soup/stew, Fish/seafoo, French
Yield: 8 servings
3    Stalks celery, fine chopped
1 sm Green pepper chopped
1 sm Red pepper chopped
2 lg Tomatoes, concass‚e
1 2/3 c  Dry white wine
4    Cloves garlic, finely sliced
1 1/2 qt Fish stock or water
1    Red chilli (fresh) OR
1/4 ts Cayenne
Salt & pepper
Fresh lemon juice (opt)
2 lb Mixed fish (Cod, hake, monk
-halibut, orange roughy)
3 fl Olive oil
2 lb Mussels (cooked mariniŠre)
2 md Onions, finely chopped
1 oz Flour
2 md Carrots, finely chopped
3 tb Mixed fresh herbs (parsley,
-chervil, basil, chives
-with a few leaves rosemary
-and/or sage.
Cut the fish into cubes, with fish needing longer cooking, cut
smaller. Reserve the trimmings. If you do not have any fish stock,
buy extra fish bones/heads and make some with the bones and trimmings
from the fish, a little of the wine and half the vegetables, together
with a bouquet garni.

In a large frying pan, heat half the olive oil, and add chopped
onions, celery, red & green peppers, the red chilli seeded and
sliced, the garlic and the paprika. Fry over moderate heat for about
5-10 mins until softened, but not brown.

Meanwhile, clean the mussels, and steam … la mariniŠre with chopped
shallots, a little white wine, bay, parsley and thyme. As soon as the
mussels are done, strain, reserving the liquor, and remove from
shells, spreading them on a plate to cool quickly.

Combine in a large saucepan, the fish stock, the trimmings and the
mussel cooking liquor, and cook « hour or so. Strain, allow to cool
slightly and add the wine, the cooked vegetables, the concass‚e
tomatoes and the chopped herbs. Leave aside until ready to use, when
it should be heated to boiling.

May be cooked ahead up to this point.

Season the flour with salt and pepper, and shake the fish cubes in
this to coat evenly. 15 mins before serving, heat the remaining olive
oil in a wok, or very large frying pan, and add the fish. Fry over
high heat, till lightly browned on all sides (5 mins or so). Add the
boiling stock/vegetables. cook at slow boil/simmer uncovered a
further 8 mins. Add cooked mussels. Taste. The soup should be quite
piquant, without being positively fiery. Season with cayenne if
needed, lemon juice and salt/pepper. Serve immediately. (May be
accompanied by garlic croutons). Submitted By IAN HOARE   On
09-01-95

