Title: Various Veggie Tips
Categories: Information, Vegetables
Yield: 1 servings
No Ingredients Found
~ Bake potatoes in half the usual time by letting stand in boiling
water for 15 minutes before putting them into a very hot oven. -
Overcooked potatoes can become soggy when the milk is added.
Sprinkle with dry powdered milk for the fluffiest mashed potatoes
ever. - Plant a few sprigs of dill near your tomato plants to prevent
tomato worms on your plants.

~ Exposure to direct sunlight soften tomatoes instead of ripening
them. Leave the tomatoes, stem-up, in any spot where they will be out
of direct sunlight. - Next time you are cooking cabbage, put a heel
of bread on top of the cabbage before putting the lid on the pot.
There will be NO odor. The bread has no effect on the cabbage and
should be removed after cooking. Works for broccoli and brussel
sprouts too. - A deep or rich color generally indicates highest food
value and flavor in vegetables. For example, the dark green outer
leaves of leafy vegetables have more nutruients than the lighter
colored iner ones. Also, bright orange carrots may provide more
vitamin A than paler ones. - Remember to remove the tops of carrots
before storing.  Tops drain the carrots of moisture, making them limp
and dry. - You'll shed less tears if you cut the root end of the
onion off last, or freeze or refrigerate before chopping. - Beans are
nutritional super stars.  Packed with protein, low in fat and
cholesterol, beans are one of the best sources of complex
carbohydrates and dietary fiber. Surprisinly, beans contain more
fiber per serving than most other vegetables, fruits, grains or
cereals.  A diet high in soluble fiber has been linked to such
virtues as lowereing cholesterol, maintaining blood sugar levels or
body energy, and delaying feeling hungry. - Lettuce leaves absorb
fat.  Place a few into the pot and watch the fat cling to them. -
Ripen green bananas or green tomatoes by wrapping them in a wet dish
towel and placing them in a paper sack. - A squirt of lemon in the
water when cooking califlower will keep the cauliflower from
discoloring. - Cook carrots with potatoes and then mash them all
together.  This makes the potatoes a slight orange color and produces
an entirely new flavor. - Never immerse mushrooms in water when
cleaning.  They will absorb too much liquid.  For prime mushrooms,
buy only theose with closed caps. The gills should not be showing.
Origin: Cooking with Love, compiled by Baptist Church in Oregon.
Shared by: Sharon Stevens, Aug/95.

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   08-30-95

