Title: Vegetable Couscous Pie
Categories: Main dish, Vegetables, Side dish
Yield: 6 servings
2 lg Eggs
1/4 ts Salt
1/4 ts Ground black pepper
1/4 c  Chopped fresh basil
x  Basil Tomato Sauce (recipe
-follows)
x  Fresh basil sprigs (opt.)
x  Fresh baby carrots (opt.)
2 lg Onions
2 tb Butter
1/2 lb Mushrooms; halves
3 ea Cloves garlic; chopped
1 lb Carrots; peeled
2 sm Zucchini; ends trimmed off
1 c  Couscous; uncooked
1/2 lb Jarlsberg cheese; cut into
-large chunks (see Note)
1. Cut onions into wedges that will fit through the feed tube of the
food processor.  In food processor fitted with coarse shredding
blade, shred the onions.  In large skillet, melt butter over medium
heat. Add onions and saute 1 minute.  Cover and cook 5 minutes.

2. Meanwhile, in same processor fitted with shredding blade, shred
mushrooms.  Add mushrooms and garlic to onions and saute until
mushrooms soften slightly.  Cover and cook 5 minutes.

3.  Meanwhile, cut carrots and zucchini into pieces that will fit the
food processor's feed tube.  Shred the carrots and add to
onion-mushroom mixture.  Cover and cook 5 minutes or until all
vegetables are wilted.

4.  Stir couscous into vegetables; cover and remove from heat.  Let
stand 10 to 15 minutes or until couscous absorbs all the liquid and
the grains have softened, stirring twice while it stands.

5.  Meanwhile, in same processor, coarsely shred cheese.  In small
bowl, with fork, beat eggs, salt and pepper.  Generously grease a
9-inch pie plate.  (If reheating pie later in a microwave, use a
microwave-safe pie plate.)  Heat oven to 350 degrees F.

6.  Uncover vegetable couscous and fluff with fork to allow mixture
to cool enough so that the eggs do not cook when they are stirred in.
Stir seasoned eggs into couscous until well blended.  Reserve 1/4 cup
cheese; stir remaining cheese and the basil into couscous.

7.  Spoon vegetable couscous into greased pie plate.  Cover with
aluminum foil.  Bake 30 minutes.  Meanwhile, prepare Basil Tomato
Sauce.

8.  Uncover pie and bake 15 mintues longer or unti lightly browned
around the rim.  Sprinkle center of pie with reserved cheese.  For
easier cutting, let stand 10 minutes before serving.  (Pie can be
made ahead, cooled, covered and refrigerated.  To reheat, cover with
aluminum foil and bake at 350 degrees F. 35 to 40 mintues.  Or, cover
with plastic wrap and microwave on high 15 minutes, rotating plate
every 5 minutes.)

9.  To serve, cut pie into wedges and place on serving plates.  Top
each with some Basil Tomato Sauce and garnish with a basil sprig and
baby carrot, if desired.

BASIL TOMATO SAUCE:  Drain one 28-ounce can plum tomatoes packed in
tomato juice and reserve the juice.  Cut tomatoes in half, squeeze
out and discard seeds; coarsely chop tomato pulp.  In 2-quart
saucepan, heat 1 tablespoon olive oil over medium heat.  Add 1 small
onion, chopped, and saute 1 minute.  Stir in chopped tomatoes, 8
large fresh basil leaves, 1 teaspoon sugar (or to taste); 1/4
teaspoon salt (or to taste); and 1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper.
Cover and heat to boiling. Reduce heat to low and simmer 10 minutes.
Remove basil leaves from tomato mixture. Pour mixture into blender or
food processor fitted with chopping blade. Blend until smooth and
return to saucepan; stir in 1/3 to 1/2 cup reserved juice until
mixture is spoonable. Reheat just before serving.

Note:  Substitute Jarlsberg Lite cheese to reduce calories per
serving to 384, fat to 14 grams, sodium to 614 milligrams and
cholesterol to 100 milligrams.

Per serving with Basil Tomato Sauce:  PROTEIN 18g; FAT 18g;
CARBOHYDRATE 44g; FIBER 7g; SODIUM 659mg; CHOLESTEROL 103mg; CALORIES
406, VITAMIN A 2,293 retinol equivalents.

From:  COUNTRY LIVING magazine, 8/94.

Meal-Master format provided by iRis gRayson.
Submitted By IRIS GRAYSON   On   09-09-95

