Title: WALNUT SQUASH CAKE - Country Living
Categories: Country liv, Desserts, Cake/cookie
Yield: 12 servings
4    Large eggs
1 ts Vanilla extract
2 c  Coarsely grated peeled
-butternut or other winter
-squash
Cream Cheese Frosting
-(recipe follows)
Candied Orange Peel
-(recipe follows; opt.)
1/2 c  Chopped walnuts
2 1/2 c  Unsifted all-purpose flour
1 1/2 ts Baking powder
1 ts Baking soda
1 ts Ground cinnamon
1/4 ts Salt
1/4 ts Ground nutmeg
1 1/2 c  Confectioners' sugar
1/2 c  (1 stick) butter or
-margarine, softened
1/4 c  Vegetable oil
1/4 c  Fresh orange juice
1. Grease and flour two 9-inch-round baking pans. In medium-size bowl,
combine flour, baking powder, baking soda, cinnamon, salt, and
nutmeg; set aside.

2. Heat oven to 350'F. In large bowl, with electric mixer on medium
speed, beat confectioners' sugar and butter until smooth. Beat in
oil, orange juice, eggs, and vanilla until combined. Reduce mixer
speed to low and gradually beat in flour mixture until batter is
smooth. Stir in squash until well mixed. Divide batter evenly between
prepared pans.

3. Bake cake layers 30 minutes or until cake tester inserted in center
comes out clean. Cool layers in pans on wire racks 5 minutes. Remove
cakes from pans; cool completely on racks.

4. Prepare Cream Cheese Frosting and Candied Orange Peel, if desired.

5. To assemble cake, place one cake layer on serving plate. Spread
top with 1/ 2 C frosting. Place other layer on top. Spread top and
side of cake with remaining frosting. Press walnuts onto lower half
on side of cake. Garnish top edge with candied peel, if desired.
Refrigerate cake until ready to serve.

Cream Cheese Frosting: In medium-size bowl, with electric mixer on low
speed, beat 1 8-oz package cream cheese, at room temperature, until
fluffy. Gradually beat in 1 I-lb package confectioners' sugar and 1 t
vanilla extract, until smooth.

Candied Orange Peel: With vegetable peeler, remove orange part of
peel from 1 large navel orange. Cut orange peel into 1/8-inch-wide
julienne strips. Drop strips into small saucepan of boiling water and
blanch 1 minute. Drain strips in strainer. Repeat to blanch orange
strips again. Drain and return strips to saucepan. With fork, stir in
1 T  sugar and heat until sugar dissolves and coats the peel.

Country Living/Sept/93  Scanned & fixed by DP & GG

