Title: Wild Rice and Red Onion Soup
Categories: Soup/stew, Pasta/rice, Vegetables
Yield: 4 servings
1 ts Crushed dried rosemary
1/2 ts Freshly ground black pepper
1/2 c  Dry white wine
1 qt Chicken stock
1 c  Parmesan cheese; freshly
-grated
3/4 c  Raw wild rice
1 ts Salt
2 lb Red onions
3 tb Olive oil
1 tb Sugar
2 tb Unsalted butter
1.   Wash the wild rice by placing it in a 1-quart saucepan filled
with water.  Stir the rice around in the water until the liquid
darkens. Drain the rice through a sieve.
Rinse the saucepan and add 1-1/2 cups of water and 1/2 teaspoon of
the salt.  Bring to a boil and add the rice.  Turn the heat to low,
cover the saucepan, and simmer for 30 to 35 minutes until the liquid
has evaporated.
Check the rice several times while it is cooking and fluff it with
a fork.  Set aside, still covered, until it is time to add it to the
soup.

2.   Peel and slice the onions.  They should be about 1/8" thick.
Slice them on the bias to avoid rings.

3.  In a 2-quart saucepan, heat the olive oil.  Add the onions and the
remaining 1/2 teaspoon of salt.  Toss to coat the onions with the oil.
Cover, and over low heat, "sweat" the onions for 20 minutes.  During
this time, the onions will become limp and give off their liquid.

4.  Remove the cover and turn the heat to medium.  Add the sugar,
butter, rosemary, and black pepper.  Toss to mix.  Continue cooking
uncovered foir another 15 minutes or so until the onions are very
lightly browned. Begin warming your soup plates.

5.  Increase the heat and add the wine.  Bring to a full simmer and
cook until the wine has almost evaporated.  Stir to make sure that
the onions do not burn.

6.  Add the chicken stock, cover, and simmer for 10 minutes.  Just
before serving, add the wild rice and cook only long enough to heat
the rice.

7.  Serve the soup in heated soup plates, sprinkling each serving
with 2 tablespoons of the Parmesan cheese.

_The Country Gourmet Cookbook_  Sherrill & Gil Roth, 1981 Workman
Typos by Jeff Pruett
Publishing Company  ISBN 0-89480-188-0
Received by post from Gail & Dale Shipp / Baltimore Cooking Echo
Picnic '95 Submitted By JEFF PRUETT   On   09-24-95

