Title: Zucchini Dill Pickles
Categories: Herbs/spice, Vegetables, Can/preserv, Relishes, Companion
Yield: 4 pints
1 tb Mustard seed
4    Dill heads; OR...
1/4 c  -Dill seed
4    Garlic cloves (or more)
-- sliced thin
1 bn Dill leaves
-- large stems removed
2 lb Small zucchini
2 md Onions
1/4 c  Kosher salt
Ice water
2 c  Cider vinegar
2 c  Water
1 tb Sugar
Small zucchini (about 1 inch in diameter) make the best pickles, but
over-grown ones can make satisfactory pickles if they are halved,
seeded, then cut into half-rings.  I prefer to use the dill heads
before they are completely mature and dry because of their soft
flavor and appearance.

Trim the ends from the zucchini and slice about 3/8 inch thick.
Halve the onions lengthwise, then slice them crosswise about 1/4 inch
thick.  Layer the vegetables in a glass, ceramic, or stainless steel
bowl, sprinkling each layer with salt.  Cover with ice water.  Place
a plate on top of the vegetables and a weight on the plate.  Let
stand for 2 hours.

Drain the zucchini and onions and rinse well.  Drain again while you
prepare the pickling liquid.

Mix the vinegar, water, sugar, and mustard in a large nonreactive pan.
Bring the mixture to a boil, then simmer for 5 minutes.

Remove the pan from the heat, add the dill heads or seed and the
zucchini and onions, and cover.  Let the mixture stand for 2 hours,
tossing occasionally.

Meanwhile, fill a canning kettle with enough water to cover pint jars
and bring the water to a boil.  Sterilize four pint jars and scald
four lids and rings.

Bring the zucchini mixture to a boil in its pan and stir in the
garlic and dill leaves.  Ladle into hot, sterilized pint jars.  Cover
with lids and rings and process in the boiling water bath according
to manufacturer's directions for 10 minutes at sea level.  Store the
pickles for a week at room temperature before using.  If any jars do
not seal, store them in the refrigerator and use the contents within
2 weeks.

NOTE: If you live 1000-3000 feet above sea level, increase the length
of time in the boiling water bath by 5 minutes.  Increase time by 10
minutes at 3000-6000 feet, 15 minutes at 6000-8000 feet, and 20
minutes above 8000 feet.

* Source: The Herb Companion - August/September 1993 * Typed for you
by Karen Mintzias

