Title: Almond Chocolate Fruitcake Loaf
Categories: Chocolate, Cake/cookie, Fruit, Nuts/grains
Yield: 1 servings
6 oz Semisweet chocolate
Chips, minatures
1/2 c  Semisweet chocolate
Chips
1 c  Cherry-pineapple mix,
Asst.colors, candied
-- chopped
1 1/2 c  Pecans; chopped
1 c  Walnuts; coarsely
-chopped
1 c  Hazelnuts
4 oz Stick butter; softened
7 oz Almond paste
1/2 c  Sugar
3 tb Dark rum or amber
1 ts Vanilla extract
1 tb Orange zest; grated
1 tb Lemon zest; grated
3    Eggs
1/2 c  Flour
1/2 ts Baking powder
Recipe by: 365 Great Chocolate Desserts - ISBN 0-06-016537-5
Preparation Time: 1:40

1. Preheat oven to 325°F. Grease a 4 1/2 x 12 1/2-inch long loaf pan
and line completely with wax paper; grease the paper.

2. Spread out hazelnuts on a small baking sheet. Toast in oven for 10
to 12 mins, or until nuts are lightly browned and dark skins are
cracked. Rub warm nuts in a terrycloth towel to remove as much skin
as possible.

3. In a large bowl, beat together butter, almonds paste, and sugar
with an electric mixer on medium speed until well blended. Beat in
rum, vanilla, orange and lemon zests. Add eggs, one at a time,
beating well after each addition. Add flour and baking powder and
beat until combined. Stir in chocolate chips, candied fruits, pecans
and walnuts until well mixed. Scrape batter into prepared loaf pan.

4. Bake about 1 hour, or until cake springs back when touched lightly
and top is golden. Let cake cool in pan 30 to 40 mins, then unmold
cake by lifting with wax paper onto a wire rack and let cool
completely. Carefully peel off wax paper. Wrap cake in plastic wrap
and then in aluminum foil. Refrigerate at least 2 days or up to 2
weeks before serving.

NOTE: Loaf is best cut into 1/2-inch or thicker slices for serving.
Cut each slice in half or thirds. Loaf also freezes well. For ease in
handling and serving, cut loaf into 2 or 3 horizontal pieces and wrap
each piece individually.

NOTES : This fruitcake, prepared with an almond paste cake base, is
studded with chocolate chips, 3 different kinds of nuts, and
just
a few candied fruits for color. It tastes a lot like chocolate
covered marzipan. Be sure to refrigerate it for a couple of
days
prior to serving for easier slicing.

