Title: Butter Busters Shopping Tips 3/3
Categories: Information, Pickles
Yield: 1 text file
MMMMM-----------------------NO INGREDIENTS----------------------------
BUTTER BUDS A SMART SOLUTION

If you love the flavor of butter, but want to cut the fat from your
diet, Butter Buds can be a great substitution. You can use it in
place of butter, margarine, and oil in most of your recipes. Although
margarine and oil may be low in cholesterol, they are not low in fat.
a tablespoon of butter or margarine contains 100 calories adn 11.5
grams fo fat. A tablespoon of oil clontains 120 calories and 13.6
grams of fat. There are about 50 calories in a tablespoon of diet
margarine, and the fat gram counts range from 6 to 10.5. Butter Buds
contain 6 calories and 0 fat grams! Butter Buds also contain about
25% less sodium than regular butter or margarine. A tablespoon of
Butter Buds contains 110 milligrams of sodium, whereas the same
anount of butter or margarine contains 138 milligrams of sodium.

Butter Buds are 100% matural butter flavor granules. They are sold in
boxes that contain eight packets. Each packet, when added to hot
water, is equivalent to a half cup of melted butter, margarine or
oil. Butter Buds also comes in a jar that can be used to sprinkle on
popcorn, vegetables, or anything that needs a butter flavoring. Mot
onlly can the liquid Butter Buds be used in your recipes for baking
and cooking, they can also be brushed over corn on the cob or your
homemade breads. I've used liquid butter Buds in making salad
dressings, sauces, appetizers, soups, main dishes, breads, cookies,
and all kinds of desserts. I would strongly advise you to keep plenty
of boxes of Butter Buds on hand in your pantry. It is a real staple
for helping you to cook low fat.

MARGARINE VERSUS BUTTER

You may have always thought margarine was a better and more healthy
choice than butter. It is true the saturated fat content in one
tablespoon of margarine is 18 fat calories compared to butter at 65
fat calories. However, both margarine and butter are 100% fat and
both have 100 calories per tablespoon. So, although margarine may be
more heart healthy, it is just as fattening as butter and should be
limited or omitted when possible.

Butter Busters by Pam Mycoskie ISBN 0-446-67040-5 Entered by Carolyn
Shaw 2-95
Submitted By CAROLYN SHAW   On   02-15-95

