Title: Butter Busters Reataurant Guide  1/2 ^
Categories: Information, Pickles
Yield: 1 text file
MMMMM-----------------------NO INGREDIENTS----------------------------
BE PARTICULAR WHERE YOU EAT

If possible, YOU pick the restaurant. This way you wil knolw they
serve the foods you can eat. If someone else is choosing the
restaurant, call ahead and ask what is on the menu. If nothing suits
your low fat plan, ask the chef if he can prepare somethig low fat or
perhaps make a low fat sauce in place of the regular sauce for you.

DON'T STARVE ALL DAY TO SAVE UP FOR YOUR BIG MEAL OUT

Eat low fat all day, but do eat. Otherwise, you will arrive so hungry
and eat so fast, that you will overeat before you realize you are
full. In fact, it is a good idea to have a lowfat snack before you go
out to eat. this will help you concentrate on the good company and
coversation, rather than what you are eating and how fast you can eat
it.

WHEN IN DOUBT, ASK

Don't be shy. Always ask the waitperson what you want to know. Ask
how the food is prepared. Is it fried? Is it baked? Is it broiled? Is
the food prepared with butter or oil? If so, what kind and how much?
Ask what is in the sauce or soup. Always ask enough questions to help
you make wise choices.

ALWAYS ON THE SIDE

Always ask for the butter, salad dressings, and sauces to be served
on the side. This puts you in control. You can regulate how much you
want to use. You wil probably notice how good the food really tastes
when the flavor isn't covered up with a lot of high fat sauce. You
can always bring small packets of non fat dressing with you in your
purse or pocket. This is becoming more and more acceptable in the
restaurant world. So many people are watching their fat intake these
days that the ones eating regular salad dressing seem to be in the
minority.

YOU CAN TAKE IT WITH YOU

Don't feel compeled to eat everything on your plate just because you
paid for it. If half the entree is all you feel like eating, take the
rest home for another meal or share it with your eating partner. Send
back the butter served with the bread if you can't stay away from it.
Better yet, bring your own low or non fat butter substitute with you.
At first, you might feel funny pulling non fat additives out of your
purse, but you will be laughing when the weight is falling off.

SHARE THE SWEETS

If you are dying to taste the cheesecake but don't want to blow your
fat budget for the day, share with a friend. Order one dessert for
the table with plenty of forks. This way you can taste it, so you
won't feel deprived. Better yet, skip the dessert and go out for a
non fat frozen yogurt agter your meal. this puts you in control.

IF YOU EAT OUT MORE THAN ONCE A WEEK, IT IS NO LONGER A SPECIAL TREAT
THAT WARRANTS PIGGING OUT. EAT AS YOU DO AT HOME MAKING WISE LOW FAT
CHOICES!!!!

Butter Busters by Pam Mycoskie ISBN -446-67040-5 Entered by Carolyn
Shaw 2-95
Submitted By CAROLYN SHAW   On   02-15-95

