Title: Butter Busters Microwave Information ^
Categories: Information, Pickles
Yield: 1 text file
MMMMM-----------------------NO INGREDIENTS----------------------------
You will probably want to stick to your oven for baking, but some
foods actually turn out better when cooked in the microwave.
Rice: Cooking rice in the microwave is a one step process if you have
an oven that allows you to program two cooking powers and times. Stir
one cup of rice into two cups of room temperature water; cover, set
on hig for five minutes, then medium (50%) for 12. No waiting for the
water to bolil. No stirring.

Oatmeal-in-a-bowl: Even those who don't "cook" in the microwave have
discovered this wonder. A single serving of one minute oats is ready
in about 1 1/2 minutes. No boiling, no stirring and no messy pot to
clean.

Corn on the cob: Corn cooked in the microwave oven has a moist,
steamed texture. If you like this texture, the easy cooking and
cleaning technique will sway you to the microwave oven. You don't
have to husk the corn before it is cooked; in fact, the husks add an
earthy flavor to the kernels while serving as a natural cover. After
cooking, (4 ears need 10-12 minutes on high), the sillky tassels slip
off with one easy tug. Try pouring a little skim milk over the corn
before you cook it. Also sprinkle a packet or two of Swe n Low on
top. It will make the corn sweet and delecious.

Cauliflower: Nature gave this healthful cruciferous vegetable a round
shape and light weight texture that is ideal for the microwave oven.
Microwaves hit a whole head on all sides so it cooks evenly.
Cauliflower's not-too-dense texture also contributes to a perfectly
cooked vegetable. A whole head, covered in plastic wrap, takes 6-8
minutes on high power. This method saves time and nutrietns.

Sweet Potatoes: The issue of cooking regular white potatoes in the
microwave is more debatable because the texture is not as fine as a
regular oven-baked potato and the skin is not as crisp. Sweet
potatoes are a different story. Most people don't eat the sklin of a
sweet potato, so the soft texture is not a problem, and the moist,
heavy interior benefits from the steaming effect of the microwave.
One potato cooked on high takes about 5 minutes, four medium potatoes
12-14 minutes. When you consider the time saved, it's best to cook
sweet potatoes in the microwave.

Whole Beets: You won't have any more pots of red water if you use the
microwave oven to dook beets. The beets round shape is ideal for even
cooking in the microwave oven. One pound of 2" diameter beets need
only 14-18 minutes on high power.

Mixed Vegetable Plate: An assortment of fresh vegetables can be piled
on a lplate and cooked a tthe same time. In order to obtain even
cooking results, cut the vegetables in similar shapes and put slow
cooking vegetables such as carrots and potatoes on the outside and
fast cooking, such as asparagus, green peppers and onions on the
inside.

Stuffed Green Peppers: There is no need to preboil the peppers. They
will keep their color and crisp texture when cooked in the microwave.
You do need to precook the filings to ensure the meats are thoroughly
done.

Fish: Salmon, orange roughy, haddock and other fresh or thawed fish
filets, covered and steamcooked in the microwave oven, come out
perfect, moist and tender. No dried out top from broiling and no fat
from frying are a couple of good reasons to cook fish in the
microwave. Grilling is the only real comptitor. When you consider the
time (4min per Lb in the microwave), and cleanup, the microwave seems
a wise and quick choice.

Butter Busters by Pam Mycoskie ISBN -446-67040-5 Entered by Carolyn
Shaw 2-95
Submitted By CAROLYN SHAW   On   02-15-95

