Title: Butter Busters Restaurant Guide 2/2 ^
Categories: Information, Pickles
Yield: 1 text file
MMMMM-----------------------NO INGREDIENTS----------------------------
YOUR GUIDE TO EATING IN RESTAURANTS CHINESE: Don't
eat anything that is fried with a crust. Stay away from beef, pork
and duck. Order chicken or seafood dishes that are not fried. Ask the
waitperson to have your food prepared without oil or fat. You might
also ask them to cut the soy sauce if you are watching your sodium
intake. It is best to order plain rice, but the fried rice is not too
bad if you ask them to prepare it as low fat as possible. If eating
fried rice, pick the kind with chicken or seafood in it. Stay away
from rice with beef or pork. fortune cookies are ok.

ITALIAN: Stay away from veal, beef and lamb. Choose pasta dishes in a
marinara sauce. Stay away from any cream or butter sauce. Choose
chicken or seafood. Ask how the food is prepared. Ask the waitperson
to have your food prepared as lowfat as possible. Eat all the bread
you want (providing it isn't garlic bread). Try eating the bread
without butter. dip it in your marinara sauce instead. If you order
pizza, askl them to cut the cheese content in half. Order vegetable
toppings versus meat or sausage on your pizza. Stay away from most
appetizers in Italian restaurants with the exception of a shrimp or
crab cocktail. Skip the cheesecake. Order sherbert if they offer it
on the menu, or go out for a nonfat yogurt instead.

MEXICAN: Stay away from the chips. If you simply cannot do without
them, limit yourself to ten. Put them on a little plate and eat them
very slowly, savoring every bite to make them last. Instead order
soft flour and corn tortillas as soon as you are seated. Eat these
with hot sauce, not butter, while you are waiting for your meal. Two
corn tortillas are only 1 fat gram. Flour tortillas can be anywhere
from 1-5 grams apiece depending on their size and how they are made.
Fewer of these wil fill you up for a lot less fat grams. I usually
stay away from beans unless you can pin them down as to how they were
made. If they aren't cooked with lard, you might go ahead and have a
portion. the charro beans are usually lowfat. The most lowfat thing
on the menu to order is chicken fajitas. Order them with lettuce and
tomato on the side instead of the usuall sour cream, guacamole and
cheese. Order double rice and beans. They are a great source of
protein if prepared lowfat. You can choose any other chicken or
seafood dish as lolng as it is not in a butter or cream sauce. Ask
your waitperson how the food is prepared if you have any doubt. Stay
away from the sopapillas. Stay away from cream soups and egg dishes.
Eat all the hot sauce you wish but stay away from the chile con
queso. OLE!

BAR-B-Q: Stay away from beef, pork and sausages of any kind. Order
chicken; it offers the lowest possible fat choice. You will probably
have to remove the skin yourself. Order white meat chicken when
possible. Dark meat has twice the fat content of white meat. The
beans here are usually fine. Don't eat the pork or bacon that may be
floating around in them. Ask if they have plain bread. I would,
however, stay away from the corn muffins or cornbread. Stay away from
the butter, Corn should be fine. This is when it is a good idea to
carry butter buds or maybe a packet of non fat Weight Watchers diet
ranch dressing for a baked potato. It is a good idea to keep these
non fat salad dressings handy when you go out to eat. the salad
dressing alone could blow your fat calorie budget for the day.

STEAK: Most often these restaurants have chicken and seafood
selections. Many of them are even starting to offer pasta dishes. Use
your Weight Watchers diet salad dressing on your salad, Eat the bread
without butter. Have a shrimp cocktail for an appetizer. Just because
you find yourself in a steak restaurant doesn't mean you have to eat
steak. Go out for a frozen yogurt for dessert.

CONTINENTAL: Stay away from the rack of lamb. Also stay away from the
duck, beef, pork and veal. It's a sure bet you need to skip any sauce
that is prepared in their kitchen. This restaurant can be a challenge
to even the most dkillful. there are usually seafood selections that
you can ask to be prepared lowfat. there are usually pasta dishes in
these restaurants. Just make sure they will make a red or marinara
sauce for you. Eat all the great French bread without butter. You
might go for the Ceaser salad here as your one splurge. Bypass the
dessert cart unless they ofer strawberries plain.

FAST FOOD: Most fast food restaurants now offer some kind of grilled
chicken sandwich. This can be a wise choice providing the skin has
been removed. Don't ruin a chicken sandwich with high fat mayonnaise.
Use kechup or BBQ sauce instead. Most of the fast food fish
restaurants now offer a baked or broiled fish selection. Use lemon
instead of drawn butter over your fish and you will be making a wise
choice. a lot of FF places offer a salad bar or baked potatoes. Avoid
the luncheon meats, bacon, egg, pasta salads, cole slaw and cottage
cheese on most salad bars. Watch out for croutons and fried onion
rings. Try to refrain from nuts and seeds.

Butter Busters by Pam Mycoskie ISBN 0-446-67040-5 Entered by Carolyn
Shaw 2-95
Submitted By CAROLYN SHAW   On   02-15-95

