Title: Butter Busters Healthy Tips ^
Categories: Information, Pickles
Yield: 1 text file
MMMMM-----------------------NO INGREDIENTS----------------------------
Be aware of what you are putting in your mouth.

Try to eat a variety of foods, so you don't become bored.

Drink as much water as possible.

Modify everything you eat to low fat whenever possible.

Read labels on everything before you buy or eat it.

Eat more fruits, vegetables and grains. They will fil you up.

Eat foods high in fat on a limited basis.

Omit regular butter and margarine from your diet.

Try eating more rice, potatoes and pasta in place of high fat meat
dishes.

Eat a varitey of breads and cereals.

Try eating more slowly, enjoying your foods and how it tastes.

Don't eat every bite of food on your plate. Leave something.

Don't even keep high fat foods in your house, car or office.

Remove your plate when you are finished so you aren't tempted to keep
eating.

Sit down when you eat a meal. There is no way you can eat slowly and
enjoy your meal standing up.

Don't eat what is left on the plates when you are cleaning up the
kitchen. Throw leftovers in the garbage or store immediately.

Organize your life. If you fail to lan, plan to fail!

Don't eat after 9PM if possible.

Make small changes. Don't try to change all your eating habits in one
day or even one week.

Try not to think of food so much. Try to think of it as fuel for your
engine, instead of a recreational sport.

If you are obsessed with food, get help. Call Weight Watchers,
Overeaters Anonymous, or even consult health specialists in your
community.

Engage in an aerobic activity 3-5 times a week for at least 35-45
minutes. Add weight or resistance training once or twice a week.

Eat only until you are no longer hungry, NOT UNTIL YOU ARE REALLY
FULL.

Have a positive attitude, You can do anything you really want to. You
will never be happy with others unless you can be happy with yourself.

I'm not saying you have to go about your new life style changes cold
turkey. Gradual os the key thought here. There are a number of ways to
gradually slip into, good, healthy lwfat eating habits. Make changes
in your eating pattern sllowly so they will become permanent, and you
won't have to think about what comes naturally. This is really what
we are trying to accomplish. We want this lowfat lifestyle to become
second nature to you. Reduce the food in your daily menu that
contributes the most saturated fat. Try cutting the quantities of
these foods in half. If you usually use mayonnaise on your sandwich,
try the new fat free variteies, or mustard. Focus on one meal at a
time. First try eliminating the highly saturated breakfast foods you
can do without. Once you have breakfast under control, move to your
lunch selections. Remember, substititions can be our best friends
when it comes to modifying our old favorite recipes. With small
changes over a period of time, you can succeed. If you just can't
handle lthe low or non fat cheeses, buy the strongest, sharpest
cheeses available, and you will find that a much smaller amount will
satisfy your palate. If you can't handle Smartbeat margarine or one
of the other low fat margarines, please try to cut the amount of
regular margarine you use in half. Some foods just can't be
substituted, such as peanuts or avocados. In this case, if you can't
live without them, try cutting down the serving size and frequency of
eating these foods.

Tips to help you with gradual changes:

Eat high fat foods in smaller amounts. Eat high fat foods less often.
Try to gradually eliminate high fat foods entirely. Substitute low
fat foods in place of high fat foods whenever possible.

Butter Busters by Pam Mycoskie ISBN 0-446-67040-5 Entered by Carolyn
Shaw 2-95
Submitted By CAROLYN SHAW   On   02-15-95

