Title: CHOCOLATE-PUMPKIN LAYER CAKE WITH BROWN-SUGAR FROSTING
Categories: Vegetable, Dessert, Holiday
Yield: 12 servings
2 c  Granulated sugar
4 lg Eggs, at room temperature
1 cn (16 ounces) solid-pack
-pumpkin
1/2 c  Milk
2 ts Vanilla extract
2 3/4 c  All-purpose flour
3/4 c  Cocoa powder
1 tb Pumpkin-pie spice
2 ts Baking powder
1 ts Baking soda
1 c  Butter or margarine, at room
-temperature
Timing Tip:  Can be stored at room temperature up to 5 days.

Cake

1. Heat oven to 350 degrees F. Lightly grease two 9-inch round cake
pans. Line bottoms with waxed paper. 2.CAKE: Mix flour, cocoa powder
spice, baking powder and baking soda. 3. Beat butter and granulated
sugar in a large bowl with electric mixer until pale and fluffy. Beat
in eggs one at a time until mixture looks like mayonnaise. 4. With
mixer on low speed, beat in pumpkin, milk and vanilla (mixture will
look curdled). Gradually beat in flour mixture, scraping down sides
of bowl with rubber spatula 2 or 3 times. 5. Divide batter between
prepared pans. Smooth tops. Bake 40 to 45 minutes until pick inserted
in the center comes out clean. 6. Cool in pans on wire rack 10
minutes. Run knife around cakes to loosen. Invert on wire rack,
remove pans, peel off waxed paper and let cakes cool completely. 7.
FROSTING: Put brown sugar, butter and milk in a medium-size saucepan
and bring to a gentle boil. Stir until butter melts, sugar is
disolved and mixture is smooth. 8. Using a hand-held electric mixer
gradually beat confectioners' sugar and extract into hot mixture. Or
pour hot mixture into a bowl and beat in sugar and extract with a
stand mixture. 9. Immediately place 1 cake layer upside-down on
serving plate. Spread with warm frosting (if frosting cools it will
set and a crust may form on the surface. Beat again until smooth.)
Place other layer right side up over sides and top. Cover with
plastic wrap or store in cake keeper.

Serves 12. Per serving: 824 cal, 7 g pro, 128 g car, 34 g fat, 156 mg
chol with butter, 76 mg chol with margarine, 496 mg sod.

Recipe From: Woman's Day magazine  11/26/91

