Title: Chocolate Covered Candied Cherries
Categories: Candy
Yield: 6 servings
-pieces
1 1/3 c  Powdered sugar
3 tb Unsweetened cocoa
Powdered sugar
Unsweetened cocoa
50    Whole candied cherries
3/4 c  Cherry brandy
1/2 lb Sweet milk chocolate, broken
-into pieces
1/4 lb Unsweetened baking
-chocolate, broken into
Soak the cherries in the brandy overnight or longer.  Drain cherries,
reserve the brandy.

Cream butter and sugar with a mixer.  In a double boiler, melt the
chocolates. Spoon the melted chocolate, spoon by spoon, into the
butter and sugar mixture and mix thoroughly by hand.

Add reserved brandy to sugar and chocolate mixture and stir in my hand
until all is absorbed.  Add 3 T. cocoa and mix by hand.

Put mixture in a clean bowl and thoroughly chill in the freezer.
Meanwhile, make a 50-50 mixture of powdered sugar and cocoa.  Begin
with 1/3 c. EACH and mix thoroughly.  Heavily dust a sheet of waxed
paper on a working surface.

When the chocolate mixture is chilled and very stiff, remove from the
freezer. Drop by teaspoonfuls on dusted working surface and dust your
fingers in the sugar/cocoa mixture, press with fingers to make a
small flat shape with the chocolate.  Drop a cherry in the center and
form a ball around the cherry.

Working quickly, complete the shape by rolling the ball between your
palms.

Roll ball in sugar/cocoa mixture to coat.  Continue working until the
chocolate mixture is too soft to continue.  Return to freezer to
chill some more and continue until all the chocolate and cherries are
gone.

The chocolate covered cherries can be stored in the frig.

For a lighter, sweeter chocolate taste, increase the sweet chocolate
and decrease or eliminate the unsweetened chocolate.  The more milk
chocolate you use, the more diffucult it will be to work with as it
melts rather rapidly.

You can also substitute and equal portion of semi-sweet bits (toll
house chocolates) for the chocolate.

Other candied fruit and liquors can be used according to your taste.

Enjoy!

