Title: CHOCOLATE PISTACHIO ORANGE CAKE
Categories: Dessert
Yield: 12 servings
2 tb Orange Liqueur
1    Whipped Cream
1 1/2 c  Heavy whipping cream
2 tb Sugar
2 tb Orange Liqueur
1    Shaved Milk Chocolate
1    Candied Orange Peel
1    Blanched Pistachios
1    Sugar, confectioners
1    Moistening Syrup
1/2 c  Water
1/4 c  Sugar
3 tb Orange Liqueur
1    Pistachio Sponge
1 c  Blanched pistachios
3/4 c  Cake flour
4    Eggs separated
3/4 c  Sugar
1 ts Grated lemon zest
1/4 ts Almond extract
1    Orange Ganache
12 oz Chocolate, finely cut
1 c  Heavy whipped cream
3 tb Orange Liqueur
1    Candied Orange Filling
1/2 c  Candied orange peel
This striking and unusual dessert utilizes three flavors which
harmonize beautifully in taste and appearance.

Preparing the Sponge.  Butter a 9-inch diameter x 2 1/2 - to - inch
deep springform pan and line the bottom with a piece of parchment
paper, cut to fit.  Process the nuts in a food processor until very
fine. Sift the cake flour over the nuts and combine.  Whip the yolks,
then whip in half the sugar until light in color and aerated.  Whip
the egg whites and salt on medium speed until white and opqaque.
Increase the speed and whip in the remaining sugar.  Continue
whipping the whites until the whites hold a firm peak.  Fold the
yolks into the whites, then fold in the pistachio mixture in two or
three additions. Pour the batter into the prepared pan. Bake at 350
degrees F about 30 minutes. Remove from the pan and cool on a rack,
on the paper.

Preparing the Ganache.  Place the chocolate in a bowl.  Bring the
cream to a boil and pour over the chocolate.  Let stand 2 minutes,
then whisk smooth and strain into another bowl.  Refrigerate,
whisking until cool, but not set.

Preparing the Syrup.  Combine the water and sugar in a small pan and
bring to a boil.  Cool and stir in the orange liqueur.

Preparing the Filling.  Finely chop the peel and combine with the
liqueur.

Preparing the Whipped Cream.  Combine the cream, sugar and liqueur
and whip on medium speed until firm.

Assembling.  Using a sharp serrated knife, divide the Pistachio
Sponge into two layers and place one on a cardboard.  Moisten with
half the syrup and spread with most of the Ganache, reserving some
for a decoration. Drain the candied peel and distribute evenly on the
Ganache. Cover with a layer of whipped cream.  Place the second layer
on the cream and moisten with the remaining syrup.  Cover the outside
of the cake with the shipped cream and press the shavings against the
side of the cake. Make a border of rosettes around the edge of the
cake with the remaining Ganache and decorate the rosettes with
cutouts of candied peel and some pistachios. Place some chipped
pistachios in the center and dust them lightly with confectioners'
sugar.

Holding.  Refrigerate the cake for up to 6 hours before serving.

