Title: Dajaj Mahshy (Roast Chicken with Rice and Pine (see dirs)
Categories: Middle east, Chicken, Dress/stuff, Rice dishes
Yield: 4 servings
2 c  Water
1 tb Currants, dried
2 tb Salt
Black pepper; freshly ground
4 tb Butter; melted
3 1/2 lb Chicken; whole
3 tb Yoghurt
1 c  Rice, raw long grained; or
;medium white rice
4 tb Butter
1/2 c  Onion; finely chopped
Giblets of chicken; coarsely
;chopped, (liver, heart and
;gizzard)
2 tb Pine nuts; (pignolia)
Name; Roast Chicken with Rice and Pine Nut Stuffing

Place the rice in a sieve or colander and wash under hot running
water until the water runs clear.  Drain, and set aside.
In a heavy 3 to 4 quart saucepan, melt the 4 tablespoons of butter
over moderate heat.  When the foam begins to subside, add the onions
and, stirring frequently, cook for 5 minutes, or until they are soft
and transparent but not brown.  Add the giblets and pine nuts and
cook for 2 or 3 minutes.  When the giblets show no trace of pink and
the pine nuts are a delicate brown, stir in the rice and continue
cooking until the grains glisten with butter.  Add the water,
currants, 1 tablespoon of the salt, and a few grindings of pepper.
Bring to a boil, reduce the heat to low, cover and simmer for 25 to
30 minutes until the rice has absorbed all the liquid in the pan.
Remove from the heat and with a fork stir in the melted butter.
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees (F).  Pat the chicken thoroughly dry
inside and out with paper towels, and spoon about 1 cup of the rice
mixture into the cavity.  (Set the remaining rice aside.)  Lace the
opening closed with skewers or by sewing it with a large needle and
heavy white thread. Fasten the neck skin to the back with a skewer
and truss the bird securely.
Combine the yoghurt with the remaining 1 tablespoon of salt and a
few grindings of pepper and brush about half of the mixture over the
chicken. Place the chicken, breast side up, on a rack in a shallow
roasting pan. Roast in the middle of the oven for 15 minutes, then
reduce the heat to 350.  Baste the chicken with the remaining yoghurt
mixture and roast for 1 hour more.  To test the chicken for doneness,
pierce the thigh with the point o fa small, sharp knife.  The juice
that runs out should be pale yellow; if it is tinged with pink, roast
the chicken another 5 to 10 minutes.
Transfer the bird to a heated platter, remove the trussing strings,
and let the chicken rest for 5 minutes or so for easier carving.
Fluff the reserved rice mixture with a fork, warm it over low heat,
and serve it in a separate bowl.

53 of 116

Time Life Series: Middle Eastern Cooking "circa '69"

MMed by: earl.cravens@salata.com
Submitted By EARL CRAVENS   On   02-05-95

