Title: Deluxe Roast Chicken with Bread Sauce ^
Categories: Chicken, Main dish
Yield: 4 servings
-skewered
8    Italian sausages
BREAD SAUCE:
2    Cloves
1    Onion
1 c  Milk
1/2    Bay leaf
1    Sprig parsley
1/8 ts Nutmeg
6    Peppercorns
1 c  Fresh breadcrumbs
1 tb Butter
2 tb Light cream
Salt to taste
3/4 c  Butter
1 lg Onion, chopped
2 c  Fresh bread crumbs
2 tb Chopped cooked ham
1 tb Chopped parsley
1 ts Thyme
1/8 ts Grated lemon rind
1    Egg, beaten
Salt and pepper to taste
6 lb Roasting chicken
4 ts Vegetable oil
2 c  Chicken stock made from
-giblets.
4 sl Bacon, halved, rolled up and
Preheat oven to 400. Melt 1/4 cup butter in saucepan. Add half the
chopped onion and saute 3-4 minutes, until softened. Combine with
bread crumbs, chopped ham, herbs and grated lemon rind. Add enough
beaten egg to make a fairly moist mixture. Season with salt and
pepper. Spoon stuffing into cavity of chicken. Put remaining onion
and some salt and pepper into neck along with some butter. Fold skin
flap under wings and skewer and sew to hold in place. Rub remaining
butter over chicken and sprinkle with salt and pepper Heat oil in
roasting pan. When hot, add chicken, baste thoroughly, then cover
with foil. Roast, basting every 15 minutes and turning chicken from
side to side. Allow 20 minutes per pound. During last 15 minutes of
cooking time, remove foil to allow chicken to brown. Transfer to
serving dish and keep warm while preparing gravy. Pour off fat from
roasting pan. Pour in remaining chicken stock and bring to a boil.
For more flavor, reduce liquid by boiling. Bread Sauce: Stick cloves
into onion. Place onion, milk, herbs and peppercorns in saucepan.
cook gently 20-30 minutes without boiling. Place breadcrumbs in
saucepan. Sltrain milk over breadcrumbs; heat, stirring constantly,
until creamy. Stir in butter, cream and salt; serve hot. Preheat
broiler. Broil bacon and sausages until crisp. Selrve chicken
surrounded by bacon rolls and sausages. Serve chicken gravy and bread
sauce separately.

Creative Cooking: Poultry Typed by Carolyn Shaw 1-95
Submitted By CAROLYN SHAW   On   02-07-95

