Title: Garides me Saltsa (Shrimp in Tomato, Wine and (see dirs))
Categories: Middle east, Greek, Seafood
Yield: 4 servings
2 tb Parsley; finely chopped,
;preferred flat leaf parsley
1/2 ts Oregano; crumbled
1 ts Salt
Black pepper; freshly ground
2 oz Feta cheese; cut into 1/4
;inch cubes
4 md Tomato; fresh, ripe or 1 1/2
;cups chopped, drained,
;canned tomatoes
1 1/2 lb Shrimp, raw; in shells (25
;to 30 medium sized shrimp)
6 tb Olive oil
1/4 c  Onion; finely chopped
1/2 c  Wine, dry white
Name; Shrimp in Tomato, Wine and Feta Cheese Sauce

Drop the fresh tomatoes into a pan of boiling water and remove them
after 15 seconds.  Run them under cold water, and with a small, sharp
knife, peel them.  Cut out the stems, then slice the tomatoes in half
crosswise. Squeeze the halves gently to remove the seeds and juices,
and chop the tomatoes coarsely.  (Canned tomatoes only need to be
drained and chopped.)
Shell the shrimp but leave the last shell segment and tail attached
to the body of the shrimp.  With a small, sharp knife, devein the
shrimp by making a shallow incision down their backs and lifting out
the intestinal vein with the point of the knife.  Wash the shrimp
under cold running water and pat them dry with paper towels.  Set
aside.
In a heavy 10 to 12 inch skillet or shallow casserole, heat the oil
over moderate heat until a light haze forms above it.  Add the onions
and, stirring frequently, cook for 5 minutes, or until they are soft
and transparent but not brown. Stir in the tomatoes, wine, 1
tablespoon of the parsley, the oregano, salt and a few grindings of
pepper. Bring to a boil and cook briskly, uncovered, until the
mixture thickens to a light puree. Add the shrimp and cook over
moderate heat for 5 minutes. When the shrimp are pink and firm to the
touch, stir in the cheese, taste for seasoning and sprinkle the top
with the remaining tablespoon of parsley. Serve directly form the
skillet or casserole. Customarily, the shrimp are accompanied by
crusty loaves of bread.

60 of 116

Source: Time Life Series: Middle Eastern Cooking "circa '69"

MMed by: earl.cravens@salata.com
Submitted By EARL CRAVENS   On   02-12-95

