Title: Ginger Fig Pudding with Vanilla Sauce - Country Living
Categories: Dessert, Holiday, Fruit, Pudding
Yield: 8 servings
1/2 c  Finely chopped dried figs
1 T  Finely chopped crystallized
-ginger
1 c  Unsifted all-purpose flour
1 t  Ground ginger
1/2 t  Baking soda
1/2 t  Salt
1/2 c  Milk
Vanilla Sauce (recipe
-follows)
1 T  Plus 1/4 C dark molasses
1 T  Plus 1/4 C dark corn syrup
1/2 c  (1 stick) butter, softened
1/2 c  Firmly packed dark-brown
-sugar
3    Large eggs
1 sm Ripe banana, mashed
1. Prepare Vanilla Sauce and set aside to cool; cover and refrigerate
while preparing Ginger Fig Pudding: In 1-quart pudding mold or
ovenproof bowl, combine 1 T each molasses and corn syrup. Over low
heat or in microwave (if mold or bowl is microwave-safe), warm
molasses mixture until it runs easily; swirl molasses mixture to coat
inside of mold and set aside.

2. Heat oven to 350'F. Remove one oven rack and place remaining rack
at the lowest level in the oven. In 8-quart covered stockpot, heat 2
inches water to boiling over high heat. Reduce the heat to low and
keep water simmering while preparing pudding: In large bowl, with
electric mixer at medium speed, beat butter and sugar until light in
color and texture. Add remaining 1/4 C each molasses and corn syrup;
beat until blended, scraping side of bowl as necessary. Add eggs, one
at a time, beating well after each addition. On low speed, beat in
banana, figs, and crystallized ginger until mixed.

3. In small bowl, combine flour, ground ginger, baking soda, and
salt. Add to pudding mixture alternately with milk, beating at low
speed just until blended. Pour pudding mixture into prepared mold.

4. Stand pudding mold in pot of simmering water; cover pot and
carefully transfer to oven. Steam pudding in oven 1 1/4 hours or
until a long bamboo skewer inserted to the bottom comes out clean.
Remove mold from pot and cool on wire rack 10 minutes. (Do not cool
completely or pud- ding will stick to mold.) Carefully turn pudding
mold upside down onto serving plate and gently remove mold,
protecting hands as mold will still be hot. Serve warm with Vanilla
Sauce.

Vanilla Sauce: In small saucepan, heat 1 C half-and-half to boiling.
Meanwhile, in small bowl, combine 3 large egg yolks and 2 T sugar.
Slowly whisk half-and-half into yolk mixture. Pour all back into
saucepan and cook, stirring constantly, over very low heat until
sauce thickens slightly and coats a spoon. (Do not boil.) Stir in 1 t
vanilla extract.

Nutritional information per serving with Vanilla Sauce-protein: 7
grams; fat: 19 grams; carbohydrate: 56 grams; fiber: 2 grams; sodium:
354 milligrams; cholesterol; 2(X) milligrams; calories: 422.

Country Living/April/93 Scanned & fixed by DP & GG
Submitted By LAWRENCE KELLIE   On   02-12-95

