Title: GOURMET GLOSSARY 2
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 info  ~currants a dried variety of tiny grapes that are often used in
baking. They are not to be confused with red or black currants that
are used fresh in wines and jellies.

~daikon radish (Oriental radish) large, crisp white radish that can be
eaten raw in dips and salads, and cooked as in stir-fries. It is
especially helpful in digesting greasy foods.

~eggless mayonnaise a cholesterol-free dressing made with either tofu,
canola oil or safflower oil instead of eggs.

~endive salad green with silky white leaves that is sometimes sold as
escarole. It is botanically related to chicory.

~escarole a salad green with short curly leaves and a succulent flavor

~fennel seeds with a licorice-like flavor, from a plant in the parsley
family.

~feta cheese a crumble, white cheese made from goat's milk. It is
especially popular in Greek and Turkish cuisine.

~flaxseed oil the mild-tasting oil of an annual herb. It aids in
digestion and acts as a laxative.

~FruitSource a brand name sweetener made from grapes and rice. It is
available in either liquid or granulated form.

~gingerroot fresh root of a tropical plant. it has a pungent, aromatic
flavor used often in Asian stir-fries.

~habanero pepper a small, orange, lantern-shaped chile pepper. it is
up to 100 times hotter than the jalape¤o pepper.

~jalape¤o pepper a small, plump, green or red chile pepper used
especially in Mexican cooking. It varies from mildly hot to very hot.

~juniper berries small, blue or black, berry-like cones of a shrub in
the pine family. Juniper berries oil is used for its antiseptic,
diuretic and detoxifying properties.

~leek a member of the onion family. It has a cylindrical white bulb
and long, slender green leaves.

~mango chutney a condiment made from unripe mangoes, oils, chilies and
spices. It is common to Indian cuisine.

~masa harina a fine-grained yellow cornmeal treated with lime and
used in Southwestern cooking.

~Mexican-style stewed tomatoes commercially prepared tomatoes stewed
with onions, garlic and cumin.

~miso a salty-tasting paste made from fermented, crushed soybeans and
sometimes grains such as barley, rice or wheat.

~nopalitos soft-fleshed green pads of the prickly pear cactus used in
southwestern cooking and found in well-stocked markets.

~oat flour a gluten-free flour made from finely ground whole oat
groats. It retains its natural antioxidant nutrients and is often
used in addition to other flours for richer texture in baked goods.

VEGETARIAN GOURMET
SPRING 1995
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   02-18-95

