Title: Hirino me Selino Avgolemono (Braised Pork and (see dirs))
Categories: Middle east, Greek, Pork, Salsa/sauce
Yield: 6 servings
Black pepper; freshly ground
6 tb Olive oil
2 c  Onion; finely chopped
3 c  Water
1    Egg
1 ts Cornstarch; dissolved in 2
;tablespoons of water
3 tb Lemon juice, fresh
2 ts Salt
2 lb Celery; with the leaves
;separated into stalks,
;trimmed and cut into 2 inch
;lengths
2 1/2 lb Pork, lean boneless; trim of
;excess fat, cut into 1 inch
;cubes
Name; Braised Pork and Celery with Egg and Lemon Sauce

In a large saucepan, bring 2 quarts of water and 1 teaspoon of the
salt to a boil over high heat.  Drop in the celery and return the
water to a boil.  Cook briskly, uncovered, for 15 minutes or until
the celery shows only slight resistance to the point of a small,
sharp knife. Drain the celery in a large sieve or colander and  run
cold water over it to stop the cooking.  Set aside.
Pat the pork completely dry with paper towels and season the cubes
with the remaining teaspoon of salt and a few grindings of pepper. In
a heavy 10 to 12 inch skillet, heat the oil over high heat until a
light haze forms above it.  Brown the pork in the hot oil in 2 or 3
batches, turning the cubes frequently with a spoon and regulating the
heat so they color deeply and evenly on all sides without burning. As
they brown, transfer the cubes to a plate and set aside.
Add the onions to the fat remaining in the skillet and, stirring
frequently, cook for 5 minutes, or until they are soft and
transparent but not brown.  Pour in the 3 cups of water and bring to
a boil over high heat. Then return the pork, turning it about with a
spoon to coat it evenly with the onion mixture.  Reduce the heat to
low, cover tightly and simmer for 15 minutes longer, or until the
meat shows no resistance when pierced with the point of a small,
sharp knife.
Beat the egg with a whisk or rotary beater until frothy.  Give the
cornstarch mixture a quick stir to recombine it and add it to the
egg. Beat in the pork.  Stirring constantly, pour the mixture into
the skillet. Still stirring, cook over low heat until the sauce
thickens slightly, but do not let boil.  Serve at once, from a heated
platter.
NOTE:  In Greece, very young celery root, with stalks and leaves, is
available and would customarily be used in this dish.  It is
difficult to find in the United States, but if you can obtain it, you
may substitute 2 pounds of young celery root for the celery.

49 of 116

Time Life Series: Middle Eastern Cooking "circa '69"

MMed by: earl.cravens@salata.com
Submitted By EARL CRAVENS   On   02-05-95

