Title: INDIVIDUAL ALMOND-CREAM TARTS
Categories: Dessert
Yield: 20 servings
1 cn Mandarin-orange sect.(11oz)
1    Kiwifruit,medium
5    Strawberries,large
1/4 lb Grapes,green,seedless
1    Chocolate square,unsweetened
5 1/2 oz Apple jelly
1 ts Water
2 1/2 c  Flour,all-purpose
2/3 c  Butter or margarine,cold
1/2 c  Water,cold
2    Eggs,separated
2 pk Vanilla pudding(3 3/8oz)
2 1/2 c  Milk
1 c  Whipping cream
1 ts Almond extract
1. Whip cream. Drain mandarin-orange sections. Peel and slice
kiwifruit. Coarsely grate chocolate square. Prepare tart shells; Into
medium-sized bowl, measure flour and butter or margarine. With
fingertips, blend flour and butter until mixture resembles coarse
crumbs. In cup, beat cold water with egg yolks. Add yolk mixture to
flour mixture, stirring to mix well. Shape pastry into a ball.
2. Preheat oven to 400'F. On well-floured surface, with floured
rolling pin, roll pastry 1/8"-thick. With floured 4 1/4" round cookie
cutter, cut out 20 pastry circles, rerolling trimmings if necessary.
Gently press each circle onto bottom and up side of fluted tart pan
(or use twenty-four 2 1/2" muffin-pan cups, and cut circles with a 3
1/2" round cookie cutter). With fork, prick pastry in many places.
Arrange tart pans in 2 jelly-roll pans for easy handling. Bake 20-25
minutes until pastry is lightly browned.
3. In cup, beat egg whites until frothy. Quickly brush hot tart
shells with beaten egg whites. Cool tart shells in pans on wire racks
10 minutes. With knife, gently loosen tart shells from sides of pans;
remove from pans; cool completely on wire racks, about 20 mintes.
4. When tarts shells are cool, prepare cream filling. Prepare 2
packages of instant pudding mix as label directs, but prepare both
packages together and use only a total of only 2 1/2 cups milk. With
rubber spatula, fold whipped cream and almond extract into pudding.
5. Spoon filling into tart shells. Decorate some filled tart shells
with mandarin-orange sections, some with kiwifruit, some with
strawberries, some with grapes, and some with chocolate.
6. Prepare glaze: In small saucepan over medium-low heat, heat apple
jelly with water, stirring often, until jelly melts and mixture is
smooth; brush over fruit. Let glaze dry, about 10 minutes. Cover
tarts and refrigerate.

