Title: Kammooniyya (Baked Fish with Tomatoes and Rice)
Categories: Middle east, Fish, Rice dishes, Tomato
Yield: 4 servings
4    Porgy fillets; (each about
;1/2 pound), or other firm
;white fish fillets
1 md Tomato; slice 1/4 inch thick
RICE:
1/4 c  Vegetable oil
1/2 c  Onion; finely chopped
2 c  Rice, white; long or medium
;grain
3 c  Cold water
1 ts Salt
Black pepper; freshly ground
2 tb Vegetable oil
1/4 c  Vegetable oil
2 lg Onion; peeled and sliced 1/4
;inch thick
3 cl Garlic; peeled and cut
;crosswise into paper thin
;slices
1 ts Ground cumin
1 c  Celery; finely chopped
1/2 c  Tomato puree; canned
1 c  Water
1 1/2 ts Salt
Black pepper; freshly ground
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees (F).  With a pastry brush spread 1
tablespoon of the oil on the bottom and sides of a shallow baking
serving dish just large enough to hold the fillets side by side in
one layer.
In a heavy 10 to 12 inch skillet, heat 1/4 cup of oil over moderate
heat until a light haze forms above it.  Add the sliced onions,
garlic and cumin and, stirring frequently, cook for 7 or 8 minutes,
or until the onions are soft and golden brown.  Be careful not to let
the garlic burn. With a slotted spoon, transfer the onion mixture to
a plate. Add the celery to the oil remaining in the skillet and stir
it for about 5 minutes until it is soft but not colored.  Return the
onions to the pan and stir in the tomato puree, water, 1/2 teaspoon
of the salt, and a few grindings of the pepper. Stirring constantly,
cook briskly until most of the liquid in the pan has evaporated and
the mixture is thick enough to hold its shape almost solidly in the
spoon. Remove the pan from the heat.
Wash the fish fillets under cold running water and pat them
completely dry with paper towels.  Sprinkle them with the remaining
teaspoon of salt and arrange them side by side in the baking dish.
Pour the sauce over the fish, smoothing and spreading it to the edges
of the dish with a spatula. Arrange the tomato slices on top of the
fillets and sprinkle them with the remaining tablespoon of oil. cover
the dish tightly with a lid or foil. Bake in the middle of the oven
for 20 minutes, remove the cover and bake for 15 minutes longer, or
until the sauce has begun to bubble and the tomatoes are lightly
browned.

Rice:
Meanwhile, prepare the rice in the following fashion.  In a heavy 3
to 4 quart saucepan, heat the 1/4 cup of oil over moderate heat until
a light haze forms above it.  Add the chopped onions and, stirring
frequently, cook for about 10 minutes, or until they are deeply
browned. Pour in the rice and stir for 2 or 3 minutes until the
grains are well coated with oil.
Add the water, 1 teaspoon of salt, and a few grindings of pepper, and
return to a boil, still stirring.  Cover the pan and reduce the heat
to its lowest point.  Simmer for 20 minutes, or until the rice has
absorbed all the liquid.  Remove the pan from the heat and let the
rice rest covered for 5 minutes before serving.
Serve the fish directly from the baking dish.  Fluff the rice with a
fork, and serve it separately from a heated bowl.

61 of 116

Source: Time Life Series: Middle Eastern Cooking "circa '69"

MMed by: earl.cravens@salata.com
Submitted By EARL CRAVENS   On   02-12-95

