Title: Kota Kapama (Braised Chicken in Tomato and Cinnamon Sauce
Categories: Middle east, Greek, Chicken, Salsa/sauce
Yield: 4 servings
;seeded and finely chopped,
;(prefer plum tomatoes), or
;1 cup drained, chopped,
;canned plum tomatoes
2 tb Tomato paste
1/2 c  Chicken stock; fresh or can
1    Cinnamon stick; 4 inch long
Kefalotiri; freshly grated
;or use parmesan cheese
3 1/2 lb Whole chicken; cut into 8
;serving pieces
Salt
Black pepper; freshly ground
4 tb Butter
1/4 c  Olive oil
1 1/2 c  Onion; finely chopped
1 tb Garlic; finely chopped
6    Tomato; fresh, ripe, peeled,
Pat the chicken completely dry with paper towels and season the
pieces liberally with salt and a few grindings of pepper.  In a heavy
10 to 12 inch skillet, melt the butter in the oil over moderate heat.
When the foam begins to subside, add the chicken a few pieces at a
time, starting them skin side down and turning them with tongs.
Regulate the heat so that the chicken colors quickly and evenly.  As
the pieces brown, transfer them to a plate.
Pour off all but a thin film of fat from the skillet and add the
onions and garlic.  Stirring frequently, cook for 8 to 10 minutes, or
until the onions are lightly colored.  Stir in the tomatoes, tomato
paste, chicken stock, cinnamon stick, 1/2 teaspoon of salt and a few
grindings of pepper.
Bring to a boil, then return the chicken to the skillet and baste it
thoroughly with the sauce.  Reduce the heat to low, cover tightly and
simmer, basting occasionally, for about 30 minutes, or until the
chicken is tender.  Taste for seasoning.
To serve, arrange the pieces of chicken attractively on a heated
platter and spoon the sauce over them.  Or serve, as is often done in
Greece, with any type of hot pasta.  Mound the pasta in the middle of
a deep platter and ladle the sauce over it, tossing the strands about
to coat them evenly. Arrange the chicken around the pasta and serve
at once, accompanied by freshly grated kefalotiri or Parmesan cheese.

54 of 116

Time Life Series: Middle Eastern Cooking "circa '69"

MMed by: earl.cravens@salata.com
Submitted By EARL CRAVENS   On   02-05-95

