Title: Lake Garda Apple Cake (Torta di Mele)
Categories: Dessert, Italian, Cake/cookie, Fruit
Yield: 12 servings
Grated zest of 1 lemon
3 lg Eggs, AT ROOM TEMPERATURE
1 1/2 c  All purpose flour
3/4 ts Baking powder
1/4 ts Fine sea salt
1/2 ts Ground cinnamon
3    Golden delicious apples
(appx 1 1/2 lbs)
Unsalted butter AND
All purpose flour for
-preparing the baking pan
8 tb Unsalted butter, AT ROOM
-TEMPERATURE
1 c  Vanilla sugar
1 ts Vanilla extract (pure)
3 tb Whole milk
1.  Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F.

2.  Generously butter and flour a 9-inch springform pan, tapping out
any excess flour.  Set aside.

3.  In the bowl of an electric mixer fitted with a paddle, cream the
butter, 3/4 cup of the vanilla sugar, the vanilla, milk, and lemon
zest until light and fluffy, 1 to 2 minutes.  Add the eggs, one by
one, beating thoroughly after each addition.

4.  Sift the flour, baking powder, and salt into a large bowl.  Spoon
the mixture into the batter and mix until thoroughly belnded.  Scrape
down the sides of the bowl and mix once more.  Set aside for 10
minutes to allow the flour to absorb the liquids.

5.  In a large bowl, toss together 2 tablespoons of the vanilla sugar
and 1/4 teaspoon of the cinnamon.  Peel and core the apples, and cut
each lengthwise into 16 even wedges.  Transfer the apples to the
bowl, tossing with the cinnamon sugar.  Set aside.

6.  Spoon the batter into the prepared cake pan, smoothing out the
top with a spatula.  Starting just inside the edge of thepan, neatly
overlap the wedges of apples-thicker curved outer side against the
side of the pan-in 2 or 3 concentric circles, working toward the
center. Fill in the center with the remaining apples.  Toss together
the remaining 2 tablespoons sugar and 1/4 teaspoon cinnamon, and
sprinkle over the apples.

7.  Place the pan in the center of the oven.  Bake until the apples
are a deep golden brown and the cake feels quite firm when pressed
with a fingertip, about 1 hour.  Remove to a baking rack to cool.
After 10 minutes, run a knife along the sides of the pan.  Release
and remove the side of the springform pan, leaving the cake on the
pan base. Serve at room temperature, cutting into thin wedges.

From "Patricia Wells' Trattoria," by Patricia Wells Posted by Hilde
Mott 2/1/95
Submitted By HILDE MOTT   On   02-01-95

