Title: Mung Beans and Rice with Spicy Greens and Yogurt
Categories: Vegetable, Rice dishes
Yield: 4 servings
MMMMM-----------------------BEANS AND RICE----------------------------
-vegetable oil
1 md Onion; finely diced
2    Jalape¤o chiles, seeded
-deribbed, finely diced
2 tb Dill; chopped OR
1 ts Dill seeds
1/2 ts Cumin seeds
1 1/2 ts Salt
1 c  Basmati rice
3/4 c  Green mung beans
-picked over, rinsed well
1/4 c  Cilantro; finely chopped
3 md Garlic cloves
1 tb Ginger; minced
1 ts Garam masala
1/2 ts Turmeric
1/4 ts Cayenne pepper
2 tb Ghee, melted butter or
MMMMM---------------------YOGURT AND GREENS--------------------------
-finely diced
1/2 ts Cumin seeds
1/2 ts Dill seeds
Salt
Juice of 2 limes
Chopped cilantro or dill
-to garnish
2 c  Yogurt
3 lg Bunches spinach OR
2 bn Mustard greens
-about 3 lbs
-thoroughly rinsed
1 1/2 tb Butter
1    Jalape¤o chile
1. make the mung beans and rice: In a large bowl, cover the mung
beans with water and let soak for at least 6 hours or overnight. Or,
in a large saucepan, cover the beans with water and boil over
moderately high heat for 2 minutes. Remove from the heat, cover and
let soak for 1 hour. Drain off the soaking liquid and rinse the beans
well.

2. Using a mortar and pestle, pound the fresh cilantro with the
garlic, ginger, garam masala, turmeric and cayenne to make a rough
paste. Stir in 1 tablespoon of water to thin it.

3. Heat the ghee in a large saucepan. Add the onion, jalape¤os, dill
and cumin seeds and cook over moderate heat, stirring frequently,
until the onion starts to brown, 8 to 10 minutes. Add the spice paste
and cook for 3 minutes longer. Stir in the mung beans, salt and 3«
cups of water and bring to a boil. Reduce the heat to moderately low,
cover and simmer for 15 minutes. Add the rice, cover and cook until
the water is absorbed and the mung beans are tender but not mushy,
about 18 minutes. Remove from the heat and let stand, covered, for 10
minutes.

4. Meanwhile, make the yogurt and spicy greens: Put the yogurt in a
fine stainless steel sieve set over a bowl and let stand for 20
minutes to let the whey drain. Discard the whey and transfer the
yogurt to a bowl.

5. Trim off the spinach or mustard stems and coarsely chop the
leaves. melt the butter in a large nonreactive skillet. Add the
jalape¤o, cumin seeds and dill seeds and cook over moderate heat,
stirring briskly, until the cumin seeds start to brown, 1 to 2
minutes. Stir in the spinach, season with salt and cook until tender,
stirring frequently so that the spices don't burn, about 2 minutes
for spinach and 5 minutes for mustard greens. Stir in the lime juice.

6. To serve, spoon the mung beans and rice onto plates and top with
the spicy cooked greens and a sprinkling of fresh cilantro. Top with
a generous dollop of yogurt and serve immediately, passing the
remaining yogurt separately .

Food and Wine January 1995
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   02-01-95

