Title: New Year's Eve Cake
Categories: Cake/cookie
Yield: 2 servings
3/4 c  Sugar
4 tb Swans Down Cake Flour
1/2 ts Salt
2    Egg yolks, slightly beaten
1 tb Butter
1 ts Vanilla
Hungarian Chocolate Frosting
3    Squares Baker's Unsweetened
-Chocolate
1 1/2 c  Sifted confectioners' sugar
2 1/2 tb Hot water
3    Egg yolks
4 tb Butter
3 c  Sifted Swan's Down Cake
-Flour
3 ts Calumet Baking Powder
1/2 ts Salt
2/3 c  Butter or other shortening
2 c  Sugar
1 c  Milk
1 1/2 ts Vanilla
6    Egg whites, stiffly beaten
Chocolate Cream Filling
3    Squares Baker's Unsweetened
-Chocolate
2 c  Milk
Sift flour once, measure, add baking powder and salt and sift together
three times. Cream butter thoroughly, add sugar gradually, and cream
together until light and fluffy. Add flour, alternately with milk, a
small amount at a time, beating after each addition until smooth. Add
flavoring. Fold in egg whites quickly and thoroughly. Bake in three
greased 9-inch layer pans in moderate oven (375 degrees Fahrenheit)
20 to 25 minutes. Spread Chocolate Cream Filling (page 43) between
layers and Hungarian Chocolate Frosting (page 40) on top and sides of
cake. When frosting is set, write the numbers from one to twelve
around top of cake with white frosting to represent the face of a
clock. Place hands of clock at twelve o'clock.

Chocolate Cream Filling Add chocolate to milk and heat in double
boiler. When chocolate is melted, beat with rotary egg beater until
blended. Combine sugar, flour, and salt; add gradually to chocolate
mixture and cook until thickened, stirring occasionally. Pour small
amount of mixture over egg yolks, stirring vigorously; return to
double boiler and cook 2 minutes longer, stirring constantly. Add
butter and vanilla, and cool. Makes 2 1/2 cups filling, or enough
filling to spread between three 9-inch layers. Use this filling in
small cup cakes. Use 1/2 recipe for filling 2 1/2 to 3 dozen small
cup cakes.

Hungarian Chocolate Frosting Melt chocolate in double boiler. Remove
from boiling water, add sugar and water, and blend. Add egg yolks,
one at a time, beating will after each. Add butter, a tablespoon at a
time, beating thoroughly after each amount. Makes enough frosting to
cover the top of one 9-inch layer and sides of three 9-inch layers,
or to cover the tops and sides of two 9-inch layers.

Eat lots of this and you too can look like Kate Smith! Probably won't
be able to sing as well though...

