Title: Papas a la Huncaina (Whole boiled Potatoes with (see dirs
Categories: So. america, Vegetable, Side dish, Chilies, Cheese/eggs
Yield: 8 servings
1 ts Turmeric
2 ts Hot chili, red/green, fresh
;seeded and finely chopped
1/3 c  Olive oil
1    Hot chili, red/green, fresh
;stemmed, seeded and cut
;lengthwise into 1/8 inch
;strips
4    Eggs, hard cooked; cut
;lengthwise into halves
8    Black olives
Bibb or Boston lettuce leafs
1/4 c  Lemon juice, fresh
1 1/2 ts Hontaka chili; crumbled,
;seeded, dried, or 3 pequin
;chilies, crumbled
1 ts Salt
Black pepper; freshly ground
1 lg Onion; peeled, thinly sliced
;and separated into rings
8 md Potatoes, boiling; peeled
1 c  Queso blanco; coarsely
;crumbled,or coarsely grated
;Mozzarella / Munster cheese
2/3 c  Cream, heavy
MMMMM----------------SILVER XPRESS MAIL SYSTEM 5---------------------
Name: Whole Boiled Potatoes with Cheese and Chili Sauce

In a large mixing bowl, combine the lemon juice, 1 1/2 teaspoons of
dried chili or the pequin chilies, 1/2 teaspoon of salt and a few
grindings of black pepper.  Add the onion rings, turning them about
with a spoon to coat them evenly with the mixture.  Cover the bowl
and set aside to marinate at room temperature while you boil the
potatoes.

Drop the potatoes into a large pot of lightly salted boiling water
(enough to cover them completely), and boil the potatoes briskly
until they are tender but not falling apart.  Meanwhile make the
sauce by combining the cheese, cream, turmeric, chopped fresh chili,
1/2 teaspoon salt, and a few grindings of pepper in the jar of a
blender. Blend at high speed for 30 seconds, or until smooth and
creamy. (To make the sauce by hand, beat the ingredients together
until they are well combined.) In a heavy 10 inch skillet, heat the
olive oil over moderate heat. Pour in the cheese and cream sauce,
reduce the heat to low, and cook, stirring constantly, for 5 to 8
minutes, or until the sauce thickens.

To assemble, arrange the potatoes on a heated platter and pour the
sauce over them.  Drain the onion rings and strew the rings and fresh
chili strips over the potatoes.  Garnish with eggs, black olives and
lettuce.

74 of 108

Source: Time Life Series: Latin American Cooking

MMed by: earl.cravens@salata.com * Origin: Salata * Redondo Beach, CA
* 310-543-0439 V.32bis (1:102/125)
Submitted By MICHELLE BRUCE   On   02-04-95

