Title: Potage Queue de Boeuf a la Parisienne (Oxtail Soup)
Categories: Soup/stew, Beef, Vegetable
Yield: 1 soup
1    Bay leaf
1/2 ts Thyme
2 tb Salt
6    Peppercorns
1 1/2 c  Carrots
1 1/2 c  Turnips
1/2 ts Rosemary
1/2 ts Summer savory
1/2 ts Basil
1/2 ts Sage
1/2 c  Dry sherry
1 1/2 lb Veal shin bones and
1 1/2 lb Beef shin bones
1 lg Onion
1    Oxtail, cut in small pieces
4 qt Brown stock
1 lb Chopped lean beef
1 lg Carrot
3    Leeks
2    Stalks celery
2    Tomatoes
1    Clove garlic
MMMMM-------------------------THICKENING------------------------------
1/4 c  Cornstarch
1/4 c  Dry Sherry
In a roasting pan, spread the veal and beef shin bones and lay the
onion, cut in thick slices, on them. Roast the bones in a hot oven
(400 degrees F.) for about 40 minutes, or until they are brown. Put
the oxtail,in a kettle with enough water to cover, parboil it for 5
minutes, then drain it. Tie the pieces in a piece of cheesecloth. Put
the browned bones in a large soup kettle, add 4 quarts brown stock,
bring to a boil, and skim it. Add the oxtails,(still in the
cheesecloth), the beef, carrot, leeks, celery, tomatoes, garlic,
thyme, salt and peppercorns. Bring the stock to a boil again and skim
it. Cover the kettle and simmer the soup for 4 to 5 hours.

Prepare the carrots and turnips, cut in small balls, cook them
separately in salted water until they are tender, and drain them.

When the soup is done, remove the pieces of oxtail and reserve them,
discarding the cheesecloth. Fit a piece of muslin into a large
strainer and sprinkle over it the rosemary, summer savory, sage and
basil. Strain the soup through the muslin into another kettle. Bring
the strained soup back to a boil, taste it, and if necessary, correct
the seasoning with salt. Add the oxtail pieces, carrots, turnips and
1/4 cup of dry sherry.

For a slightly thickened soup, stir into the strained soup 1/4 cup of
cornstarch mixed in with an additional 1/4 cup of dry sherry. Cook the
soup, stirring, just until it is clear and finish as above.

from Gourmet's BAsic French Cookbook by Louis Dahl typed by Mary
Riemerman Submitted By MARY RIEMERMAN   On   02-14-95

