Title: Psari Plaki (Baked Fish with Tomato, Onion & Lemon Garnis
Categories: Middle east, Greek, Fish, Tomato
Yield: 4 servings
;prefer flat leaf
1 ts Garlic; finely chopped
1 c  Crumbs, cracker; pulverized
;in a blender or crushed
;with a rolling pin
4 tb Butter; melted
3 md Tomato; ripe, firm, cut into
;1/2 inch slices
1 lg Lemon; cut into 1/4 inch
;thick slices
1 md Onion; peeled and cut into
;1/4 inch thick slices
1    Red snapper; (about 3 pounds
;cleaned, but with head and
;tail left on, or any other
;whole, firm white fish
1 ts Salt
1 ts Oregano; crumbled
Black pepper; freshly ground
3 tb Olive oil
1/2 c  Scallions; finely chopped,
;including 2 inches of the
;green tops
1/4 c  Parsley; finely chopped,
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees (F).  Wash the fish inside and out
under cold running water and dry it thoroughly with paper towels.
With a sharp knife, score the thickest part of each side of the fish
by making 3 diagonal cuts about 1 inch apart 1/2 inch deep.  Combine
the salt, oregano and pepper in a small bowl and press the mixture
firmly into the slits.
Using a pastry brush apply 1 tablespoon of olive oil to the bottom
of a shallow baking and serving dish large enough to hold the fish
comfortably. Place the fish in the dish and dribble 1 tablespoon of
oil evenly over it.
Stir the scallions, parsley, garlic and the remaining tablespoon of
oil together in one bowl and mix the crumbs and melted butter in
another. Sprinkle the fish with the scallion mixture, arrange the
tomato slices in 2 parallel rows down its length, and spoon the
crumbs evenly over the top.
Arrange alternate slices of lemon and onion in a strip along the
length of the fish centered over the rows of tomatoes.  Bake in the
middle of the oven for 30 minutes, or until the fish feels firm when
pressed lightly with a finger.  Do not overcook.  Serve at once
directly from the casserole.

66 of 116

Source: Time Life Series: Middle Eastern Cooking "circa '69"

MMed by: earl.cravens@salata.com
Submitted By EARL CRAVENS   On   02-12-95

