Title: Roast Wild Boar (Wildschweinbraten)
Categories: Nuts/grains, Game, Vegetable, Fruit
Yield: 6 servings
MMMMM----------------KEYWORDS: SCANNED, SJK, WILD---------------------
MMMMM-----------------SOURCE: WILD GAME COOKING----------------------
Copyright & 1988 by Jonquil & Edward Barr, ISBN 0 9509182 5 3 First
published in Great Britain in 1988 by: Rosendale Press Ltd, 140
Rosendale Road London SE21 8LG Serves 6-8 METRIC/IMPERIAL U.S. 3 kg/6
1/2 lb roasting joint of wild boar on the bone  6 1/2 lb 100 g/4 oz
1 stick 250 ml/8 fl oz
butter/vegetable margarine
red wine 1 cup 3 pomegranates
3 5 ml/1 tsp arrowroot
1 tsp 60 ml/4 tbsp single (light)
1/4 cup fine sea salt and freshly ground
cream
black pepper 150 g/5 oz chopped blanched almonds 1 cup MARINADE: 6
6 6
6 10
juniper berries
allspice berries
black peppercorns 10 2 cloves 2 small bunch of rosemary 1 onion 1
carrot fine sea salt 1 litre/1 3/4 pints dry red wine
1 quart 1 orange This German recipe, an
individual variation on a classic theme, was kindly given to us by
Elke Vollstedt. The lean, pungent meat is served for special
occasions and lingers long in the memory of her friends. The marinade
must be discarded after use, as the flavour becomes too strong to be
incorporated in the final dish. To make the marinade, crush the
spices and rosemary in a mortar and put them in a heavy frying pan to
dry roast. Turn them so that they do not burn, but merely intensify
in strength. When they are heated and toasted, add the coarsely
chopped onion and carrot, salt to taste and a little of the red wine
to mix. Heat this gently to allow all the flavours to amalgamate.
Cool, then add the coarsely chopped flesh and rind of the orange. Put
the marinade in an earthenware or china dish and add the boar, its
skin removed. Cover with the remaining red wine. Cover the dish
tightly and leave in a cool place for about 3 days, turning the meat
from time to time. This will tenderise the meat and reduce some of
the strong flavour. Take the meat out of the marinade, dry it and
discard the marinade. Preheat the oven to 180-C/350-F/Mark 4. Melt
three-quarters of the butter in a roasting pan over a moderate heat,
and lightly sear the outside of the boar. Do not cook over too high a
heat or the meat will toughen. Pour the red wine over the joint. Add
the juice of two of the pomegranates. Roast the meat, basting from
time to time, for 2 1/2 - 3 hours. The meat must be well done: hunted
wild boar's meat should not be eaten rare. The basting is also
important with this very lean meat. Remove the boar to a carving
board and set aside in a warm place to rest before carving. Strain
the pan juices into a small saucepan. Mix a little of the juices with
the arrowroot, then add to the saucepan and stir while heating
gently. When thickened add the cream. Heat gently but do not boil.
Season to taste with salt and pepper. Keep warm. Toss the almonds in
the remaining butter in a frying pan until golden brown. Remove the
seeds from the third pomegranate. Carve and arrange the boar meat on
a hot dish. Pour the sauce over the meat slices and garnish with the
pomegranate seeds and almonds.

Submitted By SALLIE KREBS   On   02-20-95

