Title: Types of Chile Peppers 2
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 info  Habenero (Bahamian, Scotch bonnet)

~Appearance: short, stocky, lantern-shaped; 1" to 2«" long, 1" to 2"
wide; ripen to red, yellow, orange or white; most frequently dark
orange.

~Flavor: distinctly floral and fruity with delayed-action nasal flame
that sneaks up on you, then persists.

~Firepower: infernal, the hottest pepper known; a "10" on the heat
scale and estimated to be 100 times hotter than jalape¤os.

~Best Uses: with tomatoes and tropical fruits; in fresh salsa,
chutney, marinades and jerk sauces; for persistent heat in any dish.

Note: although very similar to the habanero, the Scotch bonnet pepper
is usually yellow in color and slightly more bonnet-shaped than
lantern-shaped.

Jalape¤o

~Appearance: plump, blunt and bullet-shaped, sometimes with dry cracks
along the thick-fleshed skin; 1" to 2" long, «" to 1" wide; shiny
medium green, red or purple when ripe.

~Flavor: green vegetable flavor with back-or-the-throat heat.

~Firepower: flaming; a fiery "5" on the heat scale.

~Best Uses: fresh in salsa, stews, sauces, breads or dips; stuffed
with cheese for a snack; as a topping for nachos.

Note: known as Chipotle Chile when smoke-dried.

Ancho (dried Poblano)

~Appearance: broad, flat, wrinkled and heart-shaped with medium-thick
flesh; 3" to 6" long, 2" to 3" wide; dark reddish mahogany (sometimes
called "mulato" when dark brown or "negro" when black)

~Flavor: mild fruit flavor with smoky, earthy hints of coffee and
dried plum.

~Firepower: cozy and warm; a modest "3" on the heat scale.

~Best Uses: chili, sauces and moles.

Note: the Spanish mole means "mixture", as in guacamole, which is a
mixture of vegetables or guaca.

Hungarian Cherry

~Appearance: fleshy and round or slightly heart-shaped; 1¬" long, 1 "
wide; ripen to orange or red.

~Flavor: medium sweetness with bright, piquant warmth.

~Firepower: warm; ranges between "4" and "1" on the heat scale.

~Best Uses: often pickled, sliced and served with sandwiches or
salads; also good when chopped fresh in salsa.

Note: especially good pungent varieties include red cherry and hot
apple.

Mirasol (Aji)

~Appearance: elongated, pointed and thin-fleshed with a tough skin;
3" to 4" long, 3/4" to 1¬" wide; shiny dark red or orange.

~Flavor: superb tropical fruit flavor with clear, direct heat.

~Firepower: naughty; a respectable "5" on the heat scale.

~Best Uses: in sauces, stews and corn dishes; pickled with carrots and
onions.

Note: the gualilo chile is a variety of the mirasol chile.

Vegetarian Gourmet
Spring 1995
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   02-18-95

