Title: Uskumru Dolmasi (Baked Mackerel with Pine Nut (see dirs.)
Categories: Middle east, Turkish, Fish, Dress/stuff
Yield: 6 servings
;with a fork
1/2 ts Coriander seeds
Black pepper; freshly ground
1/2 c  Parsley; finely chopped,
;prefer flat leaf
1/2 c  Dill, fresh; finely cut or
;1/4 cup dried dill weed
1/2 c  Dried currants
6 md Tomato; ripe, sliced 1/4
;inch thick
3    Lemon; sliced 1/8 inch thick
1 c  Cold water
6    Mackerel; whole, (about 12oz
;each)
1/2 c  Salt
2 ts Salt
1/2 c  Olive oil
1 tb Olive oil
1 c  Onion; finely chopped
1/2 c  Pine nuts; (pignolia)
1 c  Bread crumbs; soft, freshly
;made from homemade type
;white bread, pulverized in
;a blender or torn apart
Name;  Baked Mackerel with Pine Nut, Currant and Herb Stuffing

Clean and hollow out the mackerel in the following fashion:  Trim
of the protruding fins with scissors.  Then break the backbone at the
base of the tail by bending the tail sharply forward over the body.
On a flat surface, roll the fish back and forth under the palms of
your hands for a few minutes to loosen the backbone.  Turn the fish
over and cut down through the throat just behind the gills, leaving
the heat attached by a hinge of skin about 1/2 inch wide.  With a
long handled spoon, scoop out and discard the entrails.  Wash the
fish inside and out, then hold the body tightly and pull out the
backbone. Starting from the tail, gently press the fish with your
thumbs to push out as much flesh as possible, but keep the skin
intact and the heat attached so the fish can easily be reassembled.
Place the fish in a bowl or pan large enough to hold them
comfortably, sprinkle with 1/2 cup of the salt and cover them
completely with cold water.  Set aside at room temperature for about
30 minutes. Meanwhile place the fish meat in a sieve, wash under cold
running water, drain and pat dry with paper towels.  Set aside.
To make the stuffing, heat 1/2 cup of the olive oil in a heavy 12
inch skillet set over moderate heat.  Add the onions and, stirring
frequently, cook for 8 to 10 minutes, or until they are soft and
lightly browned. Stir in the pine nuts, reduce the heat to low, and
cook for another 2 or 3 minutes until they color lightly.  Add the
fish meat, crumbs, coriander, the remaining 2 teaspoons of salt and a
few grindings of pepper. Stirring frequently, cook over low heat for
about 5 minutes. Remove the pan from the heat, stir in the parsley,
dill and currants, and cool to room temperature.
Preheat the oven to 450 degrees (F).  With a pastry brush and the
remaining 1 tablespoon of olive oil, coat the bottom and side so a
flameproof baking dish large enough to hold the mackerel comfortably
in one layer.  Rinse the mackerel under cold running water, drain and
pat them completely dry inside and out with paper towels.  Using a
long handled spoon carefully fill each fish with about 1 cup of the
stuffing mixture. Pat the fish back into shape.
Arrange the mackerel side by side in the baking dish and garnish
the top of each fish with a row of alternating tomato and lemon
slices. Pour 1 cup of water around the mackerel and bring to a boil
over high heat. Bake in the middle of the oven for 25 minutes, or
until the fish feel firm.
Serve the fish at once directly from the baking dish or arranged on
a large heated platter, and garnish with additional lemon slices.

64 of 116

Source: Time Life Series: Middle Eastern Cooking "circa '69"

MMed by: earl.cravens@salata.com
Submitted By EARL CRAVENS   On   02-12-95

