Title: What your pizza says about you
Categories: Information, Pizza
Yield: 1 info
1    Pizza facts
WONDER what the Domino's people do when they're not rushing pizzas
all over creation? They take surveys, or they say they do. The
company's mighty public relations machine offers these observations:

Men wearing muscle shirts when answering the door order pepperoni
three times more often than any other topping.

People who have pierced noses, lips or eyebrows ask for a vegetarian
topping 23 percent more often than a meat topping. Those who have wind
chimes on the porch are four times more likely than the average to
want olives.

A recurring element is the correlation between pizza-eating and
TV-watching. Whatever day and time ''Roseanne" airs is always the
biggest half-hour of the week for meat-topped pizza orders. Since you
asked, the No. 1 pizza-ordering show (figured by comparing orders
during its time slot with weeks when the show doesn't air) is
"Melrose Place," which is also by far the leading show for
vegetable-topped pizzas. Pizza orders in the "Melrose Place" time
slot have gone up 14 percent since Heather Locklear joined the cast.

There's more: As you look back on 1994, trying to make sense of
Newt's rise and O.J.'s fall, you may want to consider these other
statistics from Domino's Since the Republicans won the election,
meat-topped pizza orders have risen 32 percent in the Washington
metropolitan area. Since Election Day, tipping of Domino's deliverers
by Washington women has fallen off by 10 percent (except during
"Melrose Place," when it climbs by 30 percent).

Since the election, tipping by House Republicans has been down 12
percent; tipping by House Democrats has been up 3 percent. Whenever
Newt Gingrich appears on national television, pizza orders to
Democratic offices go up 4 percent and go down 2 percent on the GOP
side.

And last, but not least The single greatest hour for pizza delivery in
national pizza history was the hour when O. J. Simpson was in the
white Ford Bronco on the L. A. freeways.

San Jose Mercury News, Food Section, 1/11/95 shared by Dorothy Hair
Submitted By DOROTHY HAIR   On   02-22-95

