Title: YOU CAN'T START TO EARLY IN MONITORING YOUR FAT INTAKE
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 text file
MMMMM-----------------------NO INGREDIENTS----------------------------
Did yo uknow that 25-30% of our children are obese? That is about a
60% increase over the past 20 years. 20-25% of all teenagers are
obese. That is about a 50% increase over the past 20 years. The
problem is that about 90-95% of those obese teenagers become obese
adults. The chances of an obese teenager attaining a normal weight as
an adult is about 1 in 30. Not only do obese, overweight children and
teenagers suffer from peer and adult discrimination, social
isolation, depression, low self esteem, and a negative body image,
but they also often suffer from irregular menstural cycles,
respiratory problems, hypertension, and a vast number of other health
related problems. I want you to be aware of the problems of obesity
in children, but I don't want you to go overboard. Don't eliminate
all the fat from their diets, even if they are overweight. Young
children require a diet that is about 30% fat. They need the fat in
their diets to achieve proper growth and developement. They also need
a diet filled with vitamins, minerals, fiber, vegetables, grains,
fruits and protein. To be quite frank, it would be virtually
impossible to cut all of the fat out of your child;s diet even if you
wanted to. The serious problem we are dealing with on a national
level is allowing our children to consume 40-50% of their total
caloric intake in fat. Any low fat modifications and substitutions
you use in preparing their food would be most beneficial. They will
be getting plenty of fat in their diets from other sources. Teach
your children about low fat eating at an early age, and they might
not grow up with the cholesterol and weight related problems we face
today.

Another suggestion I would like to make is to introduce your child to
exercise at an early age by setting an example yourself. I'm not
suggesting that you enroll them in a kids aerobics class. Children
usually get plenty of exercise on a daily basis with all the sports
and activities available to them. Instead, I am suggeating that you
let them be aware of YOUR exercise program and what YOU do to stay
fit. By setting a positive example with good eating habits and a
regular exercise program, you will be showing them a healthy life
style and onne they will want to adopt as they grow into young
adults. You can be very influential on your child at an early age.
Try to set a positive example for their sake and the sake of their
future.

Butter Busters by Pam Mycoskie ISBN 0-446-67040-5 Entered by Carolyn
Shaw 2-95
Submitted By CAROLYN SHAW   On   02-15-95

