Title: Shrimp Creole
Categories: Cajun, Fish/sea
Yield: 6 servings
1/2 ts Ground black pepper
1/2 ts Ground white pepper
1 tb Fresh thyme or 2 t dried
1 tb Fresh basil or 2 t dried
1 1/2 ts Sugar
5 ea Bay leaves
1 c  Green onions, chopped
1 c  Parsley, chopped
2 lb Fresh shrimp, heads off
1 qt Water
1/2 c  Vegetable oil
3 ea Med. yellow onions, chopped
2 ea Large bell peppers, chopped
5 ea Celery ribs, chopped fine
10 ea Lge. tomatoes, peeled&seeded
2 ts Salt
1 ts Ground red pepper
Peel and devein the shrimp.  Place heads (if you have them), and
peels in a small saucepan and add the water.  Bring to a slow boil
over medium-high heat and let boil slowly for 15-20 minutes.  Strain
and discard the heads and peels.
Place the oil in a Dutch oven or other large, heavy pot and place
over medium-high heat.  Add the onions, peppers, and celery and saute
stirring often, until the vegetables are very soft, about 45 minutes.
Stir in the tomatoes, salt, peppers, herbs, sugar, and shrimp stock
and return to simmer.  Reduce heat to medium and let simmer for
2 hours, stirring occasionally,  This is your creole sauce; it can
be prepared 1 or 2 days in advance and stored in the refrigerator
(I find the sauce is even better after sitting a couple of days in
the refrigerator).
When you are ready to serve, return the sauce to a simmer and
add the shrimp.  Cook until they turn pink, 5-7 minutes.  Stir
in the green onions and parsley and let cook for 1 minute more.
Serve on flat plates over beds of rice.
Serves 6-8.
SHRIMP AND HAM OR TASSO JAMBALAYA:
Prepare Shrimp Creole as above, but add about a pound of cubed ham
and a 4-ounce can of tomatoe sauce to the finished sauce and simmer
45 minutes more.  Meanwhile, boil or steam 2-3 cups raw rice.
Finish the sauce (which will be your jambalaya base) by adding
the shrimp, green onions, and parsley as above.  (If you are using
leftover Shrimp Creole, remove the shrimp and reheat the sauce,
add the ham and tomato sauce, and proceed as above.  Return the
shrimp to the pan at the end of cooking.)  Place the hot, cooked
rice in a large bowl, pour the jambalaya base over, mix well, and
serve.
You can also prepare this dish with sausage instead of ham.
From Alex Patout's "Cajun Home Cooking"

