Title: About Japanese Cuisine (Part 2)
Categories: Information, Japanese
Yield: 1 servings
No Ingredients Found
Nearly as ubiquitous as rice in the Japanese diet, but offering a
greater variety are noodles. The most common type of noodles are
brown noodles made from buckwheat flour, called sobais a round,
firm-textured noodle often served cold with dipping sauce or in a
bowl of hot broth. Another popular type of noodle is udon are thick,
white, wheat noodles, usually served in hot broth with other
ingredients. In the spring and summer, somen noodles are very
popular. A thin noodle made from a wheat dough to which sesame oil
has been added, somen noodles are available in a variety of colored
flavors. The noodles are usually cooked, and then served cold with a
dipping sauce and condiments.

Soybean products are another staple in Japanese cuisine. Soy sauce,
for example, is used as commonly as salt is in Western cooking. It
would be difficult to cook a Japanese meal without it. Equally
essential to the Japanese cook's store of ingredients is fermented
soba soybean paste, called miso. Miso resembles peanut butter in
itsconsistency and is made in a variety of colors and textures, each
with its own distinctive aroma and flavor. High in protein and B
vitamins, miso comes in three basic categories: rice miso, soybean
miso, and barley miso. Another important soy product, and one gaining
ever-increasing presence on Western menus, is tofu. Also known as
bean curd, tofu is a white, custard-like food made from soymilk
processed from soybeans. Tofu is extolled by nutritionists and
vegetarians alike as an excellent meatless source of protein. Western
dishes tend to be categorized by the main ingredients. For example, a
common Western cookbook is divided into sections such as Meats and
Poultry; Vegetables; Pasta, Rice, and Grains, etc. Japanese food, on
the other hand, is categorized by the method of preparation. When
planning a meal, the Western chef will strive fora salad, a main
dish, and side dishes that go well together and satisfy the four
basic food groups. A chef of Japanese cuisine seeksa variety of
dishes from the different cooking categories. One of the most common
of these styles of cooking is called nimono. miso. This category
includes dishes made by gently boiling or simmering ingredients such
as vegetables, fish, or meat in a seasoned broth. Yakimonois, quite
simply, food that is prepared by broiling, usually over a charcoal
fire. Tempura, food deep-fried in batter, belongs to the group of
agemono, or fried things. It is one of the most common Japanese foods
in North America. The nabemono category consists of hearty dishes
that are cooked in a large pot, usually right at the table. Nabemono
contains meat, fish, vegetables, tofu,and perhaps some noodles.
Sukiyaki, also very popular in the West,belongs to the nabemono
group. Tsukemono, also known as Japanese pickles, are pickled
vegetables that can be found with most Japanese meals. Ohitashi are
boiled green vegetables served with soy sauce and topped with sesame
seeds or katsuobushi (dried bonito fish shavings). Aemono, made up of
cooked vegetables and seafood, are served cold and tossed with
various sauces. As you can see, Japanese food comes in a wide variety
of styles. Upon sitting down to a traditional Japanese meal, however,
one is likely to find the utensils and serving vessels as numerous
and varied as the dishes themselves. The cook seeks to serve his or
her creations in well-designed vessels that make an appropriate
background for their colors and textures. The goal is to achieve
harmony between the color of the food and that of the dish in which
it is served. Serving the food, like cooking it, is considered an
art. It has also been said that, as a rule, round foods should be
served in square vessels, and square shaped foods should be served in
round vessels. Perhaps no other country uses such a wide variety of
tableware as Japan. Japanese cuisine is one of the most healthiest
and visually appealing foods in the world. Today, modern science is
shedding new light on the nutritional and healing value of Japanese
traditional foods. With Keiko's quick and easy recipes you can surely
add this exceptionally wholesome and tasty food to your daily
repertoire of favorite dishes.

Submitted By SAM LEFKOWITZ   On   08-17-95

