Title: Baking Instructions (Part I of III)
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 info/help
No ingredients
BAKING TECHNIQUES:

SEPARATING EGGS:  Tap the side of the egg on the edge of a bowl
or cup to crack the shell. Pass the yolk from shell to shell,
dropping the white into a cup before adding it to the other whites
called for in the recipe. If a little yolk gets into the whites,
scoop it out with part of the shell. The presence of any yolk in the
whites can ruin them.
BEATING EGG WHITES:  Egg whites may be beaten with an electric
mixer, rotary egg beater or ballon style whisk.  Bowl and beater must
be clean and dry because even a small amount of grease or oil can
prevent the whites from whipping properly. Beat the whites slowly,
gradually increasing the speed as they begin to foam. Beat only until
they hold shape or point. CAUTION: Do not beat egg whites ahead of
time.  They should be folded in immediately after they are beaten.
WHIPPING CREAM:  Cream may be whipped with electric mixer,
rotary eggbeater, or ballon style whisk.  Cream, bowl and beaters
should be very cold for best results. To avoid spattering, beat
slowly, gradually increasing speed as cream thickens.  CAUTION:  Be
careful not to over beat as you will end up with butter and
buttermilk. It is best not to whip cream too far ahead of time or it
will separate slightly. If this happens, mix briefly with a wire
whisk.
FOLDING INGREDIENTS:  Many recipes call for folding beaten egg
whites or whipped cream into another mixture.  Both egg whites and
whipped cream contain air in the form of many small bubbles.  Folding
rather than mixing is done to retain the air in the mixture. Start
with a large bowl containing the heavier mixture. Using a circular
motion with a rubber spatula, cut down through center of mixture
across bottom of bowl, lifting up and over. After each fold, rotate
the bowl slightly in order to incorporate the ingredients as evenly
as possible. Fold in remaining egg whites or whipped until uniformly
but lightly combined.

MEASURING DRY INGREDIENTS:  Use the standard graded sets of
four: 1/4 cup, 1/3 cup, 1/2 cup, and 1 cup.  Spoon dry ingredients
into measure and level off with a metal spatula.

MEASURING LIQUID INGREDIENTS:  Use a glass or plastic measuring
cup with a pour spout.  With the cup sitting on a flat surface, read
it at eye level.  Fill to exactly to line indicated.

WORDS TO BAKE BY:

BEAT:  to thoroughly combine ingredients and incorporate air
with a rapid regular motion.  This may be done with a wire whisk,
rotary eggbeater or an electric mixer.
BLEND:  To thoroughly combine two or more ingredients.
CHILL:  To refrigerate until cold.
CREAM:  To combine two or more ingredients by beating until the
mixture is light and well blended.
CUT IN:  To combine solid fat with dry ingredients by using a
pastry blender or two knives in a scissors motion until particles are
of the desired size.
DRIZZLE:  To sprinkle drops of glaze or icing over food in a
random manner from tines of a fork or the end of a spoon.
FULL ROLLING BOIL:  To cook a mixture until it appears to rise
in the pan.  The surface billows rather than just bubbles.
GLAZE:  To coat with a liquid, a thin icing or a jelly either
before or after food is cooked.
MIXING JUST UNTIL MOISTENED:  Combining dry ingredients with
liquid ingredients until dry ingredients are thoroughly moistened but
mixture is still lumpy.
PACKED BROWN SUGAR:  Brown sugar pressed into measuring cup
with a spoon.  Sugar will hold its shape when cup is inverted.
SIMMER:  To cook in liquid just below the boiling point.
Bubbles form slowly just below the surface.
SOFT PEAKS:  Egg whites or cream beaten to the stage where
mixture forms soft rounded peaks when beaters are removed.
STIFF PEAKS:  Egg whites or cream beaten to the stage where
mixture holds stiff pointed peaks when beaters are removed.

(Continued in Part II)
:
Submitted By STEVE ZIELINSKI   On   08-08-95

