Title: CAJUN CABBAGE WITH ANDOUILLE OR SMOKED SAUSAGE
Categories: Cajun/creol, Hot/spicy, Vegetables, Sausage
Yield: 8 servings
2 1/4    Tsp.salt
1 1/2    Tsp.sweet paprika
1 ts White pepper
1/2 ts Onion powder
1/2 ts Garlic powder
1/2 ts Ground red pepper
-(preferably cayenne)
1/2 ts Black pepper
1/2 ts Dried thyme leaves
1/4 ts Dried sweet basil leaves
4 tb Unsalted butter
2 c  Julienned onions (see Note)
10    Packed cups shredded cabbage
1 c  Basic Chicken Stock (recipe
-follows)
2    Bay leaves, halved
3 c  Unpeeled julienned apples
-(see Note)
3 tb Dark brown sugar
1 lb Andouille smoked sausage
-(preferred) or
Any other good pure smoked
-pork sausage
As Polish sausage
-(kielbasa), cut into
1/2    Inch pieces
Makes 8 ( 1/2 cup) appetizer servings.

Seasoning Mix (or substitute CAJUN MAGIC VEGETABLE MAGIC)

NOTE: Julienned strips should be  1/8xl/8x2 inches.

In a small bowl, combine the seasoning mix ingredients; mix well.Set
aside.

Melt the butter in a 4-quart saucepan over high heat.  Add the onions
and saute about 2 minutes, stirring occasionally.Add the cabbage,
then 1/2 cup of the stock, the bay leaves and the seasoning mix; stir
well.Cook 5 minutes, stirring occasionally.Stir in the apples and
cook 15 minutes, stirring occasion ally.Stir in the sugar and the
remaining 1/2 cup stock; mix well. Cook about 2 minutes, stirring
occasionally.Add the andouille and cook and stir for 5 minutes more.
Remove from heat, discard bay leaves and serve immediately.

BASIC CHICKEN STOCK

10 cups cold water (see Note) 1 1/2 to 2 lbs. chicken backs, necks,
giblets (excluding liver) and/or bones 1 medium onion, unpeeled and
quartered 1 rib celery 1 large clove garlic, unpeeled and quartered

NOTE: Always start with cold water enough to cover the other stock
ingredients.

Place all the ingredients in a large saucepan; bring to a boil over
high heat, then gently simmer at least 4 hours, preferably 8,
replenishing the water as needed to keep about 1 quart of liquid in
the pan. Strain, cool and refrigerate until ready to use. (Note:
Remember, if you are short on time, that using a stock simmered 20 or
30 minutes is far better than using just water in any recipe.)

Makes about  1 quart.

