Title: Chicken In Fragrant Yogurt Sauce (Dahi Murgh)
Categories: Indian, Poultry, Main dish
Yield: 6 servings
1 ts White poppy seeds
1 tb Olive oil
3 c  Onion -- thinly sliced
1 tb Ginger root -- chopped
2 ts Garlic -- chopped
1 ts Red pepper powder
2 tb Coriander leaves -- chopped
1 c  Plain yogurt
6    Boneless skinless chicken
Breast halves
1/2 ts Salt
In a small skillet dry roast the poppy seeds over moderate heat until
aromatic.  Let cool.  Grind to a powder in a spice grinder or
blender. Heat 2 tsp oil in a non-stick skillet.  Add the onions and
stir for 2 minutes. Add 2 tbsp water.  Turn th heat to low.  Cook,
stirring, until the onions are light brown, about 8 minutes.  Add the
ginger and garlic and cook for another 2 minutes.  Add the red pepper
powder, ground poppy seeds and 1 tbsp of the coriander leaves.  Stir
for 30 seconds.  Let cool slightly. Put the mixture and 1/4 cup water
in a food processor or blender and process to a smooth paste.  Add
the yogurt and process long enough to blend. Do not overprocess.  Set
aside.  Heat the remaining tsp of oil in a large nonstick skillet
over moderate heat.  Add the chicken breasts and saute on each side
until they are lightly browned.  Add the yogurt mixture and bring
ALMOST to a boil.  Reduce the heat and simmer, covered, until the
chicken is tender and no longer pink inside, about 8 to 10 minutes.
Stir occasionally during cooking to make sure the sauce is not
sticking to the pan and burning. The yogurt sauce should have
thickened to a velvety, smooth consistency that just forms a glaze on
the chicken. If the sauce is too thin, remove the cover and boil
until the sauce reduces. If it is too thick, add skim milk tbsp by
tbsp until the sauce is the correct consistency. Sprinkle remaining
coriander leaves over the top. Flavors reach their full peak when
prepared 1 to 2 days ahead. Reheat gently, adding skim milk if
needed. 186 calories and 4 grams fat.

: Indian Cooking Light
Recipe By

Date: 07-30-95 (20:30) (159)
From: Meg Antczak
Fido: Cooking

