Title: Chicken and Red Cabbage Sausage
Categories: Sausage, Vegetables
Yield: 1 servings
1 sm Onion, minced
1/4 c  Olive oil
6 c  Finely shredded red cabbage
-(about 1 head)
4 ea Bay leaves
1 1/2 c  Dry red wine
2 c  Tawny Port
1 ea Whole skinless boneless
-chicken breast (about 1/2
-pound)
3 lg Egg whites
3 c  Heavy cream
4 qt Chicken broth for poaching
-the sausages
Olive oil for sauteing the
-sausages if desired
In a kettle cook the onion in the oil over moderate heat, stirring,
until it is golden, stir in the cabbage, and cook the mixture,
stirring occasionally, until the cabbage is softened.  Add the bay
leaves, the red wine, Port, and salt and pepper to taste and boil the
mixture, stirring occasionally, for 10 minutes, or until the liquid
is evaporated. Discard the bay leaves and let the mixture cool. In a
meat grinder fitted with the fine blade grind the chicken (or,
alternatively, chop it fine) and transfer it to a food processor.
With the motor running add the egg whites, 1 at a time, puree the
mixture, and add the cream in a slow stream. Season the chicken
mixture with salt and pepper. In a large bowl set in a larger bowl of
ice and cold water stir together the chicken mixture and the cabbage
mixture.  Arrange 2 heaping Tsp. of the mixture lengthwise down the
middle of an 8 inch length of Saran Wrap, roll it into a 4 inch long
sausage shape, using the Saran Wrap as a guide, and roll up the Saran
Wrap tightly. Tie the ends of the sausage with kitchen string or with
twist-ties and make more sausages with the remaining mixture in the
same manner, transferring them as they are made to a baking sheet. In
a large kettle bring the broth to a simmer, in it poach the sausages
in batches, turning them once carefully, for 20 to 25 minutes, or
until they become firm and opaque, transferring them as they are
cooked to a large bowl of ice and cold water to stop the cooking, and
let them cool. Discard the kitchen string and the saran Wrap.  In a
skillet saute the sausages in the oil over moderately high heat for 2
minutes on each side, or until they are browned well, or ,
alternatively, on a baking sheet heat the sausages in a preheated 325
oven for 8 minutes, or until they are hot. Makes about 30 sausages.
From: Gourmet/ December 1991 The Willard Inter-Continental

Submitted By PAT STOCKETT   On   08-10-95

