Title: Chicken Do-Piaza
Categories: Main dish, Indian, Poultry, Vegetables
Yield: 4 servings
2 1/2 lb Chicken pieces; skin removed
1 lg Onion; coarsely chopped
1 ea 1-inch cube root ginger;
-peeled and coarsely chopped
3 cl To 4 cloves garlic; peeled
-and coarsely chopped
4 tb Cooking oil
1 ts Ground turmeric
1 ts Ground coriander
1 ts Ground cumin
1/4 ts To 1/2 tspn Chili powder
1 sm Can tomatoes
3/4 c  Warm water
2 ea Cinnamon sticks; each 2
-inches long; broken up
4 ea Cardamoms; split open on the
-top
4 ea Whole cloves
2 ea Dried bay leaves; crumpled
1 1/4 ts Salt or to taste
2 tb (level) ghee or unsalted
-butter
1 lg Onion; finely sliced
1 tb Coriander leaves; chopped
-(optional)
Cut each chicken breast into 3 pieces.  If you are using legs,
seperate leg from thigh.  Wash and dry on paper towel.
Place the chopped onion, ginger and garlic in a blender or food
processor and puree to a smooth paste, add a little water if
necessary, to facilitate blade movement.
Heat the oil over medium heat, and add the blended ingredients.
Stir and fry for 4 to 5 minutes.
Add the turmeric, coriander, cumin, and chili powder.  Fry for 4
to 5 minutes, stirring frequently.  During this time, from the can of
tomatoes, add 1 tablespoon juice at a time to prevent the spices from
sticking to the pan.  When you have used up all the tomato juice, add
the chicken and fry it over medium-high heat until the chicken has
changed color.
Add the water, cinnamon, cardomom, cloves, bay leaves, salt, and
the whole tomatoes.  Bring to the boil, cover and simmer until the
chicken is tender and the sauce is fairly thick (about 25 minutes).
Cook uncovered, if necessary, to thicken the sauce.
Heat the ghee or butter and fry the sliced onion for 5 minutes.
Add the onions along with the ghee to the chicken.  Remove from heat
and stir in the coriander leaves.

Preparation: 15 minutes.  Cooking: 45 minutes.

__The Complete Indian Cookbook_  Mridula Baljekar, 1993 Smithmark
Publishers  ISBN 0-8317-1487-5  Typos by Jeff Pruett
Submitted By JEFF PRUETT   On   08-12-95

