Title: Chinese Pot Stickers With Sesame Soy Dipping Sauce
Categories: Meats
Yield: 30 servings
10 oz Spinach; chopped
1 lb Ground pork
1/2 c  Green onion; minced
3 tb Fresh cilantro; minced
2 tb Soy sauce
2 tb Dry sherry
1 tb Oriental sesame oil
4 lg Garlic cloves; minced
-4 to 5 teaspoons
1 pk Round pot sticker wrappers
-at least 35, 3 to 3-1/2"
-in diameter
1 ea Egg white; lightly beaten
1/2 c  Vegetable or peanut oil
-divided
2 c  Chicken broth or stock
-divided
MMMMM-----------------------HOT CHILE OIL----------------------------
2 ts Dried red chile flakes
1/2 c  Peanut oil
1 tb Chile garlic sauce; optional
MMMMM------------------SESAME SOY DIPPING SAUCE-----------------------
1/2 c  Soy sauce
2 tb Chinese black vinegar OR
1 tb Distilled white vinegar PLUS
1 tb Worcestershire sauce
3 ea Garlic cloves; minced
-1 tablespoon
1 ts Fresh ginger; minced
1 ts Oriental sesame oil
If using thawed frozen spinach, squeeze all the moisture from the
spinach, then combine with pork, green onions, cilantro, soy sauce,
sherry, ginger, sesame oil and garlic; mix filling well.

TO ASSEMBLE POT STICKERS Spoon 2 teaspoons of filling on each wrapper.
Brush edges of the wrapper with egg white. Bring edges of wrapper up
over filling and press together. Crimp edges with a wide tined fork
or your fingers.
Lay the dumplings on a flat surface, crimped edges up, to form a flat
bottom. Repeat with remaining filling and wrappers.
If making ahead, at this point the pot stickers my be placed on a
baking sheet, covered lightly and frozen. When frozen, pack in
airtight packaging and freeze up to 6 monthes. When ready to serve,
just proceed with the recipe, no thawing is necessary.

TO COOK THE POT STICKERS Heat 2 tablespoons vegetable oil in a 12 inch
heavy skillet over medium high heat. Add as many pot stickers as you
cn get in the pan without crowding; cook until golden brown on the
bottom.
Add 1/2 cup broth and cover the pan immediately. (Be careful, A major
amount of splattering and sizzling occurs as soon as the broth comes
in contact with the oil.) Reduce the heat to medium low; cook the
dumplings until most of the liquid has been absorbed and the pot
stickers are nicely plumped and a deep golden brown on the bottom.
Remove from the heat and keep them warm in a 200 degree F oven while
you use the remaining oil and broth to cook the remaining pot
stickers in the same manner.
To serve, provide guests with individual small dishes containing hot
chile oil and the Sesame Soy Dipping Sauce.

TO MAKE YOUR OWN HOT CHILE OIL Saute 2 teaspoons of dried red chile
flakes in 1/2 cup of peanut oil for 3 minutes. Remove from heat and
let stand until cool. If desired, stir in 1 tablesppon prepared chile
garlic sauce.

SESAME SOY DIPPING SAUCE In a small container, combine soy sauce,
vinegar, garlic, ginger and oil.
Makes about 2/3 cup.

Source: Oregonian FoodDay Typos by Dorothy Flatman 1995
Submitted By DOROTHY FLATMAN   On   08-02-95

