Title: Corn and Roasted Poblano Soup
Categories: Soup/stew, Tex/mexican
Yield: 8 servings
2 qt Milk
2 tb Cumin seeds
2    Bay leaves
Sprig fresh rosemary -=OR=-
1/4 ts Dried rosemary
1/4 c  Olive oil -=OR=-
4 tb Unsalted butter
2 lg Onions; diced
2 ts ;Salt
4    To 6 cloves garlic; minced
2 ts Ground cumin
8 c  Fresh or canned whole-kernel
-- corn
6    Poblano chiles; roasted,
-- peeled, seeded & diced *
1    Bunch chives; thinly sliced
-- on diagonal for garnish
* Roast chiles over a gas flame or on a tray under the broiler.  Keep
turning so that the skin is evenly charred.  Transfer the charred
peppers to a plastic bag, tie the top closed, and let steam until
cool to the touch, about 15 minutes.  Pull off the charred skin by
hand, then dip the peppers briefly in water to remove any blackened
bits.

1) Combine milk, cumin seeds, bay leaves, and rosemary in a medium
saucepan.  Place over low heat and bring nearly to a simmer.  (Do not
boil.)  Remove from heat and let sit 20 minutes.

2) Heat olive oil in a large saucepan or stockpot over medium heat.
Cook onions with salt until golden brown, stirring frequently, 15 to
20 minutes. Add garlic and ground cumin and cook, stirring
frequently, for 5 minutes; stir in corn and diced chiles; continue
cooking over low heat 5 more minutes.

3) Using a fine strainer, strain the infused milk into the corn and
chile mixture.  Bring to a very slow simmer over low heat.  Simmer
gently for 15 minutes.

4) Pour one third of the soup into a food processor or blender and
puree; stir back into soup pot.

Serve hot in shallow soup bowls, sprinkled with chives.

NOTES:  Corn and roasted poblanos are one of those sweet and spicy
combinations that give Mexican cooking its lovely complexity.
Poblanos' heat can vary widely according to season, so reduce the
quantity if yours are from a hot crop.  They are not meant to
overpower the delicate corn.

Recipe by Mary Sue Milliken and Susan Feniger, Co-Owners Border Grill,
Santa Monica, California; Adapted from their book "Mesa Mexicana"

Published in Home Magazine, June 1995

typed and posted by teri chesser  Aug 95
Submitted By TERI CHESSER   On   08-16-95

