Title: Double Berry Vanilla-Cream Pie
Categories: Pie/tart, Fruit, Desserts
Yield: 8 servings
4    Serving-size package regular
-vanilla pudding mix
1 3/4 c  Milk
1/2 c  Dairy sour cream
10 oz Package frozen strawberries
-in syrup, thawed
1 tb Cornstarch
5 c  Medium strawberries
1 c  Blueberries
From : Sallie Krebs, Sat 06 Aug 95 04:00, Area: COOKING

(Featured on this issue's cover.) The berries top a layer of
tangy-sweet sour cream pudding in an almond crust.

Toasted Almond Crust (recipe follows) or pastry for a single-crust
9-inch pie Sweetened whipped cream

1. Prepare pastry for crust. On a lightly floured surface, roll out
to a 12 inch circle. Transfer to a 9-inch pie plate.

2. Trim 1/2 inch from edge of pie plate; fold under extra pastry and
flute edge. Prick bottom and sides of crust. Bake in a 450-F oven for
10 to 12 minutes. Cool.

3. For cream filling, cook vanilla pudding mix according to package
directions, except use the 1 3/4 cups milk for the liquid. Cool
pudding for 10 minutes. Fold in the sour cream. Spread into bottom of
the cooled piecrust. Cover with plastic wrap; chill for 1 hour or
till firm.

4. For glaze, puree frozen strawberries in blender. In small
saucepan, stir puree into cornstarch. Cook and stir till thickened
and bubbly. Cook 2 minutes more. Remove from heat. Cover surface with
plastic wrap. Cool to room temperature.

5. To assemble pie, arrange half of the fresh strawberries, stem ends
down, over cream layer in piecrust. Sprinkle with half of the
blueberries. Drizzle 1/3 of the glaze over the berries.

6. Arrange the remaining berries over this layer. Drizzle remaining
glaze over berries. Chill for 2 to 4 hours. Serve immediately with
whipped cream.

Makes 8 servings.

TOASTED ALMOND CRUST:

In a mixing bowl, combine 1 1/4 cups all-purpose flour, 1 tablespoon
sugar and 1/4 teaspoon salt. Cut in 1/3 cup shortening or lard till
pieces are the size of small peas. Stir in 1/4 cup finely chopped
toasted almonds. Sprinkle 1 tablespoon water over part of the
mixture; gently toss with a fork. Push to side of bowl. Repeat using
2 to 3 tablespoons more water till all is moistened. Form dough into
a ball.

Nutrition Note: You can lower the fat in this fresh-fruit pie without
anyone noticing by using non-fat dairy sour cream instead of the
regular sour cream, as well as 1 1/2 cups skim milk and
reduced-calorie pudding mix. Source: Midwest Living, August 1995

