Title: General Tso's Chicken #1
Categories: Chinese, Main dish, Poultry
Yield: 4 servings
1    Egg
1 tb Cornstarch
1 lb Boned, Skinned Chicken
Thigh or Breast, cut
-into 2 inch chunks
Vegetable Oil
16 sm Dried Chiles
1    Garlic Clove, Minced
1/4 ts Grated Fresh Ginger
4    Green Onions, cut
-diagonally into 1" pieces
MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
4 ts Cornstarch
4 ts Sugar
4 ts Rice Vinegar
6 tb Soy Sauce
1/4 c  Chicken Broth
1/4 c  Water
1/4 c  Dry Sherry Wine
Quoting from the article the recipe was contained in, "The dish is not
difficult to make and can be prepared partially in advance. The crunch
texture of the chicken pieces is achieved by coating them with egg and
cornstarch, then deep-frying them twice; once to cook them through;
and once at a higher temperature to make them brown and crisp. The
velvety sweet-sour sauce, which is combined with the chicken at the
last minute, provides a wonderful counterpoint. The amount of heat is
your option. Sixteen small dried red peppers provide a moderate
amount of heat. Add more or less to taste, but be careful not to bite
into one. They are dynamite!" Whisk together thoroughly the egg and
cornstarch. Add pieces of chicken, turning to coat evenly.  In wok or
deep-fat fryer, heat 2 inches of oil to 350F.  Fry chicken, a few
pieces at a time until lightly browned and just cooked through.
Drain on paper towels. Combine sauce ingredients, mixing well.  Set
aside. (The chicken may be fried the first time up to one hour in
advance; the sauce can be combined several days in advance and kept
covered in the refrigerator.) In frying pan, heat 1 TB of oil until
hot. Add chili peppers and cook until blackened.  Add onions and
stir-fry about one minute. Add garlic and ginger, cooking briefly,
but do not brown. Remove from heat. Reheat deep oil to 400F.  Return
chicken to fat, in batches, and cook until crisp and golden brown.
Drain on paper towels. Re-stir sauce and add to frying pan with
onions and peppers. Cook, stirring until thickened and bubbly.  Add
chicken and cook, stirring, until well coated and heated through.
Serve over rice. Makes 3 to 4 servings.

