Title: Granny Smith Sour Cream Omelet
Categories: Breakfast, Fruit
Yield: 4 servings
5 tb Margarine (not diet)
2 1/2 c  Onions -- sliced
2 lg Granny Smith apples
8 lg Eggs
3 tb Heavy cream
Salt -- to taste
Black pepper -- to taste
Ground nutmeg -- to taste
4 tb Sour cream
1. In a heavy skillet, melt 2 tablespoons margarine and add the onions
which have been sliced thin and separated into rings. Stir to cover
with the margarine. Cover the pan and cook over low heat for 10
minutes or until onions are translucent. 2. Wash apples and core but
do not peel. Slice into 1/2 to 3/4-inch crescents. When onions are
done, transfer to a plate and keep warm. Wipe out the skillet and add
1 tablespoon margarine and melt. Add the apple slices; saute over
medium flame until browned, about 1 minute. Turn slices and brown
other side. Do not overcook. Turn off heat, add onion and combine;
set aside. 3. To prepare eggs for cooking, place 8 egg yolks and 6
egg whites into large bowl. Add the cream, salt and pepper to your
taste and beat this mixture lightly with fork. Set aside. 4. Place
the remaining 2 egg whites in a bowl and, with a mixer, beat on high
speed until whites are stiff but not dry. Blend the egg yolk mixture
again to be sure it is not separated, then fold in the beaten whites.
DO NOT beat in, only fold in gently until thoroughly blended. 5.
Using an omelet pan, melt 1 tablespoon margarine over medium heat.
When margarine foams, add half the egg mixture. As eggs begin to set,
use a fork to pull edges gently towards center, allowing uncooked
eggs to flow outward. Cook until eggs are brown on bottom but still
moist on top, 4-5 minutes. 6. Spread half the apple-onion mixture on
one-half of the omelet. Use a spatula to fold other half over the
apple mixture. Place on serving plate and keep warm in oven while
preparing the remaining omelet. When second omelet is prepared,
divide both among 4 serving plates. Top each with a tablespoon of
sour cream and a very light sprinkling of fresh ground nutmeg. Serve
immediately.

: Jo Anne Merrill
Recipe By

