Title: Honey-Fried Chicken with Thyme-Mint Cream Sauce
Categories: Poultry
Yield: 4 servings
1    Chicken (3-3.5 lb)
1/2 c  Honey
2 tb Raspberry or other fruit
-vinegar
1/2 c  Flour
2 tb Whole-wheat flour
2 ts Cayenne pepper
2    Eggs
1/4 c  Buttermilk
1 c  Vegetable oil
Salt
Freshly ground black pepper
Thyme-Mint Cream Sauce
In his book "The New Texas Cuisine" (Doubleday), Stephen Pyles writes
that if he had to choose one last meal, it would be this fried
chicken. Craig Claiborne liked it so much when he tasted it at Routh
Street Cafe, the Dallas restaurant Pyles once owned, that he included
the recipe in his book "Craig Claiborne's Southern Cooking" (without
crediting Pyles).

Cut chicken into six serving pieces and place in a mixing bowl,
reserving backbone, neck and wings for stock. Stir honey and vinegar
together and pour over chicken. Marinate at least 2 hours, mixing
occasionally.

In separate mixing bowl, combine flour, whle-wheat flour and cayenne.
Set aside.

In another mixing bowl, whisk together eggs and buttermilk.

In large skillet, heat oil over medium-high heat to exactly 300'F.
(Be sure to use reliable cooking thermometer. Honey coating on
chicken will burn if oil is too hot. Too cool, chicken will be
greasy.)

Remove chicken from marinade and drain on paper towels. Dip chicken
pieces in egg wash, season with salt and pepper to taste and dredge in
flour-cayenne mixture, coating thoroughly. When all chicken pieces are
coated, strain marinade and reserve 1 tablespoon for sauce.

Gently drop dark meat chicken pieces in hot oil and cook until
browned on one side, 5-6 minutes. Turn pieces over. Add white meat
pieces and continue cooking, adjusting heat so chicken browns evenly
without burning. Turn pieces again. Remove pieces as they become
browned on both sides and tender when pierced with fork. Dark meat
should cook 15-18 minutes total, white meat 10-12 minutes. Transfer
chicken to 200'F. oven and keep warm while making sauce. Serve with
Thyme-Mint Cream Sauce.

Each serving, with sauce, contains about: 1,094 calories; 246
milligrams sodium; 237 milligrams cholesterol; 85 grams fat; 51 grams
carbohydrates; 38 grams protein; 0.35 gram fiber.
Submitted By MICHAEL ORCHEKOWSKI   On   08-07-95

