Title: Indonesian Chicken Noodle Soup
Categories: Soup/stew, Poultry, Pasta/rice
Yield: 4 servings
4 c  Chicken broth
3 c  Water
4 lg Flat-leaf parsley sprigs
2    Fresh cilantro sprigs, roots
-and stems lightly crushed
1    Whole chicken breast, rinsed
-well
3 md Waxy potatoes, peeled and
-cut into 1/2" cubes
1/4 lb Shallots
4 lg Garlic cloves
3 tb Olive oil
1 tb Fresh ginger, peeled/minced
1 ts Ground cardamom
1    Cinnamon stick (3")
Coarse salt
Freshly ground pepper
2 c  Cooked angel hair pasta
3    Hard-boiled eggs, quartered
1/4 c  Fresh cilantro leaves
1    Lime, thinly sliced
Combine chicken broth, water, parsley and cilantro sprigs in
medium-sized soup pot. Bring to boil. Add chicken breast. Reduce heat
and simmer, partially covered, until chicken is just cooked through,
about 30 minutes. Do not boil. Remove chicken and let cool slightly.
Shred meat from bones in 1 1/2 x 1/2" pieces, discarding skin and
bones. Set aside covered.

Strain broth and return to pot. Add potatoes to broth.

Cut half shallots and half garlic lengthwise into very thin slices.
Heat oil in medium-sized non-stick skillet over low heat. Add sliced
shallots and garlic and cook stirring, until lightly golden and
crisp, about 10 minutes. Remove with slotted spoon to paper towels to
drain. Reserve for garnish.

Finely mince remaining shallots, garlic and ginger together with
cardamom. Add to skillet and cook uncovered, stirring over low heat
until aromatic, 3-4 minutes. Add shallot mixture to broth along with
cinnamon stick and salt and pepper to taste. Cook covered over medium
heat until potatoes are tender, 12-15 minutes. Remove potatoes from
broth with slotted spoon.

To assemble, lay out shallow soup or pasta bowls. Arrange chicken,
pasta, eggs and potatoes in section in each bowl, to make 4 wedges.

Heat broth until piping hot. Adjust seasonings to taste. Discard
cinnamon stick. Ladle broth into bowls. Sprinkle with fried shallots,
fried garlic and cilantro. Float lime slice in center of each bowl.

Each serving contains about: 522 calories; 949 milligrams sodium; 204
milligrams cholesterol; 22 grams fat; 50 grams carbohydrates; 30 grams
protein; 0.76 gram fiber.
Submitted By MICHAEL ORCHEKOWSKI   On   08-06-95

