Title: Krista Kern's Gingerbread Ice Cream Sandwiches
Categories: Newspaper, Desserts
Yield: 8 servings
1/2 c  Boiling water
1 c  Molasses; dark, unsulphured
1 ts Baking soda
2 1/2 c  Flour
1 tb Baking powder
1 tb Powdered ginger
1/2 ts Ground cinnamon
1/4 ts Ground cloves
1/2 ts Salt; scant
ds White pepper
1/2 c  Unsalted butter; softened
1 c  Brown sugar; dark, packed
1 lg Egg
2 pt Vanilla or peach ice cream;
. the best quality
1 lb Jar caramel sauce
. heated until warm
4 lg Peaches; peeled & sliced
Mint sprigs for garnish
Line the bottoms of 2 8-inch square cake pans with parchment paper and
spray with nonstick vegetable cooking spray.  Combine water, molasses
and baking soda in a mixing bowl and mix well.  Set aside.

Sift together the flour, baking powder, ginger, cinnamon, cloves,
salt and pepper in a bowl.  Set aside.

Beat the butter in an electric mixer set on medium speed until creamy.
Gradually add brown sugar and beat until incorporated.  Beat in the
egg. Reduce the speed to slow and add 1/3 of the dry ingredients to
the batter, then half of the liquid ingredients, 1/3 of the dry
ingredients, the remaining liquid, and finally the remaining dry
ingredients.

Divide the batter evenly and pour into the prepared pans.  Bake at
350øF on the center rack until a tester comes out clean and the cake
springs back when touched, about 25 to 30 minutes.  Remove the pans
from the oven and cool 15 minutes.  Then unmold.  Remove the
parchment paper. Cool completely.

When the pans are cool, clean 1 pan and line with parchment paper.
Spread softened ice cream in an even layer in the pan and freeze
until firm.

To serve, unmold the ice cream and remove the parchment paper.  Place
the ice cream between gingerbread layers.  Trim the edges as needed.
Cut layered cake into 4 squares.  Cut each square into 2 triangles
for a total of 8 small triangle slices.  Place on serving plates.
Drizzle each with warm caramel sauce.  Garnish with fruit slices and
mint sprigs.

NOTE:  I use Mrs. Richardson's Butterscotch Caramel Sauce.

**  Washington Times - Food section - 26 July 1995  ** Posted by The
WEE Scot  --  Paul MacGregor
Submitted By PAUL MACGREGOR   On   08-17-95

