Title: Mary Tyler Moore's Simple Applesauce Souffle and Topping
Categories: Diabetic, Cheese/eggs, Main dish
Yield: 8 servings
4 sl White bread;
1 c  Cheddar cheese;
1 cn Unsweetened applesauce;
-(16-oz) diet delight
2 ts Fructose;
1/2 ts Ground cinnamon;
1/4 ts Ground nutmeg;
1 ts Vanilla extract;
1/4 ts Salt;
4    Eggs; lightly beaten with
-a fork
2 c  Milk;
MMMMM--------------------------TOPPING-------------------------------
1 cn Unsweetened applesauce;
-(16-oz) Diet Delight
1/2 ts Vanilla extract;
1 tb Fructose;
SOUFFLE: Spread the bread with butter or corn oil margarine using 1
ts on each slice.  Slice the bread in 1/4" cubes on cookie sheet and
put it in a 350 degree oven for about 30 minutes or until bread cubes
are toasted golden brown in color.  Remove the bread from the oven
and cool it to room temperature.  Put 1/2 if the toasted bread cubes
in a 6x10 or 8x8 flat glass baking dish.  Sprinkle 1/2 the grated
cheese on top of the bread. Put the rest of the bread on top of the
cheese and then put the remaining cheese on top.  Mix all the other
ingredients together in a big bowl and pour the mixture into the
baking dish on top to the bread and cheese. Cover the baking dish and
put it in the refrigerator over night. Take the dish out of the
refrigerator 2 hours before cooking it. To cook your souffle, put the
baking dish in a shallow pan of cold water and place in a cold oven.
Set the oven temperature at 300 degrees and cook the souffle for 1
hour.  It should be a rich, golden brown in color and taste
delicious. TOPPING: Put all the ingredients in blender and blend
until smooth. Pour 1/4 cup of the topping over each serving of the
souffle. Makes 8 severing.

Food Exchanges per serving: 1/2 BREAD/STARCH EXCHANGE; 1 FRUIT
EXCHANGE; 1 MEDIUM FAT MEAT (PROTEIN) EXCHANGE 1/4 WHOLE MILK
EXCHANGE; 1/2 FAT EXCHANGE; CAL: 216

Source: Diet Delight Cookbook for Diabetic Children and Their
Parents, Too

Brought to you and yours via Nancy O'Brion and her Meal-Master.
Submitted By NANCY O'BRION   On   08-18-95

