Title: Pineapple And Papaya W/Sticky Rice
Categories: Desserts, Fruit
Yield: 6 servings
FULLER PRFX84A
1 1/2 c  Sweet rice (glutinous rice)
2 c  -water
1 2/3 c  Coconut milk (canned is fine
If it's unsweetened)
1/3 c  Palm or light brown sugar
1/2 ts -salt
1 sm Pineapple -- (try to get
One
Pretty top)
1    3 to 4 pound Mexican Papaya
1 tb Granulated sugar
2 tb Lime juice
Wash the rice thorougly; put it in a pot with the water and bring to a
rolling boil. Turn heat way down and barely simmer for 20 minutes. It
won't be as fluffy as regular rice, but it shouldn't be too wet or it
won't absorb the coconut milk that comes next. While the rice is
cooking, boil 1 C. of the coconut milk until reduced to 2/3 C. Mix
the coconut milk, palm or brown sugar, and salt together, and then
add the rice. Set aside, and allow it to cool. Boil the last 2/3 C.
coconut milk down until there's only about 1/4 C. of it left. Take
the rice mixture and mound it in the center of a big serving plate.
Spread the reduced coconut milk over the mound of rice. NOW,
carefully cover the rice mound and chill it.

Peel and cut up the pineapple into 3/4" chunks, saving a few long
spears for garnish. Peel and cut up the papaya into 3/4" chunks, and
then mix the papaya with the lime juice and the granulated sugar. Mix
the pineapple chunks and the papaya chunks together and chill. (Also
chill the pineapple spears.) I only chilled my fruit and rice for
about 3 hours; if you want to make it ahead I think at least the
fruit should be served on the same day it's cut.

About an hour before dinner you can put the fruit and rice together.
If the top of the pineapple was pretty, put it on the serving plate
next to the rice. Drain the pineapple and papaya mixture - it doesn't
have to be bone dry, but you don't want it soupy. Spoon the fruit
mixture around the rice. Take the reserved pineapple spears and cut
them into slices that will fit over the mound of rice and look pretty.

If you have any just sitting around, fresh mint makes a nice garnish.
Also, the lime juice and granulated sugar were only used because the
papaya I had was kind of dull tasting. This was a big hit with my
friends, I think because it was so cooling after all that spicy hot
food. Anyway, I kept my crown as the dessert queen. A big thank you
to Sopit for her encouragement. Kelly in San Diego

:
Recipe By

