Title: Poulet Roti Au Calvados (Roast Chicken)
Categories: Poultry, Main dish
Yield: 6 servings
2 lb Whole Chickens
Kosher Salt
Pepper, Ground
2    Onions, Chopped Coarse
1 1/2 c  Unpeeled Apple Slices
2 tb Sweet Butter, Melted
1/4 c  Apple Juice
2 tb Olive oil
4 tb Calvados [apple brandy]
2 lg Red apples
2 ts Parsley, minced
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. Remove the wing tips and reserve.
Thoroughly clean the chickens, removing excess fat and any bloody bits
inside the cavities. Wash and dry the birds thoroughly. Reserve the
giblets. Salt and pepper the cavities lightly. Set aside half the
chopped onions. Stuff the birds equally with the remaining onions and
the apple slices. Truss the birds with kitchen string. Season with
salt and pepper. Combine the butter, apple juice and half the
Calvados in a small saucepan. Brush the birds with some of the butter
mixture. Place the birds on a rack in a roasting pan. Roast 40
minutes, basting after 20 minutes with more of the butter mixture and
any pan juices which have accumulated in the roasting pan. Combine
the set aside onions with the wingtips and the giblets in a small
saucepan. Add water to cover. Bring to a simmer over high heat. Skim
any scum which forms on the surface. Reduce heat to maintain the
simmer. Simmer, uncovered, for 1 hour. Strain. Reserve. Quarter and
core the large red apples. Slice each quarter in half lengthwise.
Baste the chickens again after they have been roasting for 40
minutes. Add the apple slices to the roasting pan. Continue roasting.
Baste the birds and the apples after another 20 minutes. Check the
birds for doneness after a total of 65 minutes roasting time (the
juices should run clear when a skewer is poked into the meatiest part
of the breast). Remove the birds from the oven when done. Baste the
birds one last time with the butter mixture. Transfer the birds to a
cutting board. Transfer the apple slices to a serving platter. Let
the chickens rest while preparing the sauce. Pour off any fat from
the roasting pan. Place the pan on top of the stove over moderate
heat. Add the strained giblet stock. Stir to scrape up any browned
bits stuck to the bottom. Add the remaining Calvados. Reduce the
liquid to 2/3 cup over high heat (for 6 servings, adjust as
required). Season to taste with salt and pepper. Un-truss the
chicken(s). Discard the apple slices and onions from the cavities.
Carve into serving pieces. Arrange on the platter over the roasted
apple slices. Spoon sauce over. Garnish with minced parsley.

From: Joel Ehrlich
Submitted By JIM WELLER   On   07-25-95

