Title: PROVENCAL LAMB RAGOUT - Bon Appetit
Categories: Bon appetit, Main dish, Meats, Soup/stew
Yield: 6 servings
1 lb Dried Great Northern beans
1 oz Dried porcini mushrooms*
4    14 1/2-oz cans chicken broth
1 tb Olive oil
3 lb Blade center-cut lamb
-shoulder chops, boned, well
-trimmed, cut into 1 1/2
-inch pieces
1 1/2 c  Dry white wine
3 tb Finely chopped garlic
3 md Carrots, cut on diagonal
-into 1/2-inch-thick pieces
3 lg Leeks (white and pale green
-parts only), coarsely
-chopped
1/2 c  Whipping cream
8 oz Fully cooked smoked garlic
-sausage or other smoked
-sausage (such as kielbasa),
-cut in half lengthwise,
-sliced crosswise into
-1/2-inch pieces
1/4 c  Chopped fresh basil
Combine 1 lb beans and enough water to cover in heavy large Dutch
oven. Bring to boil. Remove from heat, cover and let stand 1 hour.
Drain beans and return to Dutch oven.

Shake dried mushrooms in strainer to remove any sand. Add mushrooms
and chicken broth to beans and bring to boil. Reduce heat to
medium-low, cover partially and simmer 30 minutes.

Meanwhile, heat oil in heavy large skillet over medium-high heat.
Season lamb with salt and pepper. Working in batches, add lamb to
skillet; saute until brown on all sides, about 5 minutes. Using
slotted spoon, transfer lamb to large bowl. Add wine to skillet and
bring to boil, scraping up any browned bits.

Add wine and lamb to beans in Dutch oven. Mix in garlic. Cover
partial- ly; simmer 30 minutes. Uncover, add carrots and cook 20
minutes, stirring occasionally. Add leeks and cream. Simmer until
beans and lamb are tender, stirring occasionally, about 20 minutes.
Add sausage. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover, chill. Bring to simmer
before continuing.)

Using slotted spoon, transfer solids to large bowl. Boil liquid until
reduced to sauce consistency, about 10 minutes. Return solids to Dutch
oven; simmer until heated through. Season to taste with salt and
pepper. Stir in basil.

*Porcini are available at Italian markets and specialty foods stores.

Bon Appetit/October/94  Scanned & edited by Di Pahl & <gg>

