Title: Rijstafel (Rice Table)
Categories: Indonesian, Main dish, Pasta/rice
Yield: 1 group
2 c  Canned, unsweetened coconut
4 c  Whole milk
1 tb Butter
1/2 c  Onion, chopped fine
2    Inches gingerroot, chopped
1    Garlic clove, chopped
1 1/2 tb Curry powder
1 c  Poultry stock
1 tb Flour
1 tb Cornstarch
3 c  Cooked and diced chicken,
-shrimp, veal, fish,
-sweetbreads and mushrooms
2 c  Boiled rice
Onion rings
Hard cooked eggs, sieved
Peanuts, grated
Coconut, grated
Relish
Chutney
Raisins
Kumquats
Bananas, halved and fried
Mixed pickles
Preserved ginger
Heat the milk but do not scald.  Add the coconut and let stand 2 to 3
hours in a cool place.

Saute the chopped onion in the butter until light brown.
Add the chopped gingerroot, chopped garlic, and curry powder.

Strain the coconut from the milk and add the coconut to the curry
mixture. Mix well.

Add the poultry stock to the cooled, strained milk.  Mix 3
tablespoons of this mixture with the flour and cornstarch.  Heat the
remaining liquid and stir the starch paste into it.  Cook the sauce,
stirring steadily, until it is hot and thickened.  Season to taste.

Place half the sauce in a double boiler.  Add the coconut-curry
mixture and stir.  Add the cooked diced chicken, shrimp, fish, veal,
sweetbreads and mushrooms and heat over -NOT IN- boiling water.

Heat the remaining sauce in the top of another double boiler over -NOT
IN- boiling water.

In preparing the boiled rice, it should be cooked until it is rather
dry and flaky.

Place the rice in a serving bowl.

Remove the sauce and the coconut curry mixture from the heat and place
each in a separate bowl.  Place each of the remaining ingredients in
its own bowl.

Start by passing the rice.  Spread a generous portion on each plate.
This is the base or "Table".  Pass the sauce containing the combined
poultry, seafood, mushrooms and veal next.  Spread a generous portion
over the rice.

Follow with the other dishes in this sequence:

Onion rings, sieved hard cooked eggs, grated peanuts, grated
coconut, relish, chutney, raisins, preserved ginger, kumquats, halved
fried bananas and mixed pickles.

Spread the desired amount of each on the plate over the preceding
layer. Pass the extra heated sauce last.  Pour sauce over the entire
dish. Enjoy!

NOTE:  You may add as many additional items to this dish as you wish
so long as they work well with the coconut-curry sauce.  Lamb,
vegetables, most chicken dishes and the like do very well as part of
a Rijsttafel.

Recipe submitted by Joel Ehrlich 08-02-95 on FIDO-Cooking.  Typed in
Meal-Master format by Arthur Cloninger, Huntington, WV.

