Title: Roasted Garlic and Leek Chowder
Categories: Soup/stew, Herbs/spice, Vegetables
Yield: 4 servings
1 tb Unsalted butter
6 ea Large garlic cloves
1 oz Salt pork - diced (1/3 cup)
3 ea Medium leeks - chopped
-(white and tender green)
2 ea Medium carrots - diced
1 ea Celery rib - finely
-chopped (with leaves)
4 c  Chicken stock - or canned
-broth
2 ea Medium baking potatoes -
-peeled & cut into 1/2-in.
Dice (about 1 pound)
1 ts Fresh sage - chopped
Salt & freshly ground
-pepper to taste
1 tb Parsley - chopped
1.  The garlic cloves in this chowder can be roasted unpeeled in a
350F. oven for 25 minutes, then peeled and mashed, OR:  In a small
skillet, melt the butter over very low heat.  Add the garlic cloves,
cover and cook, turning once, until tender, about 25 minutes; the
garlic will be golden, but should not burn. Using a fork, mash the
garlic to a paste. 2. Meanwhile, blanch the salt pork in a small
saucepan of boiling water for 3 minutes. Drain well. 3. In a large
heavy saucepan, fry the salt pork over moderate heat until golden,
about 4 minutes. Discard all but 1 tablespoon of the fat, but leave
the salt pork in the pan. Add the leeks and cook, stirring
constantly, for 1 minute. Stir in the garlic paste and cook for 1
minute longer.  Stir in the carrots and celery.  Reduce the heat to
moderate, cover and cook, stirring occasionally, until the vegetables
have softened, about 10 minutes. 4. Stir in the chicken stock and
bring to a boil over moderately high heat. Add the potatoes and
return to a boil. Reduce the heat to moderate and simmer until the
potatoes are tender, about 15 minutes. 5. Transfer 1 cup of the
chowder to a blender or food processor and puree until smooth. Return
the puree to the chowder and stir in the sage.  Season with salt and
pepper to taste. Ladle the chowder into bowls and garnish with the
parsley.

Makes 3 to 4 servings.

From Food & Wine, November, 1990.

per serving:
Approx. Cook Time: Cholesterol per
Calories
grams per serving:
serving: Marks:

Submitted By MICHELLE BASS   On   08-03-95

