Title: ROAST DUCK WITH POTATOES TURNIPS AND OLIVES - Bon Appetit
Categories: Bon appetit, Main dish, Poultry
Yield: 6 servings
2    5-lb ducks
Fresh or dried thyme
2 lg Onions, sliced
4    Russet potatoes, quartered
-lengthwise, cut crosswise
-into 1/2-inch-thick pieces
5    Turnips, peeled, quartered
-lengthwise, cut crosswise
-into 1/2-inch-thick pieces
1 c  Nicoise olives
Fresh thyme sprigs (opt.)
1 1/2 c  Canned beef broth
1/2 c  Dry white wine
Preheat oven to 450'F. Pat ducks dry. Remove fat pieces from inside
cavities. Season cavities with thyme, salt and pepper. Place a few
onion slices in cavity of each duck. Tie legs together to hold shape.
Place each duck in separate large roasting pan. Pierce all over with
fork. Rub outside of ducks with generous amounts of thyme, salt and
pepper. Place remaining onion slices around ducks. Roast 15 minutes.

Remove roasting pans from oven and add potatoes and turnips. Sprinkle
vegetables with salt, pepper and thyme. Stir vegetables to coat with
duck drippings. Return pans to oven and roast 15 minutes longer.
Reduce oven temperature to 375F. Continue roasting until juices run
slightly rosy when ducks are pierced in thickest part of thigh or
drumstick, turning vegetables occasionally, about 55 minutes longer.
Transfer ducks to serving platter. Mix olives into vegetables. Using
slotted spoon, transfer vegetable mixture to platter with ducks.
Garnish with thyme sprigs, if desired.

Pour drippings from roasting pans into large glass measuring cup.
Degrease drippings, reserving 2 T fat. Add canned beef broth and dry
white wine to one roasting pan. Bring to boil, scraping up any
browned bits. Pour mixture into second pan. Add reserved 2 T fat to
wine mixture in second roasting pan. Add degreased drippings to same
pan. Boil until syrupy, scraping up browned bits, about 5 minutes.
Season sauce to taste with thyme, salt and pepper. Serve sauce with
duck and vegetables.

Bon Appetit/January/1994  Scanned & edited by Di Pahl & <gg>

