Title: Salmon and Halibut Yakitori
Categories: Bbq/grill, Fish/seafoo, Japanese
Yield: 4 servings
3/4 lb Salmon fillet, skin and
-bones removed
3/4 lb Halibut fillet, skin and
-bones removed
8    To 10 Green onion, trimmed
-with one inch green
-remaining
Teriyaki Sauce
1/4 c  Mirin (sweet rice wine) or
-dry sherry
1/2 c  Soy sauce, preferably
-reduced-sodium
1/2 c  Chicken broth
2 ts Cornstarch, stirred with 1
-tbs water
Description:

Yakitori is the Japanese term for small skewers of meat-often
chicken-brushed with with teriyaki sauce and grilled.  Yakitori stands
abound in Japan, making it a favorite snack food or quick lunch on a
busy day.  Some of the teriyaki sauce used for the fish can be used
to season eggplant before grilling.  An unusual, and unusually
delicious, accompaniment is grilled rice cake.

For a traditional teriyaki finish, cornstarch is added to part of the
sauce, making a shining glaze to brush on the fish before serving.
("Teriyaki" means "shining broil" in Japanese.)  You can omit this
step if you like.

Bamboo skewers 6 inches long are best for this recipe.  Soak them in
cold water for at least 30 minutes before using.
Instructions:

Teriyaki Sauce:

To make the sauce, combine the mirin, soy sauce, and chicken broth in
a small sauce pan.  Bring to a boil and simmer for 1 minute.  For the
teriyaki glaze, pour 1/3 of the teriyaki sauce into a small pan and
heat gently.  Stir in the cornstarch mixture and cook until
thickened, about 2 minutes.  Set aside the sauce and glaze.

Salmon and Halibut Yakitori:

Preheat the grill.

Cut the salmon and halibut into 1 1/2 inch squares, about 3/4 inch
thick. Cut the trimmed green onions into 1 1/2 inch lengths.

Thread four pieces of fish, alternating salmon and halibut, on each
skewer, with three pieces of green onion between the fish.  Brush the
skewers with some teriyaki sauce and let sit until grill is ready.

Grill the fish skewers over a medium-hot fire for 1 to 2 minutes.
Brush the tops with teriyaki sauce, turn the skewers and brush the
cooked side with teriyaki sauce.  Continue grilling just until the
fish is nicely browned and opaque through, 1 to 2 minutes longer.
Brush both sides of the skewers with the teriyaki glaze and serve
immediately.

Source/Author: Simply Seafood / typo Bob Shiells

Nutrition: per:   Serving
Total Fat (g):
Protein (g):    40
Sodium (g):  1184
Carbohyrates (g):
Calories:   287
:
:
:

Notes:

See recipes for Grilled Rice Cakes and Grilled Whole Japanese
Eggplant. Submitted By BOB SHIELLS   On   08-08-95

