Title: Smoked Salmon (Earl Shelsby)
Categories: Bbq/grill, Fish/seafoo
Yield: 1 servings
No Ingredients Found
From : Earl Shelsby, Mon 13 Feb 95 00:00, Area: COOKING Here are some
special hints for the processing of salmon. Never remove the skin from
salmon.  Leave it on, whether the fish is processed whole, in halves,
or in smaller cuts.

For salmon, the blackstrap molasses variant of the Basic fish Brine
gives particularly tasty results. Another delicious variant is to cut
short the brining period by half an hour, and then marinate the fish
in soy sauce for 30 minutes before drying and smoking. It is easy to
produce what is sold commercially as Kippered Salmon.  This is made
exactly the same way as ordinary smoked salmon except that after
brining it is colored with a harmless dye, to give it the attractive
reddish color. Some people put the dye in the brine; but then that
batch of brine is spoiled for regular use. It is more economical to
use in spearate dye bath. Kipper coloring is sold under various trade
names, but the actual coloring ingredient is usually 150 Orange I, a
dye approved under the U.S. Federal Food and Drug Cosmetic Act.  Half
an ounce of the dye mixed with 2-1/2 U.S. gallons of water (2-1/8
Imperial gallons) makes a suitable strength. Dip the fish for 15 to
30 seconds, according to the depth of color desired. Ordinary food
coloring may be used instead, but it does not give such a rich color.
BASIC FISH BRINE: This brine is far superior to a straight salt
solution and is recommended for use with fish, oysters, clams,
5 lbs salt (8
shrimps and prawns. 4 U.S. gal water
cups) 1 lb dark brown sugar 1-1/2 cup lemon juice 2 tbs liquid garlic
2 tbs liquid onion Disolve the salt first, then add the other
ingredients and mix thoroughly. Test the brine with a potato or egg;
the salinometer should read 80.  To be precise, of course, the
salinometer is not now measuring the salt content of the brine, but
shows the combined density change produced by all the flavoring
ingredients. Concerning the Basic Fish Brine, here are some
suggestions: If liquid garlic and liquid onion are not available,
garlic and onion powder may be substituted, although they do not
readily disolve in water. Alternatively, garlic cloves and onions may
be crushed, but peel them first. To peel garlic easily, cut off the
ends of the clove, put it on the cutting board and press with the
side of a wide knife; the skin will pop off.  The garlic or onion may
then be crushed with a garlic press.  Or, if no press is available,
place the garlic or onion in a folded piece of aluminum foil or wax
paper, and crush with a wide knife or piece of wood. If a stronger
flavor is desired, add a little tabasco sauce to the brine. Dill may
be added to the brine, for those who like it.  Two tablespoons of
dill salt will be about right.  Alternatively, crushed of broken dill
plants may be put in the brine, as they are put into dill pickles.
The dill-flavored brine is particularly good for making smoked or
kippered salmon. For a subtle variation of flavor, honey or
blackstrap molasses may be substituted for the brown sugar.

Submitted By SALLIE KREBS   On   07-29-95

