Title: Smoked Beans
Categories: Bbq/grill, Vegetables, Syrups
Yield: 6 servings
3 1/2 lb Dried navy beans
1/2 c  Onion, chopped
1/2 c  Celery, chopped
1/3 c  Bell pepper, chopped
2 tb Prepared mustard
3/4 c  Maple syrup
1 c  Barbecue sauce (bottled or
-homemade)
1/4 lb Salt pork, diced
4 md To 5 md Fresh Italian plum
-tomatoes
4 md To 5 md Fresh tomatoes
3    To 4 Drops Tabasco sauce, to
-taste
1 tb Worcestershire sauce
6    Strips Bacon, uncooked and
-cut in half
From : Jim Bodle, Wed 07 Sep 94 02:54, Area: COOKING

Here is my version of Michelle's smoked beans. It's really not as
much work as it looks, but does take some time. It is well worth the
effort, though. I took them to the family Labor Day picnic and there
wasn't any left over. BTW, I used Bulls-Eye Original barbecue sauce
because I was out of my own. I picked Bull-Eye because the ingredient
list, didn't list any additives or preservatives. It's really a
decent BBQ sauce.

Wash beans and and soak in cold water overnight. Next morning, drain
beans and rinse. Wash, peel and chop tomatoes. Add to beans and stir
well. Add remaining ingredients, except bacon and stir well. Add
enough water to cover beans to a depth of one inch. Bring to a full
boil and boil for 5 minutes, stirring occasionally. Reduce heat,
simmer, uncovered, stirring occasionally, for 3-4 hours or until
beans are tender. Tomatoes will cook apart and this is normal. It may
be necessary to add some more water while simmering. Let cool a bit
and pour into 3 foil lasagna pans. Cover with aluminum foil and
refrigerate overnight.

Next morning, uncover pans, lay 4 half strips of bacon on top of each
pan. Place uncovered pans on racks in smoker. Smoke for 1 1/2 to 2
hours, or until bacon is curling.

Each pan serves 6-8.

Note: This recipe was orignally, Michelle Bass's "Best Ever Baked
Beans". Since we have plenty of tomatoes in the garden and we like
tomatoes, I thought this would be a good use for some. It was! I
froze one pan for later use, the rest was served at our family's
Labor Day picnic. There wasn't any left to bring home. Thanks
Michelle for the recipe. Thanks to Pat Stockett for preparing
Michelle's recipe for the Cooking Echo picnic this year.

SOURCE:* 9/94 POSTED BY: Jim Bodle 9/94

