Title: Some Key Ingredients For Louisianna Cuisine (cont'd)
Categories: Information, Cajun/creol
Yield: 1 servings
No Ingredients Found
it's easy to make it yourself, or you can mail-order it from some
Louisiana outlets (I'm not sure if Vaucresson's mail orders, but I'll
check). For southern Californians, Pete's hot sausage is locally made
by a Louisiana expatriate, and is available at most of the places in
L.A. listed in the TASSO:

Tasso is a very highly seasoned lean pork butt, used as a seasoning
meat. It has an intense, delicious flavor, and a little goes a long
way. I suppose you could substitute smoked ham, but you will not get
remotely the same flavor. You can obtain tasso from a few mail-order
sources, but if you have a smoker you can make it yourself.
SEASONINGS AND CONDIMENTS: CANE SYRUP: The clear or brown syrup made
from sugar cane, and often used locally instead of maple syrup or
those thin, nasty, artificially-flavored "pancake syrups". CAYENNE
PEPPER: Fiery ground red pepper made from the cayenne chile. Powerful
stuff, and used liberaly in Louisiana cooking, especially in
combination with white pepper and freshly ground black pepper. CRAB,
SHRIMP AND CRAWFISH BOIL SPICES: Spices for boiling seafood. They
come either in a flow-through packet, in dry powdered form, or as a
liquid concentrate, used to flavor the water in which seafood is
boiled. It's strong, pungent and spicy. Zatarain's, Rex, Yogi and Tony
Chachere'sare the prevalent brands. Zatarain's comes in the well-known
"flow-through" packet; the others are granulated, which you can add
to the water and/or sprinkle on the seafood itself after boiling.
CREOLE MUSTARD: A thick, pungent, spicy, coarse local mustard used on
po-boysas well as an ingredient in many dishes. The mustard seeds are
marinated before preparation. Most common brands are Zatarain'sand
Horse Shoe. FILE' POWDER: File' powder is made from dried and ground
sassafras leaf. It is used as a seasoning and primarily thickening
agent in gumbo, and has a wonderfully pungent and aromatic flavor.
Common local brands are Zatarain's, Rex or Yogi. There is no
substitute. Remember that file' should never be added to a pot of
gumbo, only to individual servings. If cooked or reheated, it will
burn stringy. TABASCO: The King of All Pepper Sauces. Available
worldwide, and made in Avery Island, Louisiana by the McIlhenny
family since the 1880s. Used as a table sauce and as a cooking
ingredient. Other good pepper sauces that are not as distinctively
flavored as and are mellower than Tabasco are Crystal and Louisiana
RedHot. Sample and pick your favorite, remembering that there are
over 60 different brands of hot sauces made in Louisiana.

Submitted By SAM LEFKOWITZ   On   08-12-95

