Title: Steve's Pepperpot Dumplings
Categories: Side dish, Breads
Yield: 4 servings
1 lb Butternut Squash (500 g);
-seeded; baked
1 ea Egg
1 lg Green Onion; chopped
1/2 ts Ground Allspice
1/2 ts Salt
1/4 ts EACH: Dried Thyme and
-Oregano
1 c  All-Purpose Flour
2 tb Olive Oil
SAUCE:
1 tb Olive Oil
1 ea Onion; chopped
2 ea Garlic Cloves; minced
1/2 ts Hot Pepper Flakes
3 ts To 4 ts Curry Powder, or to
-taste
14 oz Coconut Milk (400 ml can)
1/3 c  Dark Ale
2 c  Fresh Spinach; chopped
1 lg Tomato; chopped
1/2 ts Salt
4 ea Green Onions; sliced
1/2 c  Fresh Coriander; chopped
STEVE'S PEPPERPOT DUMPLINGS

Steven Potovsky, chef at the Rivoli, 332 Queen St. W., served these
yummy little Caribbean-inspired meatless dumplings at the recnt
Toronto Taste '95, an anuual fundraiser for Second Harvest Food Bank.
The delicious sauce gets its flavor from coconut and the unusual
addition of dark ale. Potovsky uses a Jamaican pumpkin called
calabeza (sold in Caribbean food shops and some supermarkets) along
with squash for his; ours were delectably made with squash alone.


Place squash on baking sheet in preheated 350 F oven about 50 minutes
or until tender. Cool; discard skin. Place squash in food processor
with egg, green onion, allspice, thyme, oregano, and salt, processing
with on/off motion until smooth. In bowl, combine mixture with flour,
mixing just until blended.

Drop batter by tablespoonfuls into large saucepan of boiling water,
about 12 at a time. Cook about 3 minutes, or until dumplings rise to
surface. Transfer to bowl with slotted spoon; toss with oil to
prevent from sticking.

Heat oil in large skillet or saucepan;  add onion, garlic and hot
pepper flakes, cooking about 4 minutes or until softened. Stir in
curry powder; cook 1 minute, then add dumplings, stirring gently to
coat with spices. Add coconut milk, beer, spinach, tomato and salt.
Bring to boil, reduce heat and simmer about 7 minutes. Stir in green
onions. garnish with coriander.

Makes 4 servings.

From An Article: Suds And Grub by Tony Aspler in the Toronto Star, 26
July, 1995.

Transcribed By: S. Lefkowitz

