Title: Suds And Grub
Categories: Beverages, Alcohol
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM-----------------------SUDS AND GRUB----------------------------
"A British beer aficianado gives pointers on which lager, ale or
stout to sip with your favorite fare."

"Matching beer with food is not an eccentric idea. We only think it's
eccentric because it's something we've forgotten about."

"Traditionally, beer was served with meals throughout Europe. If you
look at old labels you see lots of `dinner ales'. If you read
Dickens, his charcters were always having pots of ales with their
dinners."

This is Michael Jackson talking. No, not that Michael Jackson. This
one can't moonwalk and he doesn't wear a glove. But he knows his
beer. In fact, the hirsute, rumpled Englishman is the world's leading
authority on suds. Just call him the Billy Graham of beer or, more
accurately, The Guru Of Grain. In addition to his books on beer,
Jackson also writes knowledgeably on whiskey. His latest book is
`Michael Jackson's Beer Companion' (General, $39.95)

"When you try to introduce the concept of choosing beers for specfic
dishes people very often say, `I like the idea but the quantity is
such a problem,' says Jackson. You don't need to drink a pint with
every dish. There's no reason why can't drink beer out of a wine
glass. It's actually very good out of a burgundy glass. You get a
good look at the color, it contains the aroma very well and it's
about the right serving portion. You can have one bottle and share it
with your partner." Jackson suggests you think of beers the way you
think of wines, and you'll begin to understand why there are over 40
different types.

"To many people, beer is a light-bodied, golden, sparkling, medium-dry
drink ++ and that's only the beer they know."

"A person who looks at beer like that is a person who thinks that the
only wine that exists is California Chablis." Jackson explains that
in Europe it's traditional to serve a particular beer with a
particular food. A stout such as Guinness with oysters, for example,
is a combination that goes back to the time when stout was the
dominant style of beer in Britain and oysters were 10 a penny and put
on the bar as a snack. Another example: In Alsace, Switzerland and
parts of southern Germany they're very fond of having great feasts of
asparagus, often accompanied by scrambled eggs and ham. With this
meal, says Jackson, they drink a standard lager.

"But a Belgian monk gave me the perfect match ++ a Belgian Trappest
Triple. Its coriander-like flavor goes very well with asparagus. It's
harder to find a wine that goes with asparagus. When matching beer
with food, Jackson suggests you think wine. What wine would best go
with the dish and what beer is the best correlative to that wine?
Here are his suggestions.

NEW WORLD CHARDONNAY: A malty, hoppy beer like Samuel Adams Boston
Ale.

BURGUNDY-STYLE CHARDONNAY: A classic European Pilsner that has the
harder, drier, bitter hop characteristics of a Chablis.

CLARET (RED BORDEAUX): English pale ale NEW WORLD CANERNET SAUVIGNON:
Pale ales from Washington and Oregon.

PINOT NOIR/BURGUNDY: The richer, heavier Scottish or Belgian ales.

SAUTERNES (DESSERT WINE): Some of the very strong barley wines or
some of the spicy, strong Belgian beers.

OLOROSO SHERRY: Thomas Hardy ale.

MATCHING FOOD AND BEER:  [some pointers from Michael Jackson]

BARBECUES: Dryish porter or stout.

CHEESE: Strong, hoppy Belgian beer or barley wine.

CHICKEN & PORK: Festbier or Dortmunder

DESSERTS: Double bock, Trappist ale or barley wine.

FISH (COOKED): Pilsner

FISH (RAW, PICKLED OR SMOKED): Very acidic beers such as Belgian
lambics or red ales.

LAMB, BEEF AND GAME: Pale ale.

PATES AND TERRINES: A rich double bock, Trappist ale ore barley wine.

PIZZA: A Vienna-style lager.

SAUSAGES AND SMOKED MEAT: Kolsch, Altbier or Vienna-style lager.

Submitted By SAM LEFKOWITZ   On   07-26-95

