Title: Texas Smoked Brisket
Categories: Bbq/grill
Yield: 6 servings
1/4 c  Salt
1 1/2 ts Freshly ground pepper
1 1/2 ts Red pepper
From : Michael Grosz, Oct-25-90 6:13am

This unique recipe was given to me by Bill Lawrie of Dallas, based on
using a regular meat smoker, capable of cooking at very low temps.
Soak a couple handfuls of hickory or mesquite chips in water
overnight. Lots of folks like to use a "rub". Here is one basic
recipe:

Rub the above into the meat to thoroughly coat. When the coals are
ready, put some of the wood chips on the coals. Then put the meat on
the grill and cover. Do not remove the cover - not even to "peek" at
the meat during the smoking process. As mentioned earlier, it's
important to have very low heat. After 4-5 hours, I either put more
coals and chips on to cook it longer on the smoker, or I'll take it
inside and wrap it tightly in two layers of foil, and put it in the
oven for another several hours at about 190F. Which method you choose
depends on your cooker and the level of smokiness you want. I suggest
you start with a small piece of meat and continue that way until you
get your own personal technique down pat. Here's another hint: To
save some hassle, you can do 2 briskets at one time--when the
briskets are ready to come off the fire and go into the foil, wrap
them separately in foil. Put the 1 st one in the oven as per
directions. When the 2 nd one has cooled down, put it in a Ziplok
freezer bag and stash it in the freezer until you're ready for it.
Then, take it straight from the freezer, remove the plastic bag, and
pop it into the oven for several hours, just like you did the first
one. I promise you: If you have wrapped it very tightly in foil, you
will not be able to tell the difference between the 1 st and 2nd
briskets.

After it's done, it should have almost zero fat, except for maybe a
layer on one side that you can peel off real easy like. Then start
carving thin slices of that pretty little hunk of beef on the
diagonal across the grain. It'll be so tender, it'll just melt in
your mouth. Now, about sauce--here's one that'll make your taster
dance for joy:

4 tablespoons veg. oil (our original recipe called for 1/2 cup
brisket fat, rendered, but that's not too good for the body, so we
changed it to oil.) 1 1/4 cups ketchup 1/2 cup Worcestershire sauce 4
tablespoons brown sugar juice of 2 lemons 2 tablespoons chopped onion
1/4 cup water 1 tablespoon red pepper sauce

Combine all ingredients in sauce pan and simmer over low heat,
uncovered, 30 45 minutes. Mmmm-mmm. Now you're talking Texas bbq

