Title: Thai Roast Duch Red Curry (Kang-Ped Bhet-Yang)
Categories: Thai, Game, Poultry
Yield: 8 servings
-
5    Dry Hot Chili Peppers
1 tb Lemon Grass (Sliced)
2 sl Galanga
1 tb Coriander Seeds
2 ts Cumin
1 ts Fennel Seed
1/4    Ground Nutmeg
3 sm Onions
5    Cloves of Garlic
1 ts Shrimp Paste
3    Coriander Roots
Zest from 1/4 Sm Kaffir --
Lime
1 1/2 ts Black Peppers
1/2 ts Salt
1    Roast Duck
5    Plum Tomatoes
1/2 c  * Small Thai Eggplants
4    Fresh Med.Hot Chili Peppers
4    Kaffir Lime Leaves
1/2 bn Thai Basils (Horapha)
1 ts Coconut Sugar
3 c  Coconut "Cream"
5 c  Coconut "Milk"
Fish Sauce
RED CURRY PASTE-----
* Small Thai "eggplants" belongs to the eggplant family, but doesn't
resemble any eggplants found here in the US.  These are about the
size of large green peas, and look pretty much the same.  Regular
green peas may be used as substitute.

Put the ingredients for the red curry paste into a mortar and pound
until well mixed into a paste.  NOTE: You may use commercially
available paste, if available.  Adjust the amount to taste.

Debone the roast duck, and cut up the meat into bite-size rectangular
pieces (leaving the skin on).  Cut the neck and wing into pieces.

Place the coconut milk in a large saucepan and heat till boiling.
Add duck pieces and cook till tender.  Put the coconut cream into a
frying pan, add red curry paste.  Heat over fairly high heat, stiring
constantly, till all the paste have mixed in and thoroughly heated.
Add Kaffir Lime leaves, fish sauce (to taste), coconut sugar, and
continue to heat (keep stiring all the time to prevent burning) until
red oil starts to form on the surface of the "sauce".

Add the "sauce" to the saucepan of duck and coconut milk, and bring
back to a boil.  Add all remaining ingredients except the basils,
which is to be added when the curry starts to boil.  Remove from heat
and serve with plain boiled white rice.

Translated by Padej Gajajiva from "Homemaker, Book 2" by Ponsee
Gajajiva.

:
Recipe By
-----OTHER INGREDIENTS-----

