Title: VEGETABLE BEEF STEW - Country Living
Categories: Vegetables, Soup/stew, Meats
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM---------------------YIELD: 8 SERVINGS--------------------------
1 ea 3-lb boneless chuck roast
4 tb All-purpose flour
2 tb Vegetable oil
1 lg Onion, chopped
1/2 c  Dry red wine
1 cn (14 1/2-or 13 3/4-oz) beef
-broth
3 tb Tomato paste
2 ea Bay leaves
1 lb Carrots
1 lb Mixed small potatoes
-(use red, purple, and
-yellow potatoes)
1 md (1/2 lb) celeriac
-or 3 stalks celery
1/2 lb Large flat green beans
2 tb Water
1 tb Worcestershire sauce
2 tb Chopped fresh parsley leaves
1 ea Trim and discard excess fat
-and any gristle from beef.
-Cut beef into
1 1/4 ea Chunks. Place 3 T  flour in
-shallow dish or pie plate;
-add
half of beef and toss to coat with flour. 2. In 6-quart pressure
cooker (see Note), heat 1 T oil over medium-high heat. Add floured
beef and cook, using slotted spoon, until browned on all sides.
Remove beef chunks to bowl after they brown. Add remaining oil to
pan; flour and brown the rest of the beef. Reserve any leftover
flour. 3. Reduce heat to medium and add onion to cooker; sautd 1
minute. Add wine and stir to loosen browned-on bits. Add broth,
tomato paste, bay leaves, and browned beef with accumulated juices.
Cover pressure cooker and heat over high heat to bring up to full
pressure (15 lb). Re- duce heat to stabilize pressure and cook 15
minutes. 4. Meanwhile, prepare vegetables: Peel carrots and cut into
1-inch lengths. Scrub unpeeted potatoes well and cut into halves or
quarters. Peel celeriac and cut lengthwise into quarters, then slice.
If using celery, cut into 1-inch lengths. 5. After stew has cooked 15
minutes, release pressure immediately under cold running water. Add
prepared vegetables to pressure cooker; cover and return to full
pressure over high heat. Meanwhile, trim ends off green beans and cut
beans diagonally into 1 1/2-inch lengths. When pressure cooker
reaches full pressure, release pressure immediately as before. Remove
and discard bay leaves from stew. 6. Add beans to stew and cook
uncovered over medium heat just until they soften-about 1 minute. In
small cup, combine remaining 1 T  flour with any leftover flour, the
water, and Worcestershire sauce. Stir flour mixture into stew and
continue to cook until sauce boils and thickens. Transfer stew to
serv- ing dish and sprinkle with parsley. Note: This recipe was
tested in a 6-quart stainless-steel Presto Pressure Cooker. If using
another brand, follow manufacturer's directions for heating and
releasing pressure. Country Living/Jan/94 Scanned & fixed by DP and GG

TO ALL  Submitted By BARBARA O'KEEFE  SUBJ PRESSURE COOKER    On
08-11-95

