Title: Zuppa d'Aglio - Garlic Soup
Categories: Italian, Soup/stew, Herbs/spice
Yield: 6 servings
3    Heads garlic - fresh
1/4 c  Olive oil
1 md Onion - cut up
2    Celery ribs - cut up
1 c  White wine - dry
1/4 c  All-purpose flour
1 ga Chicken stock
1 md Potato - peeled and cut up
1 c  Whipping cream
10    Basil leaves - fresh,
-chopped
5    Sprigs thyme leaves - fresh
2 ts Salt
1 ts White pepper
1/2 ts Tabasco
1 ts Extra virgin olive oil
2    Garlic cloves - sliced very
-thin, for garnish
*My notes: This recipe may sound strange... but it's *wonderful*!

1.  Cut two of the garlic heads in half across and remove the papery
outer skin.  Put these cut side down on a very hot surface - a
griddle or black iron skillet - until they're black.  Peel all the
garlic completely.

2.  Heat the olive oil in a large saucepan and saute the onions,
celery, and the garlic until lightly browned at the edges. Add the
wine and bring to a boil.

3.  Sprinkle in the flour and stir the pot thoroughly, but don't let
it brown.  Add the chicken stock, 1/2 gallon water, and the potato.
Whisk about the pot well and bring to a boil. Reduce to a rapid
simmer and cook for about an hour and 15 minutes.

4.  Strain out the solids from the soup, and puree them in a blender
or food processor, along with enough broth to ease things along.
Return the puree to the soup and restore the boil. Add the whipping
cream, basil, thyme, salt, pepper and Tabasco.

5.  Heat the extra virgin olive oil in a skillet very hot.  In it
toast the slivers of garlic until brown around the outside.

6.  Ladle the soup into bowls and garnish with roasted garlic slivers.
Float a toasted, garlic-buttered slice of French bread on top.

Chef Andrea Apuzzo writes of this recipe in his book "La Cucina di
Andrea's", "Garlic wears many hats.  Most people think of it in its
aggressive, green, aromatic, sharp form.  But when garlic is cooked
slowly for a long time, it takes on a sweet nuttiness that is every
bit as interesting as its more raw flavors.  The sweet side of garlic
is exemplified by this soup."

Andrea's Restaurant 3100 Nineteenth Street Metaire, Louisiana 70002
FROM: Fred Towner,  Feb-4-91

