Title: CHICKEN WITH PORT~ CREAM & MUSHROOMS
Categories: Poultry
Yield: 4 Servings
1    Whole chicken (3 lb)
1 lb Fresh mushrooms
1/2 tb Butter
1/2 ts Lemon juice
1/4 ts Salt
1 c  Heavy cream
1/2 tb Cornstarch; blended with
1 tb - of the cream
1 tb Minced shallots
1/3 c  Port wine
-Madeira may be substituted
1 tb Butter
1/4 c  Cognac or a good brandy
PREHEAT OVEN TO 425F. Truss the chicken, then dry the outside
thoroughly and rub with 1 tablespoon butter all over the skin.

TO BROWN THE CHICKEN: Set the chicken on a rack, breast side up in the
roasting pan, place in the oven for 5 minutes. Turn on its left side
and baste quickly with butter, return to the oven for another 5
minutes. Turn on its right side for another 5 minutes, basting as
before.

TO ROAST THE CHICKEN: Leave the chicken on its right side. Reduce oven
temperature to 350F. Leave it for a total of 15-20 minutes, basting
it at least every 10 minutes. Salt the chicken, turn it on its other
side, and cook another 15-20 minutes, basting at least every 20
minutes. Turn the chicken breast up and continue basting every 10
minutes during the last few minutes it is roasting.

TO TELL IF THE CHICKEN IS DONE: Prick the thickest part of the
drumstick with a fork. If the juices come out clear yellow, it is
done. If not, roast another 5 minutes and test again. As a final
check, lift the chicken and drain the juices from its vent into the
pan; if the last few drops are clear yellow, it is definitely done.
Put the chicken on a warm platter, remove the trussing string, and
let it sit at least 5-10 minutes before carving so that the juices
will not retreat into the tissues. It can wait a good 30 minutes with
foil over it. As the chicken roasts, wipe the mushrooms clean with a
paper towel, cut off the ends and slice them; if small, leave whole.
Bring 1/4 cup water to a boil with 1/2 tablespoon butter, lemon juice
and salt. Add mushrooms, cover and cook for 8 minutes. Separate the
cooking liquid and save it. Pour the cream and cornstarch and cream
mixture into the mushrooms. Simmer for 2 minutes. Taste and correct
seasoning and hold. When the chicken is done, remove it to its
platter and remove all but 2 table- spoons of fat from the pan. Stir
in the shallots and saute for 1 minute. Add the port and mushroom
juices and reduce rapidly while deglazing the pan (scraping up the
coagulated juices) until the liquid has reduced to about 1/4 cup. Add
the mushrooms and cream. Simmer for 2-3 minutes, allowing the liquid
to thicken slightly. Taste and correct seasoning; add more lemon
juice to taste. Butter the inside of a casserole with butter; rapidly
carve the chicken into serving pieces and sprinkle lightly with salt.
Arrange it in the casserole for serving. Warm the cognac carefully,
do not let it catch on fire. Set the chicken over moderate heat until
you hear it begin to sizzle; pour the cognac over it and ignite it
carefully with a match. Shake the casserole slowly till the flames
have subsided. Pour the mushroom mixture over the casserole, basting
the chicken. Cover and let it steep for 5 minutes. Do not allow the
sauce to boil. Serve immediately.

PETER KUMP - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK

