Title: CHILES RELLENOS CON QUESO (SYD)
Categories: Cheese
Yield: 4 Servings
2 cn Green Chiles, Pealed
1/2 lb Monterey Jack Cheese
4 lg Eggs
Flour For Coating Chilies
4 tb Flour
Oil For Frying, 1 1/2 to 2
-Inches Deep In Pan
Sauce Ingredients: *
1 sm Onion, Chopped
1    Clove Garlic, Crushed
1 ts Oil
1 c  Tomatoes, Whole
2 c  Chicken Broth
Salt, To Taste
Pepper, To Taste
Oregano, To Taste
* This is enough sauce for six to eight chiles.

Cut the cheese into pieces about 1/2 inch square and 2-1/2 inches
long. Stuff each chile with one piece of the cheese. Roll each chile
in flour until well coated. Make a batter by beating the whites of
the four eggs until they are stiff.  It is very important to use a
clean mixing bowl and beaters to ensure having a nice stiff batter,
this sounds unimportant but it will make the difference between OK
and Great final product. Beat the yolks lightly, fold the yolks into
the whites and then fold in the four T of flour. Drop the stuffed and
floured chiles into the batter one at a time.  Pick up each with a
spoon and transfer to a saucer; then slide from saucer into about
1-1/2 inches of moderately hot oil in your largest frying pan.  This
is also important since it will help keep the batter on the chile and
make for a nice presentation. Baste with hot oil or they may turtle
before you want them too. Fry until golden brown on each side. I do
four or five at a time.  Drain the chiles on absorbent paper towels
and let them stand. Don't worry if the nice puffy coating deflates,
it will puff up again when heated in the thin sauce before serving.
Prepare thin sauce by cooking onion and garlic until wilted, in oil.
Add tomatoes and press through a strainer.  Press canned tomatoes
through a strainer and combine with onion and garlic. Put in a pot
and bring to a boil. Season to taste with salt, pepper and oregano.
At serving time, heat the chiles in the boiling thin sauce for about
five minutes and they are ready to serve with some of the reserved
sauce. If you enjoy Chile Rellanos in a restaurant and would like to
fix them at home give this recipe a try.

From: Syd's Cookbook.

