Title: CHILI BEEF TACOS
Categories: Misc, Mexican, Chili
Yield: 20 Servings
1/4 c  Chili powder
6    Garlic cloves, crushed
5 tb Strained fresh lime juice
3 tb Olive oil
1 tb Cumin
2 1/2 lb Stewing beef cut into 1/2 in
28 oz Italian plum tomatoes;
Drained and crushed
2 c  Beef broth
12 oz Bottle dark beer
1    Large onion chopped
2    Jalapeno chilies, minced
10 oz Pkg. frozen corn, thawed and
25    Pimento stuffed green olives
1/2 c  Pimentos, drained  chopped
Salt and pepper
20    Taco shells
12 oz Sharp cheddar cheese, shredd
1/2    Bunch romaine lettuce; chopp
4    Chopped seeded tomatoes
Hot or mild salsa
1 c  Sour cream
Mix chili powder, garlic, lime juice, 3 Tbs. olive oil and cumin in a
large bowl to form a paste.  Add the beef and mix till coated.
Refrigerate 24 hours, stirring occasionally. Position rack in lower
third of oven and preheat to 350 F. Combine marinated beef, canned
tomatoes, broth and beer in a Dutch oven.
Bring to boil over high heat. Cover, transfer to oven and bake for 45
mins.  Uncover and continue baking until beef is tender, about 45
minutes more.  Cool, shred beef and return to cooking liquid. Cover
and refrigerate overnight.

Heat 3 Tbs. oil in heavy skillet over medium-low heat. Add onion and
jalapenos then cover and cook until onion is tender and lightly
browned, stirring occasionally, about 15 mins. Strain beef cooking
liquid into skillet, Bring to a boil.  Reduce heat and simmer
uncovered until sauce is thickened and reduced to 1/2 cup, stirring
occasionally, about 50 mins.
Mix in beef. (Can  be preparted 1 day in advance and refrigerated).
Add corn, olives, and pimentos and stir over medium heat until just
heated through, about 5 minutes. Season with salt and pepper to
taste. To assemble: Half fill taco shells with beef mixture.

Top with cheese, lettuce and chopped tomatoes.  Serve immediately,
passing salsa and sour cream separately. Note: The same filling also
works in chimichangas and enchiladas, and is delicious spooned over
toasted hamburger rolls. It can also be frozen.

