Title: CHILES RELLENOS
Categories: Mesamexican, Appetizers, Lnet
Yield: 6 Servings
MMMMM----------------------CHILES RELLENOS---------------------------
1 c  Grated manchego cheese,
-plus 2 tablespoons
1 c  Grated panela cheese,
-plus 2 tablespoons
3/4 c  Grated a¤ejo cheese
6 lg Poblano chiles, roasted,
-peeled, slit lengthwise
-down one side and seeded
Flour for coating
4 lg Eggs
1/2 ts Salt
1/4 ts Freshly ground black pepper
1 1/2 c  Vegetable oil
1 c  Roasted Tomato Salsa
1 c  Roasted Tomatillo Salsa
6 tb Crema, creme fraiche or
-sour cream
MMMMM-----------------------CREMA (2 CUPS----------------------------
2 c  Heavy cream
1/4 c  Buttermilk
CHILE RELLENOS: Combine the grated manchego, panela and a¤ejo cheeses
in a bowl and reserve.

Working on a towel-lined counter, spread open 1 chile at a time. Mold
1/2 cup of the cheese mixture in your hands to form a compact
torpedo-shaped log and place inside the chile. Roll the flesh to
entirely enclose the cheese, using the towel to help shape a tight
roll. Place on a platter and stuff the remaining chiles. (They can
now be reserved for up to 2 days, well covered, in the refrigerator.)

Preheat oven to 350øF.

Spread the flour on a platter. Beat the eggs with the salt and pepper
in a bowl wide enough for dipping.

Heat the oil in a 9-inch cast-iron skillet over medium-high heat
until hot. Dip 3 chiles at a time in the flouor, patting off the
excess so just a fine even coating remains. Then place in the eggs.

Test the oil by dropping in a bit of egg.  If it sizzles immediately
and rises to the surface, the oil is ready. Drop the chiles, 1 at a
time, into the oil, putting an extra dollop of egg batter on each.
Fry 3 at a time until golden brown all over, about 1 1/2 minutes per
side.

Drain on paper towels. Reheat oil and repeat with remaining chiles.

CREMA: Whisk the cream and buttermilk together. Cover and set in a
warm place (a gas oven with just the heat from the pilot light is
fine) for 8 hours.

Crema may be kept in the refrigerator as long as a week.

NOTE: Manchego Cheese: There are two kinds of manchego used in mexican
cooking - and neither is the high-priced Spanish variety sold in
upscale cheese shops. There is a hard variety (called viejo) and a
soft, semifirm, golden one that is an excellent melter. The soft one
is used most often for cooking. Monterey Jack or muenster can be
substituted.

Anejo Cheese: Also known as Cotija, is a salty, crumbly white cheese,
similar to feta in appearance. Romano or washed and dried feta are
good substitutes.

Panela Cheese: is a mild, milky-tasting, fresh white cheese often
sold in rounds. A ricotta, farmer's or dry cottage cheese can be
substituted.

The reason Mary Sue and Susan like to use one part manchego, one part
panella and one-half part anejo is because they give a greater
texture and flavor than just one cheese, but is not a hard-and-fast
rule. They both say to go right ahead and use whatever you happen to
have in the kitchen, or experiment and come up with you own cheese
mix.

Serves 6 as an appetizer, 3 as an entree.

SOURCE: Mesa Mexican by Mary Sue Milliken and Susan Feniger with
Helena Siegel.

