Title: CHINESE PIT STICKERS
Categories: Dumplings, Fish*shell, Pork, East/orient
Yield: 64 Appetizers
2 c  Napa/green cabbage,
-finely chopped
1 ts Salt
1/2 lb Shrimp, peel, devein
-finely chopped
1 lb Lean ground pork
2 tb Light-colour soy sauce
2 tb Rice, sherry, or white wine
1 tb Green onion, chopped
1 tb Sesame oil
2 ts Gingerroot, minced
1    Garlic clove, minced
64    Wonton wrappers [=2 pkgs]
1/4 c  Vegetable oil
1 c  Chicken stock, or water
MMMMM-----------------------DIPPING SAUCE----------------------------
2 tb Light-coloured soy sauce
1 tb Rice vinegar
1 ts Gingerroot, minced
1. In bowl, toss cabbage with salt and let stand for 5 minutes;
squeeze out liquid. Squeeze any liquid from shrimp. In large bowl,
mix cabbage, shrimp, pork, soy sauce, wine, onion, oil, ginger and
garlic.

[Filling can be covered and refrigerated for up to 6 hours.]

2. With 3-inch round cutter, cut wonton wrappers into circles, keeping
covered with damp cloth to prevent drying out. Working with 4 warpers
at a time, brush edges lightly with water. On 1 half of each round,
pinch four 1/4-inch pleats.

3. In rounded hollow of each wrapper, place 2 ts filling; fold
pleated side over filling, matching edges and pressing out all air.
Press edges to seal.

4. Arrange, seam side up, on waxed paper-lined sheet, curving into
crescent shape and pressing lightly to flatten bottom.

[Dumplings can be prepared to this point, covered with plastic warp
and refrigerated for up to 24 hours, or frozen, then stored in
airtight container for up to 1 week; thaw in refrigerator before
continuing.]

Cover with damp cloth.

5. in 2 large skillets, heat 1 tb oil per pan over medium-high heat;
fry 16 dumplings in each, flat side down, for 1 minute or until
golden on bottom. Pour 1/4 cup stock into each pan; reduce heat to
low. Cover and cook, without turning, for 7 minutes or until
dumplings are translucent and most of the liquid has evaporated.

6. Uncover and increase heat to medium; cook for 5-7 minutes or until
liquid evaporates and bottoms are dark brown. Drain on paper towel.
Transfer to dish; keep warm. Wipe pan; repeat with remaining
dumplings.

Dipping Sauce: Stir together soy sauce,  vinegar and ginger; serve
with hot or warm dumplings.

Source: Canadian Living magazine, Feb 95 Presented in article "Cooking
Lesson" Recipe by Canadian Living Test Kitchen

[-=PAM=-]   PA_Meadows@msn.com

