Title: CHINESE BEEF STEW
Categories: Chinese, Beef, Ceideburg 2
Yield: 6 Servings
3 lb Brisket of beef or stew beef
4 tb Peanut oil
MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
2 ml Fermented red bean cake *
3 tb Hoisin sauce
4 tb Shaoxing wine or dry sherry
4 tb Thin soy sauce
1 tb Minced garlic
1    Whole star anise
1 ts Roasted and crushed
-Szechwan peppercorns
1 ts Five spice powder
2 ts Sugar
6 c  Water
1 lg (about 1 1/2 to 2 lbs)
-Chinese (icicle) radish,
-roll cut.
Tough beef is most flavorful, but you must simmer it gently for
several hours to soften the sinewy muscle. Slow braising also
encourages an exchange of flavors between the meat and the tangy
sauce, enhancing both. Chinese radish adds just the right bite, much
as turnips would in a Western stew.  In effect, this is Chinese beef
stew.

Game meats or goat meat may be substituted for the beef for a
delicious and unusual variation.  Oxtails can also be braised in this
manner, or even veal shanks. Almost any cut of meat or organ that
requires extensive cooking does well if braised.  The strong sauce
keeps the meat flavorful throughout.

Turnips or carrots may be substituted for the Chinese radish, and
chestnuts have a strong, sweet taste that holds up well to braising.
[Make a diagonal slice, roll daikon 1/4 turn and slice again.
Continue rolling and cutting until done. S.C.]

* [This is nice if you have some laying around, but don't worry if you
don't.  The taste can be somewhat bizarre for a Westerner, but it
won't overwhelm the dish S.C.]

1.  The preferred cut is brisket of beef, a boneless piece of tough
meat from the underside of the steer, because of its rich, gelatinous
texture when cooked. It is sold in Chinese meat markets as Chinese
stew beef. Any tough beef cut can be used, such as boneless chuck and
bottom round.

2.  Trim away the outer layers of fat.

3.  Cut the meat into 1 1/2 inch strips.

4.  Cut the strips into cubes.

5.  Brown the meat on all sides in a wok over a high flame in 3
tablespoons of the oil.  Set it aside.

6.  In the remaining 1 tablespoon of oil, over a high flame, break up
the red bean curd with a spatula.

7.  Add the remaining sauce ingredients.  Bring them to a boil.

8.  Add the beef to the sauce, reduce the heat to a simmer, cover the
wok, and braise the beef for 2 hours. After 1 1/2 hours, add the
roll-cut radish. Cook for 30 minutes more, until both the beef and
radish are tender.

9.  Serve the stew immediately.

Makes 6 servings.

From "Chinese Technique" by Ken Hom with Harvey Steiman. Simon and
Schuster, New York.  1981.

Posted by Stephen Ceideburg December 18 1990.

