Title: CHIRIZU (SPICY DIPPING SAUCE FOR SASHIMI) #1
Categories: Japan, Sauce/gravy
Yield: 1 Servings
5 ts Sake
2    Spring Onions
3 tb Lemon juice
1/8 ts Hichimi Togarashi
4 oz Daikon
3 tb Japanese soy sauce
1 pn MSG
Warm the sake in a small sucepan.  Ignite with a match, off the heat,
and shake tha pan gently until the flame dies out. Pour the sake into
a dish and cool. Put the sake with the grated daikon, onions, soy
sauce, lemon juice, MSG, and the 7 pepper spice into a mixing bowl.
Mix well. To serve, place in small individual dishes and serve with
sea bass, sea bream, or sashimi.

Subj:  Hot and Sour Soup Date: 94-06-07 15:43:56 EDT From: EBWATERS

The soup preparations may be done up to a day in advance. The final
cooking takes little time.

MARINADE: 1 tablespoon soy sauce 1 1/2 teaspoons Chinese rice wine or
dry sherry 2 teaspoons hot chili oil 1/2 teaspoon finely minced fresh
ginger 2 teaspoons finely chopped fresh coriander 1/2 teaspoon
cornstarch 1/2 to 3/4 pound pork loin, cut crosswise against the
grain into thin slivers 1 ounce dried tree ears(about 1/2 cup) 3
tablespoons cornstarch 8 cups unsalted chicken stock 1 small leek,
white part only, cut lengthwise then crosswise into paper-thin half
moons 1/4 cup plus 3 tablespoons soy sauce Kosher salt Freshly ground
black pepper unseasoned Japanese rice wine SOUP TRIMMINGS: 1 small
leek, white part only cut as above 1 small carrot, shredded 1/2 small
fennel, halved lengthwise and cored, then cut crosswise into
paper-thin arcs 1 small rib celery cut crosswise and on the diagonal

Combine th e marinade ingredients in abowl and stir until well
blended. Add the pork and toss well. Seal airtight and marinate in
the refrigerator for 2 to 4 hours or over night. Bring to room
temperature before using, and retoss to loosen the slivers. Soak the
tree ears in 3 cups of cold water for 20 to 30 minutes. When supple,
drain and rinse under cool running water to dislodge any grit. Tear
into nickle size pieces, dicarding any tough or woody bits. About 20
minutes before serving the soup, dissolve the cornstarch in 1/2 cup
of the cold chicken stock and leave the spoon in the bowl. Over a low
heat, bring the remaining stock to a steaming near simmer in a large
non-aluminum pot. While the soup heats, separatly blanch theleeks and
pork in a large saucepan of simmering water. Lower the leek pieces
into the water ina strainer for 5 seconds to wilt, then refresh under
cold water and set aside to drain. Adjust the heat so the water
barley simmers, then slide in the pork and gently stir to separate
the slivers. When the meat is 90 percent cooked, 20 to 45 seconds
depending on the thickness, remove it and spread on a plate to cool.
Don't worry if it is a bit under done; it will cook to completion in
the soup. Once the soup reaches a near simmer, add the soysauce, stir
and taste. Add enough kosher salt to bring out the flavor of the
stock and then enough pepper to zing your lips. the amount needed
will vary depending on the stock used. Last, add the vinegar in a
thin stream, tasting until the flavor is pleasantly sour. You may
need as much as 1/3 cup. When the flovors are strong and balanced,
bring the soup to a simmer, stir the cornstarch mixture to recombine,
then add it to the pot, stirring. Once the soup turns glossy, in 2 to
3 minutes, turn off the heat. Portion among heated soup bowl the tree
ears, pork ribbons, leeks, carrot, fennel and celery. Ladle the
seasoned soup into the bowls and serve immediately Subj: Tsukemono:
Bean Sprout Namasu Date: 94-06-07 15:44:49 EDT From: EBWATERS

93-02-15 05:02:12 EDT
Subj:  Tsukemono: Bean Sprout Namasu
From: BILLbox Posted on: America Online

1/2 lb fresh beansprouts 3 TB white sugar 3 TB white vinegar 1 TB
sesame oil 1 TB finely sliced green onions 1/2 tsp salt sesame seeds

mix all of the above in a plastic container, and let sit at least 6
hours before serving. Can be made the night before.Subj: Neri Shiro
Miso Date: 94-06-07 15:45:35 EDT From: EBWATERS

