Title: HEALTHY&TASTE: DUFFLET'S LIGHT LEMON CHEESECA
Categories: Cakes, Cheese, Desserts, Canadian, Cheesecakes
Yield: 12 Servings
1 c  Plain yogurt, low-fat
1 c  Granulated sugar
1    Lemon, grated rind only
2 c  1% cottage cheese
2    Eggs
4    Egg whites
2 ts Lemon juice
2 ts Vanilla
3/4 lb Light cream cheese, or block
1/4 c  All-purpose flour
Fresh berries
MMMMM---------------------------CRUST--------------------------------
1 c  Graham cracker crumbs
1 tb Unsalted butter, melted
1 1/2 ts Corn syrup
Crust: Line bottom of 9-inch springform pan with parchment or waxed
paper; grease side.

Combine crumbs with butter. Stir together corn syrup with 1 tb water;
stir into crumbs until well mixed. Press into botom of pan. Bake in
375F 190C oven for 10 minutes or until firm to the touch.

Meanwhile, in cheesecloth-lined sieve, drain yogurt for 20 minutes.
In food processor, combine granulated sugar and lemon rind until
sugar is pale yellow colour. Add cottage cheese, eggs and egg whites,
lemon juice and vanilla; process until mixture is very smooth.
Gradually mix in cream cheese until well combined.

Gently press yogurt to squeeze out any remaining liquid. Add yogurt
to food processor along with flour; process just until smooth.

Pour mixture into springform pan; tap on counter to remove air
bubbles. Centre pan on large piece of foil; press tightly around base
of pan. Set pan in larger pan; pour in enough hot water to come
1-inch up side of pan. Bake in 300f 150C oven for 1-1/2 hours or
until edge is set but centre still jiggles slightly. Remove from
oven; let cheesecake stand in pan of water for 20 minutes. Remove
cheesecake from larger pan; remove foil. Let cool to room
temperature. Cover and refrigerate for 8 hours or up to 2 days.

Before serving, gently run knife around side of pan. Arrange berries
over top.

Source: Canadian Living magazine [Mar 95] Presented in an article by
Anne Lindsay. Recipes from Dufflet Rosenberg, Toronto, Canada
[supplier of desserts to restaurants]

[-=PAM=-]    PA_Meadows@msn.com

