Title: HEARTY BLACK BEAN SOUP
Categories: Microwave, Soups & ste
Yield: 5 Servings
2 tb Oil
3 md Onions; chopped
4    Cl Garlic; minced
48 oz Canned black beans (frijoles
-negros) drained & chopped
1 tb Fresh oregano; fine chopped
1/2 ts Ground cumin; or to taste
1/2 ts Fresh thyme; finely chopped
1    Bay leaf
2 c  Cubed ham; cooked
2 c  Chicken stock
1/4 c  Dry sherry
16 oz Canned whole tomatoes;
-drained & chopped
1/4 c  Fresh tomatoes; peeled and
-chopped
Salt & freshly ground pepper
-to taste
Accompaniments:
Fresh lime or lemon wedges
Sour cream
Radishes; thinly sliced
Green onions; sliced
Cilantro leaves
Chile salsa
Recipe by: the California Culinary Academy Preparation Time: 0:45 In a
wide-bottomed, large saucepan over medium heat, heat oil. Add onions
and cook until soft, 3 to 5 minutes. Add garlic and cook 1 minute
longer. Stir in beans, oregano, cumin, thyme, bay leaf, ham, stock,
sherry, and tomatoes.

Increase heat and bring mixture to a boil. Reduce heat and simmer,
uncovered, about 30 minutes. Season to taste with salt, if necessary,
and pepper.  Serve soup with your choice of accompaniments, or cool
to room temperature and refrigerate or freeze.

Makes about 7 cups.

* Timesaver Tip: Soup can be made up to 2 days ahead, covered, and
refrigerated, or it can be frozen. To freeze, spoon soup into one
large or several smaller individual freezer containers. Cover, label,
and freeze at 0 degrees F up to 1 month. To serve, defrost soup 15 to
20 minutes on Defrost setting of microwave, or thaw in refrigerator 8
to 24 hours. Gently warm soup in a saucepan or microwave at 50% power
until it is warmed through. Stir several times both during defrosting
and during reheating.

Microwave Version

Put oil in a 2-quart casserole and microwave on 70% power 45 seconds.
Add onions and microwave another 3 minutes, until onions are soft.
Add garlic and microwave a minute longer. Complete step 2 as directed
above. Cover casserole with waxed paper or loosely with plastic wrap
and microwave, still on 70% power, 30 minutes. Season to taste and
proceed with step 4 as directed above. Preparation time and timesaver
tip same as above.

