Title: HERBED FOCACCIA
Categories: Breads, Italian
Yield: 8 Servings
1 pk Dry yeast
1 ts Sugar
1 c  Warm water (105-115F)
2 1/3 c  Bread flour
1/3 c  Cornmeal
1 1/4 ts Salt
1/2 c  Light-tasting olive oil
2 lg Garlic cloves; minced
1 ts Dried rosemary
1 ts Dried basil
1 ts Dried oregano
Kosher salt
1 tb Fresh chives, snipped
1 tb Fresh parsley, minced
1 tb Red pepper flakes
A small amount of cornmeal gives this focaccia--a flat bread--a
perfect texture for improvised open sandwiches. You might start with
thinly sliced salami and cheese. PREHEAT OVEN TO 450F. Fifteen
minutes before baking focaccia, put rack in center of oven. If you
have 2 ovens, preheat both; otherwise bake focaccias in sequence, one
after the other. Generously oil 2 large baking sheets, preferably
black steel. Stir yeast and sugar into warm water. Let stand until
foamy, about 5 minutes. Mix flour, cornmeal and salt in food
processor fitted with metal blade (can also be kneaded with mixer
dough hook or by hand). Turn on processor. Slowly pour yeast mixture
through feed tube. Also pour 2 tablespoons oil through. Process until
dough cleans inside of work bowl but is still moist. If it sticks,
add a little flour; if it's dry, add a little water. Once dough is
moist but not so wet that it sticks to sides of bowl, process until
uniformly kneaded, elastic and supple, about 40 seconds. Transfer
dough to large plastic food bag, squeeze out air and seal at top,
allowing room for dough to expand. Let dough rise in warm spot until
doubled, about 1 hour. Punch down; use immediately or refrigerate
overnight. Combine remaining 6 tablespoons oil, garlic and dried
herbs. Gently heat until warm (not hot) on stove top or microwave
oven. Divide dough in half. Let rest 5 minutes. On floured board,
roll each piece into about a 12-inch round. Transfer to prepared
baking sheets. Prick surface with fork. Brush with oil mixture,
including edges. Sprinkle with Kosher salt. Bake, one at a time,
until very lightly browned around edges only, about 8-10 minutes. Do
not overbake. Check after 2 minutes in oven; prick any air pockets
with fork. Brush with any remaining oil, including edges. Sprinkle
with fresh herbs and pepper flakes. Can be baked in advance and
frozen. To do so, cool completely, freeze and then wrap airtight. Let
thaw in wrapping. To reheat, place in cold oven and set at 300F. Bake
until hot, about 5-7 minutes. Cut into wedges and serve hot. Yield: 2
12-inch rounds.

