Title: HERE'S A BAGEL RECIPE #2
Categories: Breads
Yield: 4 Servings  Once the dough has risen, turn it onto your work surface, punch it
down, and divide immediately into as many hunks as you want to make
bagels. For this recipe, you will probably end up with about 15
bagels, so you will divide the dough into 15 roughly even-sized
hunks. Begin forming the bagels. There are two schools of thought on
this. One method of bagel formation involves shaping the dough into a
rough sphere, then poking a hole through the middle with a finger and
then pulling at the dough around the hole to make the bagel. This is
the hole-centric method. The dough-centric method involves making a
long cylindrical "snake" of dough and wrapping it around your hand
into a loop and mashing the ends together. Whatever you like to do is
fine. DO NOT, however, give in to the temptation of using a doughnut
or cookie cutter to shape your bagels. This will pusht them out of
the realm of Jewish Bagel Authenticity and give them a distinctly
Protestant air. The bagels will not be perfectly shaped. They will
not be symmetrical. This is normal. This is okay. Enjoy the
diversity. Just like snowflakes, no two genuine bagels are exactly
alike.

Begin to preheat the oven to 400 degrees Farenheit.

Once the bagels are formed, let them sit for about 10 minutes. They
will begin to rise slightly.  Ideally, they will rise by about
one-fourth volume... a technique called "half-proofing" the dough. At
the end of the half-proofing, drop the bagels into the simmering
water one by one. You don't want to crowd them, and so there should
only be two or three bagels simmering at any given time.  The bagels
should sink first, then gracefully float to the top of the simmering
water. If they float, it's not a big deal, but it does mean that
you'll have a somewhat more bready (and less bagely) texture.  Let
the bagel simmer for about three minutes, then turn them over with a
skimmer or a slotted spoon. Simmer another three minutes, and then
lift the bagels out of the water and set them on a clean kitchen
towel that has been spread on the countertop for this purpose. The
bagels should be pretty and shiny, thanks to the malt syrup or sugar
in the boiling water.

Once all the bagels have been boiled, prepare your baking sheets by
sprinkling them with cornmeal.  Then arrange the bagels on the
prepared baking sheets and put them in the oven. Let them bake for
about 25 mintues, then remove from the oven, turn them over and put
them back in the oven to finish baking for about ten minutes more.
This will help to prevent flat-bottomed bagels.

Remove from the oven and cool on wire racks, or on a dry clean towels
if you have no racks.  Do not attempt to cut them until they are
cool... hot bagels slice abominably and you'll end up with a wadded
mass of bagel pulp. Don't do it.

Serve with good cream cheese.

TO CUSTOMIZE BAGELS: After boiling but before baking, brush the
bagels with a wash made of 1 egg white and 3 tablespoons ice water
beaten together. Sprinkle with the topping of your choice: poppy,
sesame, or caraway seeds, toasted onion or raw garlic bits, salt or
whatever you like. Just remember that bagels are essentially a savory
baked good, not a sweet one, and so things like fruit and sweet
spices are really rather out of place. Submitted By
HUNT@AUSTIN.METROWERKS.COM (ERIC HUNT) On 15 MAR 1995
064641    ~0700

