Title: HOLUBTSI Z RIZHOM I HRIBAMI (STUFFED CABBAGE)
Categories: Vegetables, Russian
Yield: 6 Servings
1 oz Mushrooms, imported dried;
-well rinsed
1 1/2 c  Rice; uncooked
2 c  ;Water
Salt; to taste
8 tb Oil
1 1/2 c  Onion; chopped
10 oz Mushroom; fresh, sliced
2 tb Dill weed; chopped
Pepper, black; to taste
12 md Cabbage leaf
1/4 c  Flour
1 c  Stock, vegetable
28 oz Tomato, plum; crushed, with
-juice reserved
2 tb Vinegar, cider
1 ts Sugar
Bouquet garni
per serving: 387 Fat grams per serving: 2 Approx. Cook
Calories
Time: 1:20

Soak the dried mushrooms in 1 cup water for one hour. Drain the mush-
rooms, dry, chop finely, and set aside. Strain the soaking liquid
through a coffee filter. Combine the rice, 2 cups water, and the
soaking liquid in a large pot and bring to a boil. Add the salt,
reduce the heat to low, cover, and simmer until the rice is almost
tender and the liquid absorbed; about 15 minutes.  Remove from the
heat.

Heat 3 tablespoons of the oil in a large heavy skillet over medium
heat. Add the onions and the dried mushrooms and saute, stirring,
until the onions are deeply browned; about 15 minutes. Add to the
rice and wipe out the skillet.  Heat 2 tablespoons of the oil in the
same skillet over medium-high heat.  Add the fresh mushrooms and
saute until they are golden brown; about 15 minutes. Add the
mushrooms and dill to the rice. Season with salt and pepper and mix
well.

Preheat the oven to 350 F. Scald the cabbage leaves in salted boiling
water for about five minutes.  Drain thoroughly and pat dry with
paper towels. With a sharp knife, cut out the tough center vein from
each leaf. Divide the stuffing evenly among the leaves, placing it
toward the base of each leaf.  Tuck in the sides, and roll the leaves
up, pressing in the ends firmly as you roll.  In a large oven-proof
casserole or Dutch oven that can accommodate all the rolls, heat the
remaining 3 tablespoons oil over medium heat. Roll the stuffed rolls
in flour and brown over medium heat on all sides; about 15 minutes.
Add the stock and tomatoes and bring to a boil. Stir in the remaining
ingredients. Bake, uncovered, until the cabbage is tender; about 40
minutes.  Remove the bouquet garni before serving.

--- Please to the Table
von Bremzen and Welchman

