Title: HONEY & BACON FRIED CHICKEN WITH LEMON GRAVY
Categories: Poultry
Yield: 4 Servings
1    Chicken; about 4 lbs,cut in
-serving pieces
1/4 c  Honey
2 tb White wine vinegar
4    Bacon strips
1/2 c  Vegetable shortening
3 tb Flour, all purpose
3 tb Whole wheat flour
-Salt &
-freshly ground black pepper
1/4 c  Chicken stock
1 c  Heavy or whipping cream
1 ts Lemon juice
1 ds Hot pepper sauce
1 ts Chives;fresh chopped
"Matchless recipes stem from unlikely places. This recipe was
uncovered in a "bed-and-breakfast" establishment not far from
Nashville, Tennessee ... When the meal was praised to the heavens,
the owner admitted the recipe was not exactly her own. Her
grandmother brough a honey-baked chicken as part of dowry when she
sailed from Scotland to America in the late nineteenth century. In
the intervening years, she altered her chicken to its present
sensational rendition. After I ate extra portions for two days, she
generously donated the recipe."

Place the chicken in a shallow glass dish or ceramic bowl. Combine the
honey with the vinegar and pour over the chicken, turning the pieces
to coat with the mixture. Let stand, covered, 2 hours. Saute the
bacon in a 12-15 inch cast iron skillet till crisp. Drain on paper
towels. Crumble and set aside. Add the vegetable shortening to the
bacon drippings. Heat over medium-low heat until hot. Meanwhile,
remove the chicken pieces from the marinade and pat dry. Combine the
flours, with the salt and pepper to taste on a plate. Coat the
chicken pieces well with the flour mixture. Set aside 1 Tbsp of the
flour mixture. Gently place the floured chicken skin side down in the
hot grease. Slowly fry the chicken pieces until crisp and the juices
run yellow when pricked with a fork, about 20 minutes on each side.
Preheat the oven to 375F. Drain the chicken pieces on a paper bag and
place on a shallow heatproof serving platter. Place in the oven 12 to
15 minutes. Meanwhile, discard all but 1 Tbsp drippings from the
skillet. Stir in the reserved 1 Tbsp floure mixture. Cook, stirring
constantly, 2 minutes. Whisk in the chicken stock and cream, scraping
the sides and the bottom of the skillet. Cook over medium heat until
thickened, about 5 minutes. Reduce heat to low and stir in the lemon
juice and hot pepper sauce. Add salt and pepper to taste. Stir in the
chives. Spoon some of the gravy over the chicken pieces and sprinkle
with the reserved bacon. Pass the remaining gravy on the side.
SERVES: 4

Source:"As American as Apple Pie" by Phillip Stephen Schultz

