Title: HONEY WHEAT BREAD - IN A BAG
Categories: Breads
Yield: 40 Servings
MMMMM------------------------INGREDIENTS-----------------------------
4 c  All purpose flour
3 1/4 c  Whole wheat flour
2 pk Active dry yeast
2 1/2 c  Warm water
1/4 c  Honey
1/4 c  Non-fat dry milk powder
2 tb Vegetable oil
1 tb Salt
DIRECTIONS: 1. Combine 1 C all purpose flour, 2 pkg yeast, 1 C warm
water and 1 T honey in a 2 gal heavy duty freeze plastic bag (Ziploc
Jumbo) 2. Squeeze upper part of bag to force out air. Close top of
bag tightly between thumb and index finger. Rest bag on table, mix by
working bag with fingers about 20 seconds or until all ingredients
are completely blended. Let bag rest about 15 minutes. 3. Add
remaining ingredients, except flour. 4. Mix by working bag with
fingers. Add Whole wheat flour; mix thoroughly. Then gradually add
remaining all purpose flour until a stiff dough is formed, about
2-1/2 C or until dough pulls away from bag. 5. Turn dough out onto
floured surface.  Divide dough in half. Knead each half 5 minutes or
until dough is smooth and elastic. Add more flour, if necessary.
Cover with plastic bag.  Let rest 10 minutes. 6. Flatten dough into a
12 x 7 inch rectangle. At narrow end fold corners to center to form a
point. Beginning with point roll dough tightly towards you. Pinch the
edges to seal. Press dough at each end to seal and fold ends under.
7. Place seam down in a greased 8-1/2 x 4-1/2 x 2-1/4 loaf pan.
Repeat with second loaf. 8. Cover loosely with plastic bag and let
rise in warm place 45-60 minute or until doubled.  Uncover.  Bake on
lower rack in 400 F oven 30-35 minutes or until deep golden brown.
Remove from pan immediately. Cool on rack. Makes 2 (1-3/4 lb) loaves.
------- VARIATIONS: MOUNTAIN TOP BREAD:
Brush tops with melted butter or margarine. Sprinkle with all purpose
flour.  Repeat with second loaf. Let rise 45-60 minutes. Before
baking, carefully make a shallow cut with sharp knife down center of
each loaf. Bake as directed. COUNTRY CRUST BREAD: After greasing loaf
pans, coat bottoms and sides of pans with whole wheat germ, wheat
bran or whole wheat flour.  Shape loaves; place seam side down in
prepared pans. Brush tops of loaves with vegetable oil. Sprinkle tops
of loaves with 1/4 C wheat germ or whole wheat flour. Let rise and
bake as directed. ICED HONEY RAISIN BREAD: For two loaves, in small
bowl, mix together 1 C raisins, 1/2 C packed brown sugar and 2 tsp
cinnamon. Flatten each dough piece into 12 x 7 inch rectangle and
brush each piece with softened butter or margarine. Sprinkle raisin
mixture on dough. Press raisins in lightly. Shape into loaves, let
rise and bake as directed. When cool, frost loaves with Easy Icing.
Beat until smooth 1 C powdered sugar and about 1 T hot water. PARTY
BUNDT BREAD: Shape loaves as directed except do not seal ends. Pinch
loaves together to form a ring.  Place ring seam side up in greased
12 C bundt pan. Let rise until dough reaches top of bundt pan, about
45-60 min. Bake in 375 F oven 40-45 min.  Invert immediately and cool
on rack. When cool, drizzle with Honey-Nut Glaze. Stirring
constantly, bring to boil 1/4 C coarsely chopped nuts, 1/4 C packed
brown sugar, 1/4 C honey and 2 T butter or margarine. SOFT AND SALTY
PRETZELS. Divide dough into 24 equal pieces. Roll each piece into 18
inch rope. Twist ropes into pretzel shape and place on greased baking
sheets.  Brush pretzels with vegetable oil and sprinkle with coarse
salt.  Cover; let rise until doubled, about 1/2 hour. Bake in 425
oven 15 to 20min or until golden brown. Cool on rack and store in
container with loose fitting cover.
-------- SUBSTITUTIONS: Molasses, brown
sugar or granulated sugar may be used in place of honey. 1 C lukewarm
milk and 1-1/2 C warm water may be used in place of nonfat dry milk
and water. Softened butter or margarine may be used in place of
vegetable oil. All purpose flour may be used in place of whole wheat
flour. Two 9x5x3 inch loaf pans may be used.

From Wheat Flour Institute, Washington, D.C. 20006 -
1979    From Files of A.Broaddus

