Title: HONEY-MUSTARD CHICKEN
Categories: Chicken, Low-cal
Yield: 6 Servings
MMMMM-----------------------JUDI M. PHELPS----------------------------
1 lb Boneless, chicken breasts;
-skinless and trimmed of all
-fat
1/2 ts Salt; optional
1/4 ts Black pepper
2 ts Tub-style margarine; canola
-or corn oil
1 c  Onion; chopped
1 cl Garlic; minced
1 1/4 c  Chicken broth; defatted and
-divided
2 tb Mild honey
2 tb Lemon juice
1/4 ts Salt; or to taste optional
1 1/2 c  Cauliflower florets
1 lg Carrot; peeled and thinly
-sliced
1/4 c  ;water
1 tb Cornstarch
2 tb Dijon-style mustard
1 1/4 c  Long-grain white rice
-uncooked
Cut chicken into small bite-sized pieces.  Sprinkle with 1/2 teaspoon
salt, if desired, and pepper.  In large nonstick, spray- coated
skillet, cook chicken pieces over medium heat, turning frequently
with large wooden or plastic spoon, 7-10 minutes or until they begin
to brown and are cooked through.  Remove and set aside in medium
bowl. In same skillet, combine margarine, onion, garlic, and 3
tablespoons broth. Cook over medium heat, stirring frequently, 6-7
minutes or until onion is tender. If liquid begins to evaporate, add
a bit more broth. Add honey and lemon juice to pan with onions, and
stir to combine well. Stir in remaining chicken broth and salt, if
desired. Stir in reserved chicken, cauliflower, and carrot. Bring to
a boil.  Cover, reduce heat, and simmer 20 minutes or until flavors
are blended.  Meanwhile, cook rice according to package directions.

Combine water and cornstarch.  Stir into simmering sauce and cook,
stirring, until thickened.  Stir in mustard. Simmer an additional 1
or 2 minutes. Arrange rice on large serving platter. Top with chicken
and sauce. Or serve individual portions over rice.

Judi's Notes:  I have not tried this dish but cooking cauliflower for
20 minutes is just too long.  I would advise 10 minutes tops to keep
it's bright color and not become mushy.

Per serving:  Calories 271, fat: 3.5 g.  Exchanges: Veg 2, Bread 2,
Protein 1.5.  Source:  Skinny One-pot Meals by Ruth Glick.

Shared and MM by Judi M. Phelps. Internet: Judi.Phelps@sjc.com or
JPHELPS@nvn.com

