Title: HONEY-ROAST CHICKEN
Categories: Chicken
Yield: 6 Servings
-JUDI M. PHELPS
2    Roasting chickens; (3-1/2
-to 4 lbs each)
1/2 c  Unsalted butter or margarine
-(1 stick)
1/2 c  Yellow onion; finely chopped
2 lg Garlic cloves; finely
-chopped
1/2 c  Dijon-style mustard
1/2 c  Mild honey
1/4 c  Dried currants
2 tb Peach or mango chutney;
-finely chopped
1 ts Mild curry powder
1 ts Salt; optional
Remove the chicken backs and reserve (freeze) to make stock. Cut each
chicken into 8 serving pieces.  Rinse the chicken pieces and pat dry
with paper towel.

In a 1-1/2 to 2-quart saucepan, melt the butter over medium-high
heat. Cook the onion and garlic for 3 to 5 minutes, or until
softened. Add the remaining ingredients except the chicken and stir
until combined.

Dip each piece of chicken in the honey mixture, coating the chicken
completely.  Place the chicken pieces, skin side up, in a shallow
baking pan.  Spoon the remaining sauce over the chicken.

Place the baking pan in a cold oven and set the temperature at 400
degrees F.  Bake for about 1 hour, or until the chicken is cooked
through. (If your baking pan will not accommodate all the pieces,
divide them between 2 baking pans, position the oven racks in the
upper and lower third of the oven, and switch the pans halfway
through baking.) Transfer the chicken to a warmed serving platter.
You may serve it hot, at room temperature, or slightly chilled.

Tips for Leftovers:  In addition to reheating well, this chicken
makes a fabulous chicken salad.  Just remove the skin and tear the
meat into bite-size pieces. Add some coarsely chopped Golden
Delicious apples (no need to remove the peel), coarsely chopped
toasted almonds, dried currants, and minced scallions. Make a
dressing with mayonnaise, some Dijon-style mustard, and a touch of
honey. Toss the chicken with just enough dressing to bind, and season
with salt and freshly ground pepper to taste. Serve with a green
salad and some crusty rolls and you've got yourself a tasty lunch or
a light supper.  Source:  Lauren Groveman's Cooking School,
Larchmont, NY.

Shared and MM by Judi M. Phelps. jphelps@shell.portal.com or
jphelps@best.com

