Title: HONEY INFORMATION
Categories: Info/tips
Yield: 6 Servings
1    Information
1.Honey is one of the few food low in pesticidal contamination.
Contaminated bees die before they reach the hive. Honey is also free
of preservatives, artificial flavors, colors and will not mold.
2.Honey will not freeze, so store it almost anywhere in a solid
container with a tight lid. If crystallized, place honey jar in pan
of hot water. Don't heat very hot as flavor and nutrition changes
dramatically. Also,honey that has been diluted with water will
ferment. 3.Freezing bread with honey used as a sweetening agent is
not advise,since honey deteriorates when frozen. This can cause
"mushiness" upon thawing. 4.Always mix honey thoroughly with other
recipe ingredients before turning mixture into baking pans. This will
prevent a too moist, over sweetened layer from collecting on the top.
Make it a rule to combine honey with theliquid ingredients to assure
complete distribution in the mixture. 5.When using honey is
substitution for sugar in standard recipes, a general rule is to
reduce the amount of another liquid ingredient by 1/2 cup for each
cup of honey used to replace sugar. 6.Honey can generally replace 1/2
of the required sugar without changing the proportions of the other
ingredients in the recipe. Honey absorbs and retains moisture, thus
retarding the drying out and staling of baked goods. This is
especially important when you want to bake in advance. 7.Be sure to
keep honey covered. When left uncovered, honey picks up other odors
and loses its own aroma. Honey is storage usually gets darker in
color and stronger in flavor, but remains useful as ever. So if you
plan to store honey it may be better to start out with a light
colored honey. 8.Pure honey usually becomes granulated as it ages, or
if stored at cold temperatures.  Granulation is a natural aging
process and does not affect the honey except for color and flavor. To
bring granulated honey back to liquid form, simply place the
container of honey in a pan of warm water until the granules
disappear. If more heat is required, keep the containuer off the
bottom of the pan of water, by putting a rack under it, and setting
the pan over low heat. Be careful not to overheat granulated honey,
since too much heat causes the honey to change color and flavor. It's
easier to degranulate smaller amounts of honey.

