Title: HORCHATA DE ARROZ - COLD RICE DRINK
Categories: Beverages
Yield: 6 Servings
Stephen Ceideburg
1 c  Rice
1    Piece (2 inches) true
-(Ceylon) cinnamon stick or
1    Piece (1 inch) U.S.
-"cinnamon" (see editor's
-note)
2 c  Boiling water
5    To 6 cups cold water
1/2    Lime, juice only
1 ts Ground true (Ceylon)
-cinnamon or: *
1/2 ts Ground U.S. "cinnamon" (see
-editor's note)
3 tb To 4 tb sugar, or to taste
* preferably fresh ground in a spice grinder

If you travel to Mexico, you will see many street stands selling only
fresh cold beverages. Most are made from fresh fruit. This, which
like the French orgeat must go back to some medieval Mediterranean
original, is the mysterious white one that you will see in the glass
jugs. It's one of my favorite drinks. My son Rodrigo always begs me
to make this refreshing drink, which is still a favorite remedy for
children with digestive upsets.

Place the rice and cinnamon stick in a small saucepan. Add the boiling
water and let soak until the water is white and milky. Bring to a
boil over medium-high heat. Reduce the heat to low and simmer,
uncovered, until partly softened but not fluffed up, about 15
minutes. Discard the cinnamon stick and let the rice cool, covered.
Working in several batches, purse the rice mixture in a blender or
food mill. The mixture may be sticky and hard to work with; use the
cold water a little at a time if necessary to thin. With a wooden
spoon or pusher, force the mixture through a medium-mesh sieve (you
can use more of the cold water to help rinse it through). Combine the
strained pursed rice with the lime juice, ground cinnamon, and sugar
to taste. Add the remaining cold water gradually until the horchata
is the consistency of a not-too-heavy cream soup (use a little more
if desired). Taste and add more sugar, lime juice, or cinnamon if
desired, but the flavor should be delicate and slightly bland. Chill
thoroughly and serve with ice.

Yield: About 1 1/2 quarts.

Editor's note: Martinez says the U.S. product called cinnamon is not
the same as the cinnamon, imported from Sri Lanka (Ceylon), that's
sold in Mexico. The bark is thinner, and it's medium tan, not reddish
brown. The Sri Lankan type also is known as soft-stick cinnamon. It
may be available at some Mexican markets.

Recipe from "Food From My Heart" by Zarela Martinez. Naomi Kaufman
Price writing in the Oregonian's FOODday, 1/12/93.

Posted by Stephen Ceideburg

