Title: HOT OR COLD LEEK SOUP
Categories: Soups, Vegetables, Tabasco
Yield: 6 Servings
1    Leek, (About 8 Ounces) *
2 tb Olive Oil
1    Onion, (About 6 Ounces),
Peeled And Sliced
6 c  Chicken Stock
1 1/2 lb Potatoes, Peeled And Cut
Into 2-Inch Cubes
Salt To Taste (Depending On
Saltiness Of Stock)
1/2 ts Freshly Ground Black Pepper
Bread Croutons, For Garnish
MMMMM-----------------------FOR COLD SOUP----------------------------
2 1/2 c  Cold Milk
6 tb Chives, Chopped
1/4 ts Tabasco Sauce
Remove the root end and any damaged outer leaves from the leek, but
leave the remainder of the leaves intact. Split the leek in half
lengthwise, and cut it into 1/2-inch pieces. Clean the leek by
immersing the pieces in a bowl filled with cold water.  Lift the
pieces from the water and place them in a sieve to drain. Heat the
oil in a pot. When hot, add the leek and sliced onion, and cook over
medium heat for about 5 minutes, until they soften and begin to brown
lightly. Add the stock, potatoes, salt and pepper, and bring to the
boil. Boil for 30 to 40 minutes, until the potatoes are tender.
Strain off most of the cooking juices and reserve them. Add the
solids with a little of the juices to the bowl of a food processor,
and process briefly, just until pureed. (If too much liquid is added
to the processor bowl, the mixture will become too foamy.) Stir the
puree into the reserved juices. You should have about 7 cups. The hot
soup can be served immediately, either plain or with croutons. FOR
COLD SOUP: Cool the soup and stir in the milk, chives and Tabasco
sauce. Serve cold. Serves 6. *If you cannot find leeks, add
additional onions or scallions; the soup will be very good, although
it won't have the unique taste that leeks give to soup. If using
leeks or scallions, be sure to make use of the green as well as the
white part of the vegetables, after trimming them first, of course,
to eliminate any damaged or wilted sections. The green leaves lend
color as well as taste and texture to the soup. Recipe from "Cuisine
Economique" by Jacques Pepin. Source: Cuisine Economique - J. Pepin

