Title: HOT RUM TODDY
Categories: Drinks, Alcohol
Yield: 12 Servings
1 lb Dark brown sugar
1/2 lb Butter, salted
1 ts Nutmeg, ground
1 ts Cinnamon, ground
1 ts Cloves, ground
1 ts White cardamom,
-ground
Dark rum, top-quality
-(a standard "fifth"
-will serve 12)
MAKING THE BATTER:  Put all batter ingredients (everything but the
rum) in a food processor and run it until the mixture turns creamy.
Fold it down once with a rubber spatula to make sure the spices are
blended in, and run the food processor some more.

Scoop the mixture into a plastic container, and refrigerate. It will
keep for many months in the refrigerator, even though it contains
butter.

MAKING THE DRINKS:  Fill a coffee mug half full of boiling water. The
easiest way to do this is to put a mug of hot water in the microwave.
If you don't have a microwave, then fill the mug with boiling water,
pour it out, then fill it half full of boiling water.

Add about 2 generous tablespoons of batter.  Stir until the batter
dissolves in the hot water. I use a small wire whisk for this
stirring.

Add 2 jiggers (about 3 oz) of the best rum you can afford. When I
make this in quantities for parties I like to use Myers Dark Rum.

NOTES:

*  Ultimate hot buttered rum recipe -- I started making hot buttered
rum from a Trader Vic recipe 15 years ago, and I have gradually
evolved it by adding more spices, more butter and less rum.

The way you make a hot buttered rum is to add some "batter" to some
rum, and heat it. I like to keep a made-up batch of the batter in the
refrigerator in an old margarine tub. For parties I make up a fresh
batch.

*  One theory of hot-toddy making is that it is impossible to use too
much batter, and you should keep stirring more in until you are bored
with stirring. Another theory of hot-toddy making is that it is
impossible to use too much rum, and that you should keep stirring in
more until your friends panic.

: Difficulty:  easy.
: Time:  5 minutes.
: Precision:  no need to measure.

: Brian Reid
: DEC Western Research Laboratory, Palo Alto, CA

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
: reid@decwrl.DEC.COM

