Title: HOT FUDGE SAUCE (CEIDEBURG)
Categories: Desserts
Yield: 1 Servings
Text Only
The other day I bought some vanilla ice cream to go with a can of
chocolate sauce I'd bought about a week before. I bought the
chocolate sauce to go on some ice cream that I didn't realize had
been eaten by my roomy. When we got home, the chocolate sauce ended
up in the bag belonging to a friend that we'd gone shopping with. So,
unbeknownst to me, I didn't actually have any chocolate sauce to put
on my newly acquired vanilla ice cream. I had bought chocolate sauce
to go on non- existent ice cream and then bought ice cream to smother
with the by then non-existent chocolate sauce. I didn't find this out
until stricken by a severe attack of chocolate craving about midnight.

I ransacked the kitchen to no avail.  Nada, zilch, zip chocolate
sauce. "Ah-ha!" I thought...  "I'm a cook++I'll just make some.
Yeah++ that's it, I'll make some!" Right...

Oooopppsss...  No chocolate.  Hmmm.  But wait++here's some coco
powder. A quick consultation with Irma and Marion told me I could
make a substitute for chocolate using coco powder. Three tablespoons
powder to 1 tablespoon butter = 1 oz. chocolate.  Bingo!  We're in
business now...

So I followed the following recipe making the pertinent
substitutions...

The grand kind that, when cooked for the longer period and served hot,
grows hard on ice cream and enraptures children.

Melt in a double boiler, over++not in++hot water:  2 oz. unsweetened
chocolate.  [I used six tablespoons coco powder and 2 tablespoons
butter. S.C.]

Add and melt:  1 tablespoon butter.

Stir and blend well, then add:  1/2 cup boiling water.

Stir well and add:  1 cup sugar and 2 tablespoons corn syrup. [I had
exactly two tablespoons left in the bottle. Whew! S.C.]

Permit the sauce to boil readily, but not too furiously, over direct
heat. Do not stir.  If you wish an ordinary sauce, boil it for 5
minutes. If you wish a hot sauce that will harden over ice cream,
boil it for about 8 minutes.  Add just before serving:  1 teaspoon
vanilla or 2 teaspoons rum.

When cold, this sauce is very thick.  It may be reheated over boiling
water.

Makes 1 cup.

From "The Joy of Cooking", Vol II, Irma S.  Rombauer and Marion
Rombauer Becker, 1964.  Signet.

I tossed the cocoa powder and the butter in a sauce pan over low heat
(none of this double boiler nonsense), melted the butter and stirred
it until everything blended, then proceeded with the recipe as
directed. Guess what? It worked out GREAT!  The sauce was just a tad
grainy++ evidently I didn't cook it long enough to quite dissolve all
the sugar. But what the heck++I'm a texture food freak anyway so I
didn't see it as a drawback. And the taste really was good.

Posted by Stephen Ceideberg; September 28 1992.

