Title: HOT CHILE PEPPER TWISTS ABM
Categories: Breads, Kooknet, Cyberealm
Yield: 6 Servings
1 c  Water; plus
2 tb Water; (if needed)
2 tb Oil
1/3 c  Cilantro Leaves; lightly
-packed
1 1/2 ts Salt
1/2 c  Cornmeal
2 1/4 c  Flour
1 1/2 ts Sugar
2 ts Yeast
MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
16 oz Black or Refried Beans
16 oz Black Olives; drained
4 1/2 oz Green Chiles; chopped
1/2 c  Salsa
8 oz Monterey Jack Cheese;
-shredded
Place all dough ingredients except cilantro in pan. Program for knead
and first rise. Program a kitchen timer to go off 10 minutes before
the end of the machine's second kneading cycle. Check the dough when
timer goes off and adjust with flour or water if needed. Add the
cilantro. While the dough is rising, prepare the filling. When dough
is finished transfer to lightly greased work surface.

Divide the dough in half.  Working with one half at a time, roll it
into a 15 x 10" rectangle.  Transfer the rectangle to a lightly
greased cookie sheet.  Visually divide the rectangle into thirds,
each 10 x 5". Working on the middle third of the dough, and leaving
1" of space at each end, layer on half the beans, half the olives,
half the chilies, half the salsa and then half the cheese.

Using a rolling pizza wheel or a sharp knife, make 6 evenly space 5"
long cuts in the dough, cutting from the edge of one side of the
unfilled sides just to where the filling starts. Repeat with the
other unfilled side. Fold the small piece of dough at each end of the
filling, tucking them underneath the dough on the opposite side.
Repeat the entire process with the other piece of dough. Tent the
twists with lightly greased plastic wrap and set them aside to rise
for 1 hour, or until they're noticeably puffy. Bake the twists in a
preheated 375øF oven for 30 minutes. Remove the twists from the oven,
transfer them to a wire rack, and allow them to cool for 10 minutes
before cutting.

Source: Pizza Etc. From Your Bread Machine Typed by Meg Antczak, Fido
Cooking Conference 07-19-95 Revised for Meal-Master Format by
Katherine Smith

