Title: HOT & SPICY BANANA CATSUP
Categories: Condiments, Sauces
Yield: 7 Cups
1 c  Seedless raisins
1 c  Onion; chopped
3 lg Cloves garlic
1 cn (6 ounces) tomato paste
8 lg Bananas, very ripe
4 c  Up to 6 cups water
1 c  Brown sugar; firmly packed
1 tb Salt
1 ts Cayenne pepper
1/2 c  Light corn syrup
4 ts Allspice; ground
1 1/2 ts Nutmeg; grated
1 ts Black pepper; ground
1/2 ts Cloves; ground
1/4 c  Dark Jamaican rum
2 2/3 c  Cider vinegar
1 1/2 ts Cinnamon; ground
Combine raisins, onion, garlic and tomato past in container of food
processor or electric blender. Whirl until smooth puree, adding a
little vinegar if necessary to help the pureeing. Pour into large
heavy or dutch oven. Peel  bananas. Cut into chunks. Puree in food
processor or blender, adding    vinegar, if necessary, to help
pureeing. Add to mixture in saucepan. Add remaining vinegar, 4 cups
water, brown sugar, salt and cayenne; stir to blend. Bring to boiling
over medium-high heat, stirring frequently. Lower heat to medium-low.
Cook, uncovered, stirring often, for 1-1/4 hours. If mixture becomes
too thick and threatens to stick, add enough water to just moisten.
After 1-1/4 hours, add corn syrup, allspice, cinnamon, nutmeg, pepper
and cloves. Continue to cook, stirring frequently, 15 minutes. Remove
from heat. To test for thickness: Spoon catsup on chilled saucer.
Chill in refrigerator. A fingertip should leave a track when drawn
through catsup. If catsup has jellied, thin with little extra vinegar
and water, equal amounts of each. Let catsup cool slightly.

Working in batches, puree in food processor or blender. Or, push
through fine-mesh sieve. Return puree to rinsed-out saucepan. Taste
for hotness, adding more cayenne, if you wish. (The flavor will
become more pronounced after catsup has mellowed, so be cautious
about adding more.) Meanwhile, wash half-pint or pint or other
canning jars or bottles, and lids and bands in hot soapy water.
Rinse. Leave jars in hot water. Place lids and bands in saucepan of
simmering water. Return catsup to boiling over medium heat, stirring
constantly. Add rum; stir to combine. Ladle boiling catsup into hot,
clean canning jars, leaving 1/4-inch headspace. Wip jar rims and
threads clean with clean, damp cloth. Cover jars with hot lids; screw
on bands firmly. Process jars in boiling water bath for 15 minutes
(water should cover jars by 1-2 inches). Remove jars from boiling
water to wire racks to cool. Test for seals. Label, date and store in
cool, dark place for up to one year. Catsup is ready to serve after
ripening. Contributor: Peggy Makalondra  (MM format by Roy Olsen)

