Title: HOT EGGS & SHREDDED VEGETABLE SALAD
Categories: Salads, Vietnam, Update
Yield: 1 Servings
MMMMM------------------------EGG PANCAKES-----------------------------
2 ea Eggs
1/4 ts Nuoc Mam or light soy sauce.
Freshly ground black pepper
1/2 ts Water]
1 tb Vegetable oil.
MMMMM---------------------SALAD INGREDIENTS--------------------------
2 oz Bean thread vermicelli
4 ea Dried chicnese mushrroms
1 tb Sesame seeds
2 ea Cloves garlic, crushed.
Salt
2 tb Rice vinegar
1 1/2 ts Sugar
2 tb Soysauce
2 tb Sesame oil
1 c  Snow peas, thinly sliced
1/2 c  Bamboo shoots, thinly sliced
1 sm Carrot, peeled and thinly
-sliced
1 sm Daikon peeled and thinly
-sliced
1 sm Cucumber, peeled, seeded
-and thinly sliced.
1 sm Green bell pepper, thinly
-sliced
2 ea Celery stalks, thinly sliced
1 sm Red bell pepper thinly
-sliced.
1 sm Red onion thinly sliced
Salt
1 tb Roasted ground peanuts
Freshly ground black pepper
Fresh cilantro sprigs.
1 ea Soak the vermicelli warm
-water for 30 minutes,
-drain and cut into 2 inch
lengths (use scissors).  Soak the mushrooms for 30 minutes, discard
stems and slice thinly. 2. Make egg pancakes by beating together the
egg mixture. Heat oil over moderate heat. Pour in half of the egg
mixture and tilt pan to spreadh the egg evenly over the bottom. It
should be crepe thin. cook 30 seconds, turn and cook for 15 more
seconds. Repeat with rest of mixture. Cool and slice into thin
strips. 3. Toss the sesame seeds in a dry pan over moderate heat.
stir constantly until golden brown. Set Aside. 4. combine the garlic,
salt, vinegar, sugar, soy sauce and sesame oil in a small bowl. Set
aside. 5. bring a sauce pan of salted water to a boil and put in the
noodles, snow peas, bamboo shoots and mushrooms. Cook for 30 minutes.
drain into a colander and run under cold water. dry and set aside. 6.
Mix the carrots, daikon, cucumber, bell peppers, celery and red onion
in a bowl and sprinkle on some salt.  toss well and let stand for 30
minutes. rinse the salt off and squeeze the vegetables dry by hand
with paper towels. Add sesame seeds. 7. combine all the shredded
vegetables with blanched vegetables in a large bowl. Sprinkle the
sauce over the mixture. Toss well. Transfer to a large serving
platter. Sprinkle with black pepper and garnish with egg pancake
strips, cilantro sprigs and ground peanuts. HOT EGGS AND SHREDDED
VEGETABLE SALAD (Vietnamese Cooking, Paulette Do Van)

