Title: Baked Samosas ABM
Categories: Main dish, Kooknet
Yield: 8 servings
3/4 ts Salt
1/2 c  Evaporated Milk; plus
2 tb Evaporated Milk; (if needed)    2 1/2 ts Yeast
3 c  Flour
3 tb Unsalted Butter
2 ts Sugar
MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
2 ts Fresh Ginger; finely chopped
1 ts Dried Coriander
1/2 ts Cumin
1/4 ts Pepper
1/4 ts Salt
1 md Idaho Potatoes; cut into
-1/2" chunks
1 c  Frozen Peas
2 tb Oil
2    Clove Garlic; finely chopped
MMMMM--------------------------TOPPING-------------------------------
1 tb Water
1    Egg; beaten with
Place all dough ingredients in machine and program for knead and first
rise. Press start. The dough will be quite firm but it should be moist
enough to hold together. Make the filling while the dough is rising.
Place the potato cubes in a small saucepan and cover with water.
Bring to a boil over medium high heat, lower the heat to medium and
continue cooking for 10 minutes, or until they have slightly softened
but are not cooked through. Add the peas to the boiling water for the
last minute of cooking. Drain the water from the potato cubes and
peas.

Heat the oil in a large frying pan set over medium high heat and add
the onions, garlic and ginger. Saute until the onions are
translucent. Add the potato cubes, peas, coriander, cumin, pepper and
salt and stir until well mixed. Remove from the heat and cool
slightly. Turn the finished dough out on a lightly floured surface
and divide it into 8 equal balls. Let the balls rest 10 minutes.

Preheat the oven to 350øF with the rack in the center position.
Lightly spray a large baking sheet with vegetable cooking spray. On a
lightly floured  surface, roll each ball of dough to a 7" circle,
rolling from the middle toward the edge. Distribute the filling
evenly among the circles, about 3 heaping tb for each one. Lightly
moisten the edge of each circle with water and fold over to form a
semicircle. Press the edges together firmly. Fold the pressed edge
inward toward the filling and press with you fingertips to seal. Lift
the samosas onto the prepared baking sheet and generously brush the
tops with the egg glaze. Bake the samosas for 15 minutes, or until
they are a rich golden brown. Serve hot from the oven.

Source: Pizza Etc. From Your Bread Machine Typed by Meg Antczak, Fido
Cooking Conference 07-19-95 Revised for Meal-Master Format by
Katherine Smith

