Title: Bavarian Roast Suckling Pig
Categories: Aust/german, Meats
Yield: 8 servings
1    Bottle of dark beer
Stock; or water as necc'y
1 tb Flour; in a little water
1/2 c  Sour cream [optional]
1    Suckling pig [11-14 lb]
Salt, marjoram and
Caraway seeds
1 c  Butter/bacon fat; melted or
1/2 lb Sliced bacon
Eviscerate, clean, wash and pat the pig dry. Rub inside of pig with
salt, marjoram and caraway seeds. Stuff the cavity with crumpled
aluminum foil to prevent the meat sinking. Place the front legs
forward with the feet under the head, position the rear legs and tie
with string. Rub the outside with the seasonings. Cover ears and tail
with foil to prevent burning. Prop the mouth open with a stick or raw
potato so that you can stuff it with apple later. Pierce the skin all
over with a fork so that the fat will drain off.

Lay pig on a rack in an open roasting pan; pour in enough water to
cover the bottom of the pan. To keep pig well greased as it cooks,
either brush it with butter or bacon fat every 15 min or lay strips
of bacon across its back, replacing them with more as they become
crisp. Add more water as needed and pierce the skin with a fork at
each basting.

Sear the piglet in a hot oven, then roast in a moderate oven as
follows: preheat oven to 450, put piglet in oven for 20 min and then
reduce heat to 350. Alternatively start in a 350 oven for a moister
pig with a less crispy skin. Allow 25-30 min per pound; the meat
should be white with no pink juices but not dried out.

If the meat browns too quickly cover with foil except when basting.
For the last half hour remove the foil from the ears and tail.
Towards the end baste frequently with beer for a browned crispy skin.

To serve, cut trussing from the legs and place the pig on a large
platter. Remove the wood block or potato and insert an apple or an
unpeeled lemon. You can further garnish by cutting a circle around
the neck and covering it with a wreath of leaves or [at Christmas]
holly.

Make a simple gravy by skimming the excess fat from the pan juices and
adding stock or water as required. Bring the gravy to a boil and
scrape the coagulated pan juices with a wooden spoon. Thicken with
flour and optionally add sour cream.
From: The German Cookbook by Mimi Sheraton, 1965 Posted by: Jim Weller
Submitted By JIM WELLER   On   12-20-95

