Title: BEEF CHUNKS COOKED IN COCONUT MILK
Categories: Main dish, Meats, Indonesian
Yield: 4 servings
2    Cloves garlic
12    Fresh/dried curry leaves OR
4    Dried bay leaves
8    Fresh/dried kaffir lime
Leaves OR a 3 X 1/4" strip
Of lemon peel
3 pt Coconut milk
2 lb Stewing beef, cut into 1-2"
Cubes
1 tb Salt
3" cube fresh galingal OR
12 slices dried galingal
2    Sticks fresh lemon grass OR
2 tb Dried sliced lemon grass
6    Dried red chillies
2" stick cinnamon
14    Cloves
4 oz Red bell pepper
4 oz Shallots or onions
1" cube fresh ginger
If you are using fresh galingal, peel and coursely chop it and set it
aside.  If you are using dried galingal, combine it in a cut with 4
tablespoons of water.  If you are using fresh lemon grass, cut of the
straw-like top, leaving about 6" of the bottom.  lightly crush the
very bottom and set it aside.  If you are using dried lemon grass,
put it into the water along with the galingal.
Crumble and break the dried red chillies and cinnamon into enough
water to cobver and add them to the dried galingal and dried lemon
grass if you are using them.  Also put in the cloves.  Soak the
spices for 30 mins.  Cut the red pepper coarsely inot dice,
discarding all the seeds.  Peel and coarsely chop the
shallots/onions, ginger and garlic. In an electric blender, combine
the soaked spices and their liquid, the frsh galingal (if you are
using it), the chopped red pepper, shallots, ginger and garlic.
Blend until smooth. Into a wide, preferably non-stick pan put the
paste from the blender, the fresh lemon grass (if using), the curry
leaves and kaffir lime leaves (or lemon rind).  Stir the coconut milk
well until smooth and pour that in as well.  Bring to the boil,
stirring occasionally.  Turn the heat to medium and cook the sauce
for 15 mins, stirring now and then to prevent curdling. Put in the
meat and salt and bring to the boil again. Reduce the heat to medium.
Cook, uncovered for 1 hour, stirring occasionally.  Turn the heat up
to medium-high and continue to cook, stirring now and then for a
further 30 mins or until the sauce becomes thick and brown and the
meat tender.  This is now called KALIYO DAGING, if you continue to
cook until the sauce dissappears its called RENDANG DAGING.

