Title: Broiled Beef with Mushroom Stuffing
Categories: Main dish, Meats
Yield: 4 servings
1 c  White-bread cubes(6 slices)
2/3 ts Water
1 1/2 lb Beef tenderloin roasts
Watercress sprigs
Cherry tomatoes(for garnish)
3/16 c  Butter or margarine
1/4 lb Mushrooms,finely sliced
1 pk Ham,sliced cooked(1 2/3oz)
3/16 c  Green onions,minced
1/16 ts Salt
1/16 ts Pepper
MMMMM-------------------BRANDIED TOMATO GRAVY------------------------
1 tb Brandy
1/2 ts Meat-extract paste
1/4 ts Salt
1 cn Tomatoes(8oz)
4 tb Butter or margarine
2 tb Flour,all-purpose
1 cn Beef broth(14oz)
1. Dice ham slices; prepare mushroom stuffing. In 12" skillet over
medium heat, melt butter or margarine; add mushrooms, ham, green
onions, salt, and pepper; cook until vegetables are tender, stirring
frequently. Remove skillet from heat. Add bread cubes and water; toss
gently to mix well; set aside.
2. Make a lengthwise cut, about 1 1/2 inches deep, along center of
each tenderloin roast. Into cut section of each tenderlon, spoon half
of the mushroom mixture; pack mixture firmly. With string, tie each
tenderloin securely in several places to hold cut edges of meat
together.
3. Preheat broiler if manufacturer directs. Place both tenderloins,
cut side up, on rack in broiling pan; broil 15 minutes. If necessary,
cover stuffing with foil to prevent it from browning and drying out.
Carefully turn tenderloins, cut side down, and broil 15 minutes
longer for rare or until of desired doneness.
4. Meanwhile, prepare Brandied Tomato Gravy.
5. To serve, place tenderloins on cutting board; let stand 10 minutes
for easier slicing. Remove string; slice meat. Arrange slices on warm
large platter; garnish with watercress sprigs and cherry tomatoes.
Serve gravy in gravy boat.
*** BRANDIED TOMATO GRAVY ***
1. Drain tomatoes; reserve liquid. Finely chop tomatoes; set aside.
2. In 1-quart saucepan over medium heat, melt butter or margarine.
Stir in flour; cook 1 minute.
3. Gradually stir in beef broth, tomato liquid and tomatoes, brandy,
meat-extract paste and salt; cook, stirring until gravy thickens and
boils.
NOTE: Meat-extract paste is an extract of meat, concentrated to a
paste, with seasoning added and packed in a jar. It is available in
most supermarkets.

