Title: CHICKEN BREASTS STUFFED WITH ORZO
Categories: Poultry, Pasta/rice, Main dish
Yield: 4 servings
2    Anchovy fillets; chopped
1/4 c  Tightly packed, fresh basil
1    Egg white
1 tb Dry bread crumbs
4 lg Chicken breast halves
- boned
1/3 c  Marsala
1/4 c  Balsamic or red wine vinegar
3 tb Olive oil
1/2 c  Uncooked orzo or riso pasta
3/4 c  Low-sodium chicken broth
- (or water)
Salt; as desired
1 ts Freshly ground black pepper
1 tb Olive oil
1 sm Onion
- peeled & coarsely diced
2 tb Minced garlic
COMBINE PASTA AND BROTH in a small pot, cover, place over medium-high
heat, bring to a boil and cook 5 minutes, or until barely soft.
Remove from heat and transfer contents of the pot to a work bowl. Add
salt and pepper. Meanwhile, heat the olive oil over medium heat in a
medium skillet on the stove, add the onions, garlic and anchovies and
cook, stirring occasionally, until onions are softened, about 8 to 10
minutes. Scrape the mixture into a food processor, add basil and
puree until coarsely ground. Add onion mixture to the pasta in the
mixing bowl and add egg white and bread crumbs. Mix well. Chill in
the refrigerator. Pull the tenderloins off the meat side of each
breast and set aside. Remove the skin in 1 piece and set aside. Place
breasts between layers of plastic wrap or wax paper and flatten to a
3/8-inch thickness. Gently flatten the tenderloins. Lay the breasts
down on what was their skin side and place about 1/3 cup stuffing on
each breast, leaving a 1-inch border. Gather up the edges around the
stuffing as best you can. Lay a tenderloin on the opening and wrap
each bundle with the skin. Preheat oven to 350F. Place the bundles in
a baking dish just large enough to hold them comfortably. Pour in
Marsala and vinegar, cover and place in oven for 20 minutes. Arrange
the chicken on a platter and pour the cooking juices into a saucepan.
Place saucepan over high heat and boil until reduced by half. Remove
from the heat, pour the sauce into a mixing bowl and vigorously whisk
in 3 tablespoons olive oil. Pour the sauce over the chicken and serve
immediately.

