Title: Domatosoupa
Categories: Soup/stew, Greek
Yield: 4 servings
1/2 c  Boiling water
1 ts Sugar
1    Garlic clove; minced
1/2    Orange; grated zest only
2 tb Finely chopped fresh mint
1 1/2 c  Thick yogurt or sour cream
1 tb Flour (heaped)
Salt & freshly ground pepper
1/2 c  Minced flat-leaf parsley
1 lg Mild Spanish onion
-- finely chopped
1 md Leek
-- washed & finely chopped
3 tb Fruity olive oil
1 1/4 lb Tomatoes; skinned, seeded
-- and finely chopped
3    Sun-dried tomatoes
-- snipped up & soaked in...
MMMMM-------------------------HERB BROTH------------------------------
1/4 lb Onions
4    Garlic cloves
1 sm Hot dried chili pepper; OR..
1/2 ts -Cayenne
10    Black peppercorns
1    Clove
1 sm Cinnamon stick
Salt
2 tb Chopped fresh thyme; OR...
1 tb -Dried thyme
2    Bay leaves
2 tb Fresh marjoram; OR...
1 tb -Dried oregano
1    Sprig of fresh parsley
2    Strips of lemon zest
-- (about 2-inches long)
Prepare the herb broth:  Place all ingredients in a saucepan with 5
cups of water.  Bring to a boil, then lower heat and simmer for 10 to
15 minutes.  Strain before using.

To make the soup:  In a heavy-bottomed soup pot, saute onion and leek
in olive oil until translucent.  Add chopped tomato.  In a mortar and
pestle, pound the sun-dried tomatoes with their liquid to a paste,
then add to the pot with the sugar.  Continue cooking over a
moderately high heat for 2-3 minutes.  Stir in the garlic, grated
orange zest, and mint, and cook another 2-3 minutes.  Gradually add
the herb broth, cover, then allow soup to simmer for 30-45 minutes
longer.  (Soup may be prepared ahead of time up to this point.)

In a bowl, mix together yogurt and flour until smooth.  Gradually add
a spoonful of hot soup, stirring contantly.  Add another spoonful of
soup, then slowly add yogurt mixture to soup pot, stirring all the
while. Continue cooking soup over a gentle heat, stirring, being
careful not to let mixture curdle.

Adjust seasonings, then add the fresh parsley.  Serve immediately.
Ms. Jacobs suggests fresh crusty bread, a green salads, olive and
feta cheese as suitable accomaniments.

Adapted from a recipe by Susie Jacobs (Recipes from a Greek Island)
Typed for you by Karen Mintzias

