Title: FISKEPUDDING ELLER FISKEFARSE (FISH PUDDING OR FISH BALLS
Categories: West europe, Fish/seafoo, Main dish, Appetizers
Yield: 60 fish balls
1/2 c  Light cream and
1 c  Heavy cream; combined
2 ts Salt
1 1/2 tb Cornstarch
1 tb Butter; soft
2 tb Bread crumbs; dry
1 1/2 lb Cod or haddock; skinned and
-boned
"To make an authentic Norwegian fish pudding - white, delicate and
sponging in consistency - you should begin with absolutely fresh
white fish. The pudding is served weekly in Norwegian homes, usually
hot, with melted butter or a shrimp sauce (see recipe). Cold and
sliced, it is also excellent as part of an open-faced sandwich."
With a pastry brush or paper towel, spread the bottom and side of a 1
1/2 quart loaf pan or mold with 1 tablespoon of soft butter and
sprinkle the mold with 2 tablespoons of dry bread crumbs. Make sure
the crumbs are evenly distributed and tap out any excess.
Cut the fish into small pieces and place a few pieces at a time in a
blender, along with a couple of tablespoons of the combined creams to
facilitate pur‚eing. Blend at high speed, turning the machine off
after the first few seconds to scrape down the sides of the jar with
a spatula. Continue to blend, one batch at a time, until all of the
fish is a smooth pur‚e. As you proceed, use as much of the cream as
you need to form this smooth pur‚e.
Place the pur‚ed fish in a large mixing bowl, beat in 2 teaspoons of
salt and the 1 1/2 teaspoons of cornstarch and slowly add any of the
cream that was not used in the blender, beating vigorously until the
mixture is very light and fluffy. Pour into the prepared mold and
bang sharply on the counter to settle the pudding and eliminate any
air pockets. Smooth the top with a spatula.
Preheat oven to 350øF. Butter a sheet of tin foil and seal it tightly
around the top of the mold. Place the mold in a baking pan and pour
into the pan enough boiling water to come 3/4 of the way up the sides
of the mold. Set the pan in the middle of the oven for 1 to 1 1/4
hours, regulating the heat if necessary so that the water simmers but
does not boil; if it boils, the pudding will have holes. When the top
of the pudding is firm to the touch and a toothpick or skewer in the
middle comes out dry and clean, the pudding is done.
Remove the mold from the oven and let rest for 5 minutes. Pour off all
excess liquid in mold, run a sharp knife around the inside, place a
heated platter on top and holding the mold and plate together,
quickly invert the two to remove the pudding from the mold. Clear the
place of any liquid with paper towels and serve the fiskepudding
while still hot.
TO MAKE FISH BALLS: Prepare the fish in the blender as described
above. Chill the pur‚ed fish in the mixing bowl for about 30 minutes,
then roll about 1 tablespoon of the fish in your hands at a time, to
make 1" balls. Refrigerate them, covered with wax paper, until ready
to cook. Poach these fiskefarse by dropping them into 3 or 4 inches
of barely simmering salted water for 2 or 3 minites or until firm to
the touch. Scoop them out with a slotted spoon, drain thoroughly and
serve as part of a fish soup (see recipe). Makes 60 fish balls.

