Title: FRIED EMPANADAS WITH BEEF OR CHICKEN FILLING
Categories: So. america, Meats, Poultry, Appetizers
Yield: 24 servings
(Makes 24-30)
Halve the filling ingredients or double the dough if making
both beef and chicken empanadas. Empanadas often include raisins
or sultanas which create an interesting flavour contrast with the
meat. A handful can be added to either of these recipes if you
like.
Dough:
1 kg plain flour
250 g butter, lard or margarine
1 egg
400 mL salted water
Beef filling:
150 g butter, lard or margarine
2 tablespoons oil
750 g minced beef
8 or 10 green (spring) onions
1 tablespoon paprika
salt and pepper
4 hard boiled eggs, chopped
250 g green olives
1 teaspoon ground chilli
1/4 cup tomato puree
1 teaspoon ground cumin
1 teaspoon mixed spices
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1 cup beef stock
Chicken filling:
500 g minced chicken
3-4 tablespoons oil
200 g red capsicum, finely chopped
300 g onions, finely chopped
4 tablespoons tomato puree
3 hard-boiled eggs, chopped
Oil or a mixture of oil and solid vegetable shortening for deep
frying.
To make dough:
Sift the flour, add the melted shortening and the egg. Add
the salted water bit by bit and mix to a firm dough. Knead for 10
minutes if making by hand, 4-5 minutes if using an electric mixer
with a dough hook, or 1-2 minutes if using a food processor with
a dough hook. Leave it to rest for 15 to 30 minutes.
To make the beef filling:
Heat the oil and shortening in a frying pan and saute the
green onions, finely chopped. Add the meat and stir until it is
cooked. Stir in the tomato puree and remaining ingredients, cook
for a few minutes more. Leave until completely cold before assem-
bling empanadas.
To make the chicken filling:
Heat the oil and fry the onions, then add the capsicum and
dry until soft. Add the minced chicken and stir until it has all
changed colour. Season to taste, add the tomato puree, mix well
and simmer for a further 3 minutes. Leave until completely cold
before assembling empanadas.
Assembly and cooking:
Roll out the dough about 3 mm thick and, using a saucer or
something similar as a guide, cut into 24-30 circles about 14 cms
in diameter. Divide whichever filling mixture you are using
between the circles, putting it on one side of the circle only.
Moisten the outer rim of the dough with water and fold over into
a semi-circle. Curve the ends of the folded side together a
little to form a crescent, then secure the joined edges by fold-
ing them over each other in small sections to form a "rope"
effect (if this sounds too confusing, just press together and
decorate with a fork in the usual way). Heat about 6-8 cm deep
frying oil to very hot and deep fry the empanadas one or two at a
time just until golden. Remove from the oil immediately and drain
well on kitchen paper. Serve very hot
From an article by Meryl Constance in The Sydney Morning
Herald, 7/13/93. Courtesy Mark Herron.

TO ALL  Submitted By JOANN ELDRIDGE  SUBJ EMPANADA RECIPE WANTED.
On 11-26-95

