Title: German Schnitzels
Categories: Aust/german, Meats
Yield: 1 text file  Along with sauerbraten and sausages, schnitzels are Germany's most
famous food specialty. A schnitzel is literally a slice or cutlet
from a veal leg. Flattened fried chicken breasts and pork cutlets,
although tasty, are not true schnitzel. Known in Italy as Scallopini
and in France as Escalope, it is cut with the long grain or more
exactly at a slight diagonal to it so that it will not fall apart
when pounded. It is this pounding with a wooden mallet that gives
schnitzel its tenderness and delicacy. After being cut the slice of
veal is placed between several thicknesses of waxed paper and then
pounded to about 1/16" to 1/8" thickness.

General rules for preparing schnitzels: -1- The breaded cutlets
should be rested at room temp for 15-30 min before frying. -2- The
fat should be hot enough so that the breading does not fall off. -3-
A schnitzel should be golden brown on both sides and thoroughly
cooked in 8-12 min. It should only be turned once. Otherwise it is
too thick. -4- Keep finished schnitzels in a low oven [250-275] while
the others are frying. never cover them or they will steam and the
breading will get soggy. -5- Although schnitzels are often fried in
butter, shortenings or lard can be used. Lard gives the crispiest,
driest crust.

Wienerschnitzel: Marinate 6 pounded cutlets in lemon juice for 30 min;
sprinkle with salt. Place a cup of flour on a plate or a piece of
waxed paper; beat 2 eggs in 2 tbsp cold water and optionally beat in
2 tbsp salad oil for a more secure and crispier breading. Have a cup
of fine dry breadcrumbs ready in a plate or on a piece of waxed
paper. Dip the cutlets lightly into flour, then the egg mix. Let the
excess egg drip off, then dredge in the crumbs. Let stand 15-30 min.
Heat enough fat in a large skillet for the cutlets to swim. do not
crowd them. Put schnitzels in the pan only when the fat is very hot.
fry on the first side until golden brown. Turn with a spatula; do not
pierce with a fork. Fry another 4-6 min until golden brown. Hold in a
250-275 oven until the rest are done.

Schnitzel a la Holstein: Garnish wienerschnitzel with a fried egg, two
anchovy fillets and a sprinkling of well drained capers. [Or use a
barely set poached egg and finish under the broiler.- JW]

Cheese schnitzel: Use 1/2 cup grated Parmesan cheese and 1/2 cup
crumbs instead of 1 cup crumbs. Garnish the finished schnitzels with
paprika and a paper thin slice of lemon.

Naturschnitzel: Take pounded cutlets 1/4" thick, salt and dredge one
side only with flour. Brown unfloured side first, then the floured
side. Make a sauce as follows: stir 2 tbsp butter into the pan
juices; when bubbling add 1/2 cup beef or veal stock- simmer and
scrape pan residues into the sauce with a wooden spoon. Flavor with
salt, pepper and lemon juice. Pour the reduced sauce over the
schnitzels.

Almond schnitzel: Dip cutlets into sour cream, then flour, then egg
wash, then grated blanched almonds instead of breadcrumbs.

Hunter's schnitzel: Cut schnitzels in half after pounding, sprinkle
with salt and pepper and sautee in bacon fat. Remove meat and saute
chopped carrot, onion and parsley [and optionally celery and
mushrooms as well] until soft. Return veal to the pan, add a tbsp
butter and when it bubbles stir in 2 tbsp flour. Stir and cook 5 min.
Pour 1 cup white wine into the pan, cover and simmer 15 min or until
veal is tender. Season sauce to taste; place schnitzels on serving
platter and top with vegetables and sauce.

Cream schnitzel: Cut salted and peppered pounded cutlets into 2"x3"
pieces. Brown both sides in butter and remove from pan. pour 1/2 cup
water into pan, scraping pan residues into it with a wooden spoon.
Blend 1 tbsp flour into 1/2 cup sour cream and stir that into the
water. Return schnitzels to the sauce, cover and simmer 5-10 min
until meat is tender. Season sauce with beef extract and lemon juice.

Swabian schnitzel: Make cream schnitzel with twice the sauce and
serve over a mound of hot noodles or Spatzle.

Paprikaschnitzel: Follow recipe for cream schnitzel but sprinkle
cutlets with paprika before browning and stir 1-2 tsp paprika into
the sour cream sauce. Mince a small onion and saute it in a little
butter until soft and add to the fried veal before cooking it again
in the sour cream sauce.

From: The German Cookbook by Mimi Sheraton, 1965 Posted by: Jim Weller
Submitted By JIM WELLER   On   12-19-95

