Title: HFS2- English Roast Chicken with Herbed Orange Stuffing
Categories: Main dish, Poultry, British isl, Bon appetit
Yield: 6 servings
MMMMM-------------------HERBED ORANGE STUFFING------------------------
1 ts Dried marjoram; crumbled
1 ts Salt
Freshly ground pepper
Freshly grated nutmeg
5 lb To 6-lb roasting chicken
3/4 c  (1-1/2 sticks) unsalted
-butter; room temperature
1 tb Fresh parsley; minced
1 tb Honey
1 ea Lemon; grated peel of
1 ea Orange; grated peel of
Fresh watercress sprigs;
-garnish
1 1/2 lb Ground veal
2 tb (1/4 stick) unsalted butter
1 lg Onion; minced
2 ea Carrots; finely diced
4 c  Fresh white breadcrumbs
3/4 c  Whipping cream (or slightly
-more)
1/2 c  Fresh herbs (such as
-tarragon, parsley, & thyme)
-; minced
1/2 c  Dried currants; soaked in
1/3 c  Fresh orange juice; for 30
-minutes
1/2 c  Walnuts; chopped
For Stuffing:
Saute veal in nonstick large skillet over medium-high heat until
just beginning to lose pink color, about 3 minutes.  Transfer to
large bowl. Melt 2 tablespoons butter in same skillet over
medium-high heat. Add onion and carrots and saute until just
beginning to color. Blend into veal. Add breadcrumbs, 3/4 cup cream,
minced herbs, undrained currants, walnuts, marjoram, salt, pepper and
nutmeg and toss gently. Mixture should just hold together; add small
amount of cream if necessary.
Preheat oven to 375F.  Season main cavity of chicken with salt.
Stuff main and neck cavities loosely.  Truss chicken, then secure
wings and legs with string.  Cream together butter, parsley, honel,
and citrus peels. Rub most of flavored butter over entire surface of
chicken. Set chicken on rack in roasting pan.  Tent with greased
parchment paper. Roast 1 hour.
Baste chicken wih pan juices and brush with remaining flavored
butter. Continue roasting until skin is rich golden brown and leg
moves easy, basting frequently, about 1 hour.
Let stand 15 minutes on heated platter.  Garnish platter with
watercress.  Nap chicken with pan juices and serve.

"Hearty Farmhouse Suppers" "Bon Appetit"  February, 1983 Typos by Jeff
Pruett
Submitted By JEFF PRUETT   On   11-27-95

