Title: Infusing Oils with Flavor
Categories: Information, Herbs/spice
Yield: 1 info
None
Hot Method for Fresh Ingredients

Fresh ingredients, such as herbs and garlic, must be heated with the
oil for several minutes in order to pasteurize them, which prevents
spoilage. The heat also releases the flavor of fresh ingredients into
the oil.

Start by putting the flavoring and the oil in a deep, non-aluminum
pot. Heat the pot over low heat and gradually bring the temperature
of the mixture to 220 F, monitoring it with a thermometer. Keep the
temperature between 220 F and 250 F for 20 min ÄÄ too low a
temperature and you might not kill off all the bacteria; too high,
and you can scorch the ingredient and ruin the taste of the oil.
Also, every time you heat an oil, you shorten its shelf life. You
only want as much heat as necessary to get the flavor in and the
bacteria out. During cooking, stir a few times to keep the seasoning,
which probably will be sizzling a bit, from sticking to the pan.

After 20 min, take the pan from the heat and let it cool to room
temperature ÄÄ don't try to pour hot oil. Line a strainer with two
layers of cheesecloth and set it over a clean, dry bottle or jar.
Strain the oil into the bottle, gently pressing on the solids to get
as much oil as you can with pushing the solids through. If your
bottle has a very narrow neck, strain into a jar and then pour from
the jar into your bottle Seal the container for storage, or use the
oil right away.

Cold Method for Dry Ingredients

Stir the spices with room-temperature oil in a clean, dry container.
Cover the container and leave it to infuse at room temperature for
three days. every day you need to stir or shake the oil again so that
the spices stay distributed though the oil for a fuller transfer of
flavors. On the third day, taste the oil; if it seems weak, leave it
for another day or two. When the flavor is to your liking, let the
spices settle completely to the bottom, strain through cheesecloth,
and seal as for the hot method. The oil is ready to use.

Fine Cooking
Dec 95-Jan 96
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   12-20-95

