Title: JUDICIAL MISCONDUCT BEEF, PORK, SAUSAGE CHILI
Categories: Main dish, Chili
Yield: 20 servings
-the Greek variety)
4    Red peppers, dried (or 2
-tblsp crushed)
2 ts Black pepper, freshly
-ground
1 ts MSG (Accent)
2 ts Salt
1 ts Coriander (crushed or
-ground)
2 tb Maggi Seasoning
1/4 c  Tiger Sauce
16 oz Beef broth
2 c  Tomato sauce (15 oz. Each)
1 c  Tomato paste (12 oz)
1 c  Italian plum tomatoes,
-whole, diced
2 tb Masa Harina (or flour)
1 lb Black beans (optional),
-soaked overnight
1    Beer from a good
-microbrewery like Ballard
-Bitters
-Walla Walla sweets, diced,
-for garnish
-Monterey Jack cheese,
-shredded, for garnish
3 lb Ground beef, the leanest,
-chili grind
2 lb Round steak, extra lean (or
-flank steak), cubed
1 lb Pork shoulder, extra lean,
-chili grind or cubed
1 lb Linguica or andouille
-sausage, chopped fine
3    Purple onions, large,
-chopped small
3    Walla Walla Sweet Onions, or
-other sweet onion
6    Garlic cloves, finely
-minced
2 c  Green Chiles, chopped
-(Ortega or other good
-brand)
2    Green peppers, chopped
-small
2    Red peppers, chopped small
2    Celery ribs, minced
1/4 c  Parsley, minced
8 tb Chili powder (GebhardtUs or
-other good brand)
2 tb Cumin, ground
2 tb Spanish sweet paprika
2 tb Oregano, dried (preferably
Wash beans carefully and soak in enough salted water overnight to
cover them by 2 inches of water.  Bring to a boil and simmer the next
day until tender (usually 2-3 hours).

In the meantime, heat 2 tblsp of oil in a large, heavy skillet.  Add
garlic, onions, bell peppers, and celery.  Cook until the onions are
clear.  Remove and reserve.

Mix ground meats.  Add 1 T.  Oil to skillet and saute meat, cooking on
high heat until thoroughly browned.  Drain fat.  Remove ground meat
and reserve.  Brown cubed meat, drain, and reserve.  Place reserved
vegetables and meats in chili pot along with linguica (or Andouille).
Add all remaining vegetables, spices and liquids (except the beer,
Masa Harina, or beans), a little at a time, stirring and mixing
thoroughly between additions.  Carefully bring temperature up to a
simmer.

Cook covered on very low heat approximately 5 hours.  Adjust the
consistency after 3 hours.  If too thin, uncover and reduce by turning
up heat (carefully) slightly.  If it is still not the desired
consistency, add masa harina (or flour) to thicken, beer to thin, as
needed.  Taste and adjust for spices carefully (the flavor will
develop as the chili cooks).  It should be hot enough to be
memorable, but not so hot it takes the skin off the roof of your
mouth.  ItUs better to sneak up on hot.  You canUt take it out.  If
it cries out to be hotter, add just enough Louisiana hot sauce.

Finally, and only if you absolutely must, add the beans.  A chili
purist would jettison them without a second thought.  If you canUt
bring yourself to do it, but want to serve the chili beanless as God
intended, serve the beans on the side and let people indulge their
own leguminous perversions.

Serve topped with chopped Walla Walla sweets, shredded Monterey Jack
cheese, and a pinch of parsley.

