Title: KAZAKH LAMB DUMPLINGS
Categories: Meats, Main dish, Chinese
Yield: 6 servings
1 ea Garlic clove minced
3 tb Cold boiled rice
- Dough -
1 ts Salt
3 ea Eggs
1 c  Cold water
4 c  Flour all-purpose
3/4 lb Lamb finely ground
2 tb Salt
1 ea Egg
1 qt Peanut oil
3 tb Butter
1/4 c  Parsley chopped fine
2 tb Cilantro chopped fine
DOUGH: Combine flour & salt in a large mixing bowl. Make a deep well
in the center. Drop in the eggs & water. With your hands mix the
flour into the liquid until thoroughly mixed. Dough should be able to
be gathered into a compact ball. Transfer dough-ball to a lightly
floured surface & pressed flat. Knead the dough by folding from
end-to-end then flattening it with the heel of your hand. Be sure to
sprinkle the dough with extra flour as needed. Knead for approx. 15
minutes or until dough becomes smooth and very elastic in texture.
Shape into a ball, wrap loosely in either waxed paper or place in a
bowl covered with a towel. Alow to stand at room temperature for a
minimum of 1 hour but no more than 4 hours. FILLING: Melt the butter
in a large skillet then add 1 T of the peanut oil and mix well over
High heat. Add the ground lamb & the garlic. Brown well being sure to
break up any clumps of meat that may form. Transfer lamb to a mixing
bowl. Add the parsley, cilantro, salt, & rice. Mix very thoroughly
and allow to cool to room temperature. DUMPLINGS: Roll dough on a
floured surface until forms a sheet approx. 1/8" thick. Lift the
dough at this point, on the backs of your hands and stretch it until
is paper- thin. Using either a glass or a cookie cutter, cut the
dough into 3" circles. This will result in 72 - 76 circles. In the
center of each circle, place 1 teaspoon of the lamb filling. Fold the
circles in half enclosing the filling. Take a fork and press the
edges of each dumpling to seal them. Lightly beat the egg. Brush the
edges of the seal dumpling with beatten egg. Heat the peanut oil in
deep-fat fryer until it is 375 degrees F. Deep fry the dumplings for
2 - 3 minutes each or until they are evenly browned. Drain well.
Serve over rice or with soup. *NOTE*
These may be made up & frozen. they keep well ij the freezer a
month or better. You may also steam these tasty little dumplings and
serve them with rice this way as well. I have tried them with beef
filling, chicken filling, and was told by soem Kazakh friends that
they may also be made with shrimp. ORIGIN: Tamara Kostirko, Almaty,
Kazakhstan

