Title: KHAO-TUNG HNA-TUNG (CRUSTY RICE WITH SHRIMP DIP).
Categories: Appetizers, Fish/seafoo, Thai
Yield: 1 servings
6 c  Water.
2 c  Long Grain Rice.
MMMMM----------------------------DIP---------------------------------
1/2 c  Peanuts, Crushed Fine.
3 tb Fish Sauce.
1/4 c  Sugar.
Cilantro Leaves, Chopped.
Fresh Red Chili Peppers.
1 c  Raw Shrimp (Ground/Chopped).
3 c  Coconut Milk. *
1/2 c  Shallots or Onions, Chopped.
2 tb Cilantro Roots & Stem, Mash.
2 tb Garlic, Chopped.
2 tb Tomato Paste.
* 3 cups of coconut milk can be made fresh, if desired, by mixing 1
pound of grated, fresh coconut meat with 2-1/2 cups of hot (not
boiling) water. Mix well, and work the mixture bu hands.  Strain and
squeeze out resulting liquid and discard the meat.
TO MAKE BASIC "CRUSTY RICE":
Wash rice, if needed, and put into a pot or sauce pan. Add the 6 cups
of water and put on medium heat till the rice is thoroughly cooked
and the water had almost totally evaporated.  Take the pot of rice
off the heat and put aside to cool (rice should resemble a "soggy
mess"). Lightly coat a shallow tray or cookie sheet with oil, add
some of the cooked rice and spread into a thin layer.  You may need
several trays, depending on their size.  Put the tray(s) out to dry
in the sun (or into a warm oven). When the rice starts to dry (but
not yet fully dry), use a knife to cut the sheet of rice into 2"-3"
squares. Turn the pieces over and continue to dry thoroughly.
The squares of crusty rice can now be either deep fried till lightly
browned, or toasted.  If fried, drain well.  They can be stored for
several days in airtight jar.
SHRIMP DIP:
Place the coconut milk into a sauce pan and add the crushed cilantro
roots/stems, chopped garlic, ground (chopped) raw shrimp meat.  Stir
well and put on medium heat.  Stir till the coconut milk starts to
boil, and continue to cook till the shrimp meat is cooked.  Add
tomato paste and chopped shallot (onion).  Continue cooking for a few
more minutes till the shallot is cooked.  Add fish sauce, sugar, and
crushed peanuts. Bring to a second boil and take off the heat.
Serve warm in a bowl, with either toasted or fried crusty rice
squares. Garnished the dip with chopped cilantro leaves and slices of
medium hot red chili peppers.

