Title: LAMB WITH ONIONS
Categories: Meats
Yield: 6 servings
2 1/2 lb Lamb shoulder;boneless
-trimmed of fat,
-cut in 1 inch pieces
1 tb Coriander, ground
2 ts Cumin, ground
6 tb Yogurt, plain;beaten lightly
1/2 ts Cayenne pepper
1 ts -Salt
1/2 ts Garam marsala
4    Onions;large
7    Garlic cloves;peeled
1    Ginger; piece, 1 inch long
-coarsely chopped
1 1/2 c  -Water
2/3 c  Vegetable oil
1    Cinnamon stick;1 inch
10    Cardamom pods
10    Cloves, whole
"It's preferable to use freshly ground cumin and coriander seeds
yourself, but in a pinch, store bought ground cumin and coriander
will do."
Halve three onions lengthwise, then cut crosswise into very thin
half rings. Chop fourth onion finely. Keep two types of onions
separately.
Put garlic and ginger into container of blender or food processor;
add 3 Tbsp of the water and process till smooth.
Heat oil in large, wide saucepan over medium-high heat. When hot,
add sliced onions. Stir gently and fry 20 to 25 minutes or until
onions are reddish-brown. If necessary, reduce heat near the end of
cooking time. Remove onions with slotted spoon; spread on cookie
sheet lined with paper towel.
Add cinnamon, cardamom and cloves to hot oil in pan. Stir 5 seconds
over medium-high heat. Add 10 cubes meat or as many as pan will hold
in single layer. (Do not crowd pan.) Brown meat on one side; turn and
brown meat on other side. Remove with slotted spoon; set aside.
Repeat with remaining meat.
Add chopped onion to oil. Stir and fry on medium heat until brown
around edges.
Add garlic-ginger paste. Stir and fry until all water in it seems to
boil away, about 2 minutes. Reduce heat. Add coriander and cumin; fry
30 seconds.
Add 1 Tbsp yogurt; stir and fry, incorporating into sauce. Add
another tablespoon yogurt, incorporating it into sauce. Repeat with
remaining yogurt.
Add meat and accumulated juices in bowl, remaining water, cayenne
and salt. Stir to mix. Bring to simmer. Cover, reduce heat to low and
cook 1 hour or until lamb is tender.
Add fried onions and garam marsala. Stir to mix; cook uncovered 2
to 3 minutes, stirring gently.
Remove from heat and let pan sit a couple of minutes. Fat will rise
to the top, remove with spoon.
SERVES: 6

