Title: Light & Lush Lemon Cake
Categories: Desserts, Cake/cookie, Fruit
Yield: 12 servings
MMMMM----------------------------CAKE---------------------------------
-fat or nonfat)
1/4 lb (1 stick) butter or
-margarine
3/4 c  Cake flour
6    Large eggs, separated
1 pn Salt
1 tb Melted butter for coating
-pan
Powdered sugar
2    To 3 lemons
1/2 c  Plus 3/4 C sugar, divided
3/4 c  Whole milk (do not use low
MMMMM-----------------LEMON CREAM FRAICHE SAUCE----------------------
-to taste
Garnish, opt., Lemon slices
Mint leaves
Fresh daisies
1 c  Regular or light sour cream
2 tb Whipping cream
1/2 c  Sugar
3 tb To 4 T fresh lemon juice,
Brush a 12 cup bundt pan with melted butter.  Sprinkle with powdered
sugar and shake out the excess; set aside.  Fill a 3 inch deep baking
pan that is large enought to hold the bundt pan with 1 to 2 inches of
water.  Place in center of oven and preheat to 325F.

To make cake:  Using a sharp vegetable peeler, remove peel from one
large or two small lemons.  Cut off all white pith from inside peel.
Squeeze lemons to make 1/3 cup juice; set aside.  Place peel in a
food processor fitted with the metal blade.  Add 1/2 cup sugar and
process until peel is minced as fine as the sugar, about 1 minute.
Transfer to an 8-cup (2 quart)
microwave-safe measure.  Add milk and butter and microwave on HIGH
(100%) for 2 to 3 minutes, or until butter is melted.  Return to food
processor with metal blade, add flour and process 20 seconds to
combine.  With machine running, add egg yolks through the feed tube
and process until blended, about 20 seconds.  Pour in lemon juice and
process until incorporated.

In a large mixing bowl with electric mixer, beat egg whites and salt
until soft peaks begin for form.  Mix in 3/4 cup sugar, 2 tablespoons
at a time, beating continuously until stiff, but not dry, peaks form.
Partially fold a third of the yolk mixture into whites; then fold in
the remainder until incorporated.  Spoon into prepared pan, spreading
top evenly.

To bake:  Place pan in hot water in 325F oven.  Bake for 50 to 55
minutes or until top is golden and cracked.  Transfer to a rack and
cool 15 minutes; cake will fall to the top of the pan.  Go around the
sides with a small knife and invert oon a platter (make sure it is
microvae-safe if you plan to reheat cake) or sheet of heavy duty foil
if you plan to freeze it. (The cake may be refrigerated up to 2 days
or frozen.  Defrost at room temperature.)

To make sauce:  While cake bakes, if desired, make the sauce by
stirring sour cream, whipping cream, sugar and lemon juice together
in a medium bowl.  Refrigerate until serving. (Sauce may be
refrigerated up to 2 days. Stir well before using.)  Mkaes 1 1/2 cups.

To serve:  To serve warm, reheat the cake in the mocrowave covered
with plastic wrap for 40 to 60 seconds or until warm.  Or serve at
room temperature or chilled.  If serving sauce, spoon a small amount
onto each plate, swirling to coat the bottom.  Top with a slice of
cake and garnish with lemon slices, mint sprigs and daisies, if
desired.

Recipe from The Detroit News, MM formatted and entered by Didi Pahl

