Title: MOUSSAKA (LAMB AND EGGPLANT CASSEROLE)
Categories: Main dish, Meats, Appetizers, Microwave
Yield: 6 servings
1    Clove garlic, peeled
-and crushed
2/3 c  Beef stock or broth
1 1/2 ts Cornstarch
3 tb Tomato paste,
-(save remainder for sauce)
3    Eggs, slightly beaten
Tomato sauce for Moussaka
-(recipe)
4    7 to 8" eggplants, washed
1 tb Salt
2 tb Olive oil
2 lb Lean ground lamb
Vegetable oil
2/3 c  Finely chopped onion
8 oz Sliced mushrooms, drained
1 ts Salt
1 ts Dried rosemary leaves
1/2 ts Dried thyme leaves
1. Remove green caps from eggplants and slice eggplants in half
lengthwise. Make deep slashes in eggplant pulp, but do not cut
through skins. Sprinkle eggplant halves with the 1 tablespoon salt
and allow to stand at room temperature 1/2 hour. 2. Squeeze moisture
out of eggplant halves and brush cut sur- faces with the 2
tablespoons of olive oil. Heat 4 eggplant halves at a time in
Microwave Oven 7 minutes or until pulp is tender. Repeat with
remaining eggplant halves. 3. Scoop pulp out of eggplant, being
careful not to rip skins. Set skins aside. Chop eggplant pulp
coarsely. Place pulp in a medium-sized, heat-resistant, non-metallic
bowl and heat, un- covered, in Microwave Oven 4 minutes or until
tender. Stir occasionally. 4. In a large heat-resistant, non-metallic
bowl, crumble the lamb. Heat, uncovered, in Microwave Oven 5 minutes
stirring frequently to break up pieces until meat is no longer pink.
5. Liberally oil a deep, 2-quart, heat-resistant, non-metallic
cas-serole. Line casserole with the reserved eggplant skins. Arrange
skins with the purple sides toward the outside and wide ends of
eggplant skins at the top of the casserole. 6. Drain the lamb juices
and discard. Add chopped eggplant, onion, mushrooms, the 1 teaspoon
salt, thyme, rosemary and garlic to the cooked lamb. Stir to combine
well. Heat, uncovered, in Microwave Oven 5 minutes or until onion is
tender. 7. In a small heat-resistant, non-metallic bowl combine beef
stock and cornstarch until smooth. Heat, uncovered, in Microwave Oven
1 minute or until thickened and clear; stir occasionally. 8. Add
thickened beef stock with remaining ingredients, except tomato sauce,
to lamb mixture. Pour lamb-eggplant mixture into eggplant-skin-lined
casserole. 9. Fold eggplant skins over filling. Heat, covered with a
plate, 9 minutes or until a knife inserted in the center of the
mixture comes out clean. 10. Invert onto platter for serving. Serve
with tomato sauce.

