Title: PAELLA A LA BASQUAISE
Categories: Casseroles
Yield: 6 servings
1    Red pepper, finely sliced
4 lg Ripe tomatoes, peeled,
-seeded and chopped
1/4 lb Proscuitto
2 sm Hot dry chili peppers
1/2 ts Saffron
1 ts Oregano
1 ts Basil
3 c  Hot chicken stock, up to
4 c  Stock
1/2 lb Finely sliced Chorizo
1 c  Shelled peas (blanched in
-boiling water for 5 mins)
2 c  Raw long-grain rice
1 lb Fresh mussels
18 sm Hard-shell clams,
-thoroughly rinsed &
-scrubbed
2 lb Fresh halibut cut into
-bite-size cubes
Salt
Freshly ground white pepper
1/2 c  Olive oil
1 lb Fresh shrimp, peeled, with
-tails left on
1 lg Onion, finely minced
1 ts Finely minced garlic
MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
2    Lemons, quartered
Pimiento strips
Preheat over to 350 degrees.  Wash the rice thoroughly under cold
running water and drain.  Reserve.  Wash both the mussels and clams
thoroughly until all sand has been removed.  Do not soak them in cold
water. Dry the fish pieces thoroughly with paper towels and season
with salt and pepper. In a large skillet, heat 1/4 c olive oil.  When
it is very hot add the fish cubes and brown them on all sides.
Remove them to a side dish and reserve. To the fat remaining in the
skillet add the shrimp and cook them over medium heat until they turn
bright pink. Season with salt and white pepper. Remove the cooked
shrimp to a side dish and reserve. Add 2 T olive oil to the skillet.
Add the onion, garlic and red pepper slices and cook until the onions
are very soft and lightly browned. Be sure not to burn the mixture.
Add the tomatoes and proscuitto, chilies and saffron. Season the
mixture with salt and pepper, oregano and basil. Bring to a boil and
cook, stirring constantly, scraping the bottom of the pan well, until
most of the tomato juice has evaporated.  Add the rice and 3 1/2 cups
of chicken stock. Bring the mixture to a boil again and cook over
medium heat until 1/2 of the broth is absorbed.  Pour half the rice
mixture into an earthenware casserole.  Make a layer of fish cubes
and Chorizo and top with the remaining rice.  Cover the casserole and
bake the rice for 25 minutes. Uncover the casserole and fold the
shrimp and peas lightly into the rice. Cover again and continue
baking for 10 to 15 minutes or until the rice is tender and all the
broth has been absorbed.  If the rice seems dry, yet still too crisp,
add the remaining chicken stock. Uncover the casserole and bury the
clams and mussels in the rice.  Cover the casserole again and cook
for another 10 to 15 minutes or until the shells of both mussels and
clams have opened.  Discard any mussels or clams that have not
opened. Garnish the paella with pimiento strips and lemon quarters.
Serve directly from the casserole.

