Title: Pecan Coffee Cake ABM
Categories: Breads, Desserts, Kooknet
Yield: 10 servings
1/2 c  Sugar
3 1/4 c  Flour
1/2 ts Salt
1 tb Yeast
1 1/2    Unsalted Butter; at room
-temperature
3    Eggs
3    Egg Yolks
2 ts Vanilla Extract
MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
3 tb Molasses
1/4 c  Heavy Cream
2 c  Pecan Halves; toasted
6 tb Unsalted butter; cut into 1"
-pieces
1 1/2 c  Dark Brown Sugar
1/3 c  Corn Syrup
Place all dough ingredients in the machine.  Program for knead and
first rise and press start. At the end of the final cycle, transfer
the dough to a well-oiled bowl, cover it with plastic and refrigerate
for 2 hours. Generously butter a 12 cup bundt pan. Place the butter,
sugar, corn syrup and molasses in a 2 quart saucepan set over medium
heat. Allow the mixture to come to a boil. Cook 2 minutes at full
boil. Remove from the heat and add the cream. Stir in combine and
then immediately stir in the pecans. Continue to mix until all the
pecans are covered.

Pour a third of the filling into the prepared pan and set aside the
rest to cool while you prepare the dough. On a lightly floured work
surface, roll the dough into a 20 x 9 inch rectangle. Place the
prepared pan nearby. Pour the rest of the filling down the length of
the dough and use a metal spatula to quickly spread it to within 2"
of the edges. Flip one long side of the dough over the middle, then
the other, to form a long roll. Quickly lift the roll and place it in
the pan so that the ends overlap slightly.

Cover the pan with lightly oiled plastic wrap and allow the dough to
rise in warm place until doubled in bulk. Preheat the oven to 375øF.
with the rack in the center position. Bake for 20 minutes and then
reduce the heat to 350øF. and bake it another 20 to 25 minutes. If
the top is getting too brown, cover it loosely with foil. Put a cake
rack over a large plate. Remove cake from oven and turn over onto the
rack. Scoop up any filling that drips off and place it back on cake.
Once filling has cooled, remove the cake to a serving plate.

Source: Desserts from Your Bread Machine Typed by Meg Antczak, Fido
Cooking Conference 07-19-95 Revised for Meal-Master Format by
Katherine Smith

