Title: Pine Nut and Pistachio Relish
Categories: Condiments, Relishes
Yield: 1 quart
6    Stalks celery, trimmed
Finely chopped
1 c  Green olives
Pits removed
Flesh finely chopped
1 c  Toasted pine nuts
1 c  Shelled unsalted
Natural pistachio nuts
Outer skins removed
1/4 c  Red wine vinegar
1/4 c  Sugar
Freshly ground
Black pepper to taste
1 lg Eggplant, peeled
Finely chopped
1/4 c  Plus 1 tsp salt
1 c  Olive oil
1 md Yellow onion(s), peeled
Finely chopped
3 lg Garlic clove(s)
Peeled and minced
8 lg Tomatoes, peeled
Seeded and diced
1 tb Basil, minced
1 tb Oregano, minced
1/2 tb Thyme, minced
Place the chopped eggplant in a colander and sprinkle with  1/4 cup
of the salt. set aside to "sweat" for 20-30 min.

Heat  1/2 cup of the olive oil in a large, heavy saucepan over
medium-high heat. Add the onion and garlic and saute until
translucent. Add the tomatoes, basil, oregano, and thyme, and saute
for 5-8 min. Remove from the heat.

Bring 4 cups water to a boil in a small pot. Add the chopped celery
and blanch for 1 min. Remove the celery with a slotted spoon and add
to the tomato mixture. Repeat the blanching process with the olives.

thoroughly rinse the salt from the eggplant under cold running water
and drain on paper towels.

Heat the remaining olive oil in a heavy saucepan over medium-high
heat. add the eggplant and saute for 3 min, then fold in the pine
nuts and pistachios. Remove the pan from the heat and let cool
slightly. Combine the eggplant and tomato mixtures.

In a small saucepan, heat the vinegar and sugar over low heat,
stirring to dissolve the sugar, about 4 min. Let the mixture cool,
then add to the eggplant-tomato relish. Adjust seasonings to taste.

Serve warm or at room temperature. Can be refrigerated for several
days.

Note: Serve with a wedge of hard cheese and cracker. It is also
delicious on top of pasta or as an accompaniment to grilled chicken.

Grains, Rice, and Beans
by Kevin Graham
ISBN 1-885183-08-9
pg 160
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   11-25-95

