Title: SPINACH FETTUCINE WITH GINGER CHICKEN
Categories: Blank
Yield: 4 servings
MMMMM-----------------FOR THE MARINADE/DRESSING----------------------
-skinless
8 oz Dried spinach fettucine
1/2 c  Chicken stock, fat skim off
1 md Yellow squash, trimmed
-and cut into matchsticks
1 md Red bell pepper, trimmed &
-cut into strips
1 lg Leek, white part only, trim
-cut into 1" half rounds
2 c  Broccoli florets -1 bundle
1 c  Chopped mushrooms
1/4 c  Snipped fresh chives
1/3 c  Chopped shallot (2 large)
1    Garlic clove, peeled&chopped
1/8 ts Crushed red pepper flakes
1 ts Dried thyme
2 ts Freshly squeezed lime juice
1 tb Dijon-style mustard
2 tb Reduced-sodium soy sauce
2 tb Rice wine vinegar
1/4 c  Dry white wine
2 ts Honey
3 tb Grated fresh ginger
..........................
8 oz Chicken breast, boneless
Preheat oven to 350 degrees.
Put all the marinade/dressing ingredients (these are the ones that
being with the chopped shallot and end with the grated fresh ginger)
in a blender and mix thoroughly at low speed.
Place the chicken in a shallow baking dish.  Pour half of the mixture
from the blender over the poultry, reserving the remainder. Cover and
refrigerate the chicken for 20 minutes.
While the chicken is marinating, bring a large pot of water to boil
over high heat.  Add the fettucini and cook for 8 to 12 minutes, to
desired doneness.
In the meantime, remove the chicken from the refrigerator. Uncover the
baking dish and transfer it to the oven. Bake for 15 minutes, until
the meat is no longer pink and the juices run clear.
When the pasta is cooked, remove the pot from the heat. Drain the
fettucini and return it to the pot. Stir in the chicken stock and
keep the mixture warm over the lowest heat setting.
Pour the cooking juices from the chicken into a saute' pan. Add the
squash, bell pepper, leek, broccoli and mushrooms. Saute for about 3
minutes, just until the vegetables begin to wilt.
Transfer the pasta to a warm serving bowl, along with the vegetables.
Shred the chicken on top.  Add the reserved dressing and toss.
Garnish with the snipped chives.

