Title: Steamed Apple-Date Pudding
Categories: Desserts
Yield: 12 servings
1/2 ts Cinnamon,ground
1/4 ts Cloves,ground
1    Apple,peeled,large
3/4 c  Walnuts
Red candied cherries
Green candies cherries
1 pk Dates,pitted(8oz)
1/2 c  Apple cider
3/4 c  Sugar
1/2 c  Butter or margarine,softened
4    Eggs
2 c  Flour,all-purpose
2 ts Baking powder
MMMMM-----------------------CUSTARD SAUCE----------------------------
2 c  Milk
1 ts Vanilla extract
4    Egg yolks
1/3 c  Sugar
1/8 ts Salt
1. Heavily grease deep 2 1/2-quart heat-safe bowl. Cut foil 1 inch
large than top of bowl to use as cover. Grease 1 side of foil well;
set aside.
2. In blender at medium speed or in food processor with knife blade
attached, blend dates and apple juice until smooth; set aside.
4. In large bowl, with mixer at low speed, beat sugar and butter or
margarine just until blended. Increase speed to high; beat until
light and fluffy. Add eggs, next 5 ingredients, and date mixture;
beat at low speed until blended. Increase speed to medium; beat 1
minute, occasionally scraping bowl with rubber spatula. With rubber
spatula, gently fold in chopped apple and walnuts. Spoon pudding
mixture into prepared bowl. Cover bowl with foil, greased side down,
tying tightly with string.
4. Set bowl on rack in 8-12 quart saucepan. Pour in water to come
halfway up side of bowl, nut touching foil. Over high heat, heat to
boiling. Reduce heat to low; cover and simmer 2 1/2 to 3 hours, until
skewer inserted through foil into center of pudding comes out clean.
5. About 30 minutes before pudding is done, prepare Custard Sauce.
6. When pudding is done, cool in bowl on wire rack 10 minutes; loosen
pudding with metal spatula and invert into warm platter. Garnish
pudding with red and green candied cherries. Serve pudding warm with
warm sauce.
*** CUSTARD SAUCE ***
1. In heavy 2-quart saucepan over low heat, or in double boiler over
hot, not boiling, water, with wire whisk, beat egg yolks, sugar, and
salt. Gradually stir in milk and cook, stirring constantly, until
mixture thickens and coats the back of a spoon, about 25 minutes.
Stir in vanilla extract.
2. Serve sauce warm or cold over apple pie, fruitcake, cut-up fruit,
or ice cream.

