Title: Traditional Rolled Christmas Sugar Cookies
Categories: Cake/cookie
Yield: 1 servings
1 tb Lemon zest finely grated
1 ts Pure vanilla extract
Edible Tempera Color
3    Large egg whites
4 c  Powdered sugar
2 1/4 c  Bleached all-purpose flour
1/4 ts Salt
3/4 c  Sugar
12 tb Unsalted butter
3 tb Large egg
1/2 ts "    "
Food Processor method
In a small bowl, whisk together the flour and salt.
In a food processor with the metal blade, process the sugar until
very fine. Cut the butter into a few pieces and add it with the motor
running. Process until smooth and creamy. Add the egg, lemon zest, and
vanilla extract and process until incorporated, scraping the sides of
the bowl. Add the flour mixture and pulse in just until incorporated.
If the mix seems dry, add a few droplets of water and pulse in just
until the dough begins to clump together.
Electic Mixer Method
Soften the butter. In a mixing bowl, cream together the sugar and
butter until fluffy. Add the egg, lemon zest, and vanilla extract and
beat until blended. In a small bowl, whisk together the remaining dry
ingredients, On low speed, gradually add them to the butter mixture
and mix until incorporated. Add water, a few drops at a time, only
until the dough starts to come away from the sides of the bowl.
For both methods:
Scrape the dough onto a sheet of plastic wrap and use the wrap, not
your fingers, to form a thick flat disc. Wrap it well and refrigerate
for at least two hours, preferably no longer than 3.
Place 2 oven racks in the upper and lower thirds of the oven. Turn
oven on to 350 degrees F.
On a lightly floured surface, roll out the dough to a 1/8 inch
thickness. Cut shapes using your favorite Christmas cookie cutters or
cardboard patterns or freehand. With a small, angled metal spatula or
pancake turner, transfer the cookies to the prepared cookie sheets.
If desired, paint the cookies with Edible Tempera Color. If you are
planning to hang the cookies, make small holes with the blunt end of
a wooden skewer.
Reroll scraps, chilling them first, if necessary.
Bake for 8 - 12 min. or until the cookies begin to brown around the
edges. For even baking, rotate the cookie sheets from top to bottom
and front to back halfway through the baking period.
Use a small, angled metal spatula or pancake turner to transfer the
cookies to wire racks to cool before decorating with Royal Icing,
sprinkles and other glitter edibles.
Keeps several months in airtight container at room temperature.
Edible Tempera Color
Lightly beat 2 large egg yolks and spoon equal amounts of them into 5
small bowls or bowls. Use liquid food coloring to color each mixture.
For yellow, use 1/2 tsp. of yellow; for red, use 1/2 tsp of red: for
green, use 1/4 tsp of green: for blue, use 1/4 tsp. of blue: for
black, use 1 1/2 tsp of green, 1 1/2 tsp of red and 5 drops of blue.
Use a small clean paintbrush to paint the designs on the cookies
before baking.
( Great recipe for candy cane cookies with a ribbon and holly shaped
cookies.)
Recipe taken from Rose's Christmas Cookies by Rose Levy Beranbaum.
Submitted By COLLEEN ALLEN   On   12-21-95

