Title: TURKEY GALANTINE WITH CHESTNUT, APPLE AND SAUSAGE STUFFIN
Categories: Holiday, Main dish, Poultry
Yield: 12 servings
Turkey stock
1 c  Butter, melted, for basting
Chestnut Gravy or gravy of
- your choice
Formatted by Manny Rothstein
1    (12- to 14-pound) turkey,
- neck and giblets removed
6 c  To 8 c Chestnut, Apple and
- Sausage Stuffing, or
- stuffing of your choice
Wash turkey well, then pat dry. Locate wishbone in neck and remove
it by scraping paring knife along bone to expose it and loosening
meat around it with your thumb and forefinger.
Using poultry shears, cut along backbone on both sides from neck to
tail. Remove backbone and save for stock.
Carefully remove rib cage one side at time, starting with each
backbone edge, by scraping along ribs with paring knife, separating
flesh from the carcass. When you arrive at ball joints of wings and
thighs, cut through them to separate. Leave breastbone intact.
Lift carcass up and gently separate flesh from breastbone.
Lay turkey on work surface skin-side down and locate ball joint of
one thigh bone. Scrape flesh away from bone with back of your knife,
pushing it down until you reach knee joint. Cut away tendons joining
knee joint and continue scraping meat away from bone with knife until
you reach tip of leg. Repeat on other leg. Use cleaver to cut
drumstick just before tip, leaving tip and skin intact.
(Turkey can be prepared to this point 1 day in advance, then wrapped
and refrigerated. You can also ask your butcher to bone turkey for
you. Ask butcher to leave tips of legs intact and to give you bones
for stock.) Just before cooking, stuff turkey: Lay turkey skin-side
down on work surface, opened like a book. Spoon stuffing loosely into
legs and then spoon remainder down middle of turkey. Bring edges up
to form into something like original shape. Before cooking, bird will
look slightly under-stuffed. Stuffing will expand during cooking, and
overstuffing could cause the skin to burst.
Use skewers or bamboo sticks to join edges of flesh where backbone
had been. Secure both ends with skewers and tuck wings under. Truss
turkey as you would a roast.
Place extra stuffing in covered casserole dish, drizzle with little
stock and butter and roast for about 1 1/2 hours with turkey.
Brush turkey all over with melted butter and set breast-side up on
rack in roasting pan. Roast at 325 degrees, basting with butter or
pan juices every 30 minutes. If turkey begins to brown too quickly,
tent loosely with foil. Check for doneness by inserting thermometer
into center of stuffing. Thermometer should register 175 degrees (155
degrees. Manny), about 15 minutes per pound. Allow turkey to cool
slightly before carving so that stuffing firms.
While turkey is cooling, make gravy, then serve.
Makes 12 to 14 servings.

Each of 12 servings, with stuffing and gravy, contains about: 861
calories 1,455 mg sodium 289 mg cholesterol 52 grams fat 29 grams
carbohydrates 63 grams protein 0.76 gram fiber.

From Julianne Ryan, Special to The Times, Copyright Los Angeles Times,
November 16, 1995
Submitted By MANNY ROTHSTEIN   On   11-25-95

