Title: Zucchini Bread Baked in a Jar
Categories: Breads
Yield: 6 servings
3 lg Eggs
1 c  OIL
2 c  Zucchini, grated
1/4 ts Nutmeg
1 ts Vanilla
1/2 c  Pecans, chopped
3 c  All-purpose flour
1 ts Salt
1 ts Baking powder
1 ts Baking soda
2 ts Cinnamon
1/4 ts Ground cloves
2 c  Sugar
Sterilize 8 Ball Quilted Crystal (#14400-81400) jam/jelly canning
jars, lids and rings by boiling them for 15 minutes. Remove the jars
from the water and allow them to air dry; leave the lids and rings in
the hot water until you're ready to use them--the rings MUST be hot
when used. If you can find them, you can also use 4 (1-1/2 pint)
straight-sided jars. They must NOT have buldges in the sides of the
jars or you won't be able to get the cakes out without digging them
out. Look for the number of the jar I've given you--once you see what
they look like, you'll know what to look for. Once the jars are cool
enough to handle, grease them with shortening (DO NOT use butter,
margarine, PAM or Baker's Secret). Fill jars 1/2 full; place onto a
cookie sheet.

Preheat oven to 325-degrees (NO HIGHER!)

Sift together the flour, salt, baking powder baking soda, cinnamon and
cloves; set aside.

Beat eggs until foamy.  Add sugar, oil, zucchini and vanilla. Mix
well with beater. Add flour mixture to zucchini mixture. Add nuts.

For the pint jars, bake for about 35 minutes, moving the jars around
in the oven so they'll bake evenly. Start checking the cakes at 25
minutes, and go from there. The bread needs to be done, but not
over-done. For the 1-1/2 pint jars, bake for about 1 hour and 15
minutes; start checking them at 1 hour and go from there.

Using HEAVY DUTY MITTS (the jars ARE HOT!), remove the jars from the
oven one-at-a-time. Place a lid, then a ring on top and screw down
tightly. Place jars onto your counter top to cool completely. You'll
know when they've sealed, you'll hear a "plinking" sound. In case you
don't hear it, double- check the jars by pushing down in the middle
of the lids once the jars have sealed--they shouldn't move at all.
Submitted By BARRY WEINSTEIN   On   12-11-95

