Title: GREAT GARDENER'S- SHORT RECIPES I
Categories: Flower, Tips
Yield: 13 Recipes
(CONTENTS):
Flower-Glazed Cheeses
Quick Chili Spread
Herbed Spread
Green Pepper Dip
Tuna Pate
Shrimp Mold
Walnut Cream Cheese Spread
Easy Chicken & Corn Chowder
Cold Blueberry Soup
Pink Lady Salad
Green Bean and Pea Salad
Crystallized Violets
Perfect Filet Mignon
~FLOWER-GLAZED CHEESES-

Soften 1 envelope plain gelatin in 2 cups cold water or white wine
and heat to dissolve. Decorate cheeses with edible flowers and herbs
such as nasturtiums, marigolds, violets, roses, pansies, basil,
chives, lavender or rosemary. Brush with gelatin mixture and chill
until set.

~QUICK CHILI SPREAD-

Mix 8 ounces cream cheese, one 15-ounce can chili without beans and 2
cups shredded chedder cheese in quiche pan. Bake at 350 degrees for
20 minutes and serve warm with corn chips.

~HERBED SPREAD-

Add a small amount of crushed marjoram, dill, basil, thyme and garlic
powder to a block of cream cheese; mix well.

~GREEN PEPPER DIP-

Mix 8 ounces cream cheese, 1 chopped green bell pepper, 1/4 chopped
onion, 1 tablespoon sour cream, 1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce and
salt to taste. Serve chilled with crackers.

~TUNA PATE-

Combine 8 ounces cream cheese, 2 tablespoons chili sauce, 2
tablespoons parsley, 2 teaspoons minced onion, 1/2 teaspoon hot
pepper sauce and 12 ounces canned tuna. Pack into 4-cup mold and
chill overnight.

~SHRIMP MOLD-

Mix 8 ounces cream cheese, 3/4 cup mayonnaise, 1/2 cup chopped
celery, 1/4 cup chopped onion, 1/2 teaspoon salt and 2 cups chopped
shrimp. Soften 1 envelope gelatin in 1/2 can tomato soup in saucepan
and heat to dissolve gelatin. Add shrimp mixture and chill in mold
until set.

~WALNUT CREAM CHEESE SPREAD-

Combine 8 ounces cream cheese, 1 bunch chopped scallions, 1 chopped
green bell pepper, 5 ounces walnuts and 1 tablespoon sugar. Serve
with bagels or pumpernickel.

~EASY CHICKEN AND CORN CHOWDER-

Mix 1 can potato soup, 1 can cream-style corn, 1 can chunk chicken, 1
envelope chicken broth mix and 2 cups milk in saucepan and heating to
serving temperature.

~COLD BLUEBERRY SOUP-

Simmer 1 pint blueberries in 2 cups water with 1 sliced lemon, 1/2 cup
sugar and 1 cinnamon stick in saucepan for 15 minutes. Remove cinnamon
stick. Cool slightly before pureeing in blender to desired
consistency; chill. Serve with sour cream.

~PINK LADY SALAD-

Bring one 20-ounce can pineapple and one 6-ounce package strawberry
gelatin to a boil in saucepan and cool. Mix in 8 ounces creamed
cheese. Beat 1 well chilled can evaporated milk until fluffy and fold
into salad. Chill until firm.

~GREEN BEAN AND PEA SALAD-

Mix one can of French-style green beans, 1 can of tiny green peas, 4
chopped stalks of celery, 1 can of chopped pimento, 3/4 cup sugar,
1/2 cup vinegar and 1/4 cup oil. Marinate in refrigerator overnight.

~CRYSTALLIZED VIOLETS-

Dip blossoms into mixture of 1 egg white beaten with 1 tablespoon
water. Sprinkle with sugar and dry for 12 hours. Store in airtight
container.

~PERFECT FILET MIGNON-

Preheat oven to 500 degrees and roast for 10 minutes. Reduce oven
temperature to 325 degrees and roast for 45 to 50 minutes for
medium-rare and 55 to 60 minutes for medium. Let stand for 5 to 10
minutes and season with garlic powder, salt and pepper.

*All recipes from "Great Recipes form Great Gardeners"
The Pennsylvania Horticultural Society Cookbook

