Title: GREAT GARDENER'S- SHORT RECIPES III
Categories: Flower, Tips
Yield: 14 Recipes
MMMMM--------------------------CONTENTS-------------------------------
Spinach and Rice Casserole
Vegetables Provencale
Tomato Dumplings
Chicken-Noodle Rice
Quick Banana Dessert
Simple Jam
Toast Treat
Easy Beer Bread
Chicken Sauce for Pasta
Anchovy Pesto
Easy Fruit Dessert
Dessert Sauce
Custard Sauce
Easy Shortbread
~SPINACH AND RICE CASSEROLE-

Combine 1 package frozen spinach, cooked, 1 cup cooked rice, 1 cup
cheese, 2 beaten eggs, 1/3 cup milk, 3 tablespoons melted butter, 2
tablespoons chopped onion, 1/2 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce and 1/2
teaspoon rosemary and bake at 350 degrees for 25 minutes.

~VEGETABLES PROVENCALE-

Simmer 4 sliced small zucchini, 2 1/2 cups chopped eggplant, 1 chopped
onion, 2 minced cloves of garlic, one 16-ounce can tomatoes, 1
teaspoon salt and 1/2 teaspoon oregano for 10 to 15 minutes or until
tender-crisp.

~TOMATO DUMPLINGS-

Wrap small peeled and cored tomatoes in flattented cresent roll dough
and bake at 400 degrees for 20 to 25 minutes. Serve with heated sauce
of 1 can Chedder cheese soup and 3 tablespoons milk; spprinkle with
chopped green onions and crumbled  crisp-fried bacon.

~CHICKEN-NOODLE RICE-

Saute 1 cup rice in 1/4 cup butter and adding 1 envelope chicken
noodle soup mix and 4 cups hot water. Simmer for 30 minutes.

~QUICK BANANA DESSERT-

Add a pat of butter, a tablespoon of brown sugar and a dash of
cinnamon and nutmeg to a sliced banana. Wrap in foil; bake at 350
degrees for 15 minutes. Serve from the foil.

~SIMPLE JAM-

Cook diced fruit in a small amount of water until tender. Add a small
amount of sugar and cook until thickened. Store in the refrigerator.

~TOAST TREAT-

Toast bread slightly and then cut into strips. Spread 1 side with
butter. Sprinkle with confectioners' sugar, shredded coconut and
cinnamon. Brown lighlt in oven.

~EASY BEER BREAD-

Mix 3 cups self-rising flour and 3 tablespoons sugar with one
12-ounce can of beer at room temperature. Place in greased loaf pan
and let rise for 30 minutes. Bake at 350 degrees for 1 hour.

~CHICKEN SAUCE FOR PASTA-

Heat 1 can cream of chicken soup, 1 small can evaporated skim milk, 1
can chunk chicken, 1/2 cup grated Parmesan cheese and basil to taste.

~ANCHOVY PESTO-

Crush 1 anchovy filet with 2 tablespoons grated Parmesan cheese. Mix
with equal parts softened butter.

~EASY FRUIT DESSERT-

Combine fresh fruit with liqueur: Curacao with oranges or pineapple;
Grand Marnier with grapefruit or strawberries; Kirsch with bananas,
peaches or melons; Champagne with strawberries or peaches; and Ruby
Port with pears or figs.

~DESSERT SAUCE-

Mix 1 cup sour cream, 1/2 cup packed brown sugar and 1/2 teaspoon
vanilla extract.

~CUSTARD SAUCE-

Combine 3 or 4 egg yolks with 1/4 cup sugar in double boiler. Add 2
cups scalded milk and cook over hot water until thickened, stirring
constantly. Chill until serving time.

~EASY SHORTBREAD-

Cream 1 1/2 cups butter with 3/4 cup sugar and mix in 3 cup flour.
Pat into 9x13-inch baking pan and bake at 300 degrees for 1 hour.
Sprinkle generously with sugar while hot.

*All recipes from "Great Recipes form Great Gardeners"
The Pennsylvania Horticultural Society Cookbook

