Title: GREEK GYRO
Categories: Greek, Harned 1994, Sandwiches, Veal, Vegetables
Yield: 6 Servings
2 lb Lean, boneless lamb*
-- cut in 1" cubes
1/3 c  Olive oil
1/2 c  Fresh lemon juice
2    Garlic cloves
-- peeled, cut in quarters
1 ts Chopped fresh thyme
1 ts Chopped fresh oregano or
1 ts Chopped fresh marjoram
Fresh ground pepper to taste
2    Spanish onions; cut in
-thinly sliced rings
24 sm Romaine lettuce leaves
-- washed and dried
6 lg Pita bread rounds
3 md Ripe tomatoes
MMMMM--------------------GARLIC YOGURT SAUCE-------------------------
2 c  Plain yogurt
1    Garlic clove
-- peeled and minced
1 ts Chopped fresh oregano or
1 ts Chopped fresh marjoram
1 tb Fresh lemon juice
1 ts Olive oil
Salt and pepper; to taste
*Use meat cut from the leg or shoulder.

The morning before an afternoon barbecue, make marinade by combining
oil, lemon juice, garlic cloves, herbs and pepper in a medium bowl.
Remove about 1/4 cup to mix with the onions. Place lamb cubes in bowl
with remaining marinade; toss to coat well.

Place onions in small bowl and toss with reserved marinade. Cover with
plastic wrap and chill, up to several hours, turning several times.

Meanwhile, make yogurt sauce by lining a medium bowl with cheesecloth
and spooning in the yogurt.  Tie up edges of cheesecloth with string
to form a pouch. Suspend over bowl (tying from refrigerator rack
above bowl), or place in a colander over bowl and let stand to drain
several hours. Moisture will drip from the yogurt, giving it a
thicker consistency. Mix drained yogurt with minced garlic, chopped
herbs, lemon juice, oil, salt and pepper.  Cover and chill.  Makes
about 1 cup.

Stack pita bread rounds into 2 piles and wrap each in foil, dull side
out.

To barbecue, heat coals or gas barbecue.  Remove meat from marinade,
reserving some marinade for basting. (Discard any large garlic
pieces.) Thread lamb onto greased skewers and grill over greased
grill about 4" from hot coals.  Cook, turning and basting often,
about 10 minutes or until lamb is brown on the outside, still pink
inside. Warm pita rounds over barbecue.

Before serving, lift the onions from the marinade with a slotted
spoon and place in a serving bowl.  Cut whole tomatoes into thin
wedges and place on plate. Place lettuce leaves on plate. Set out
yogurt sauce and lots of napkins to facilitate handling of gyros.

To serve, cut each warmed pita bread in half and separate to form 2
pockets.  Each person fills a warmed pita picket with some of the
grilled lamb cubes, lettuce, tomatoes and onions, topping with a
spoonful of sauce.

Yield: 12 gyros, 2 per person.

From _Nancy Enright's Canadian Herb Cookbook_ by Nancy Enright.
Toronto: James Lorimer & Company, 1985.  Pp. 50-51. ISBN
0-88862-788-2. Electronic format by Cathy Harned.

