Title: GREEN TOMATILLO MOLE (HH)
Categories: Sauces, Mexican
Yield: 6 Servings
3 oz Hulled raw pumpkin seeds OR
3 oz Pine nuts
3 c  Chicken stock (no salt)
3/4 lb Tomatillos, husked & washed
2    Jalapenos or serranos (2-3)
1/2    Medium onion, rough chopped
3    Garlic cloves, rough chopped
4    Cilantro sprigs (4-5)
1/4 ts Cumin seeds or ground cumin
3/4    Inch cinnamon stick OR
3/4 ts Ground cinnamon
2    Whole cloves OR pinch ground
5    Lg Romaine lettuce leaves OR
5    Leaf lettuce leaves
Salt to taste
1 tb Safflower or sunflower oil
Toast the pumpkin seeds in a dry frying pan, shaking pan or stirring
constantly until they are browned and toasty (for pine nuts) or until
they have browned and popped (for pumpkin seeds). Remove from the
heat and transfer to a blender jar if you're using pine nuts or to a
bowl if you're using pumpkin seeds.  If you're using pine nuts, blend
with 1 cup of the stock until smooth, then strain through a
medium-mesh strainer. If you're using pumpkin sees, pulverize in a
spice mill in batches and sift into a bowl.  Stir in 1 cup of the
stock and mix well. Set aside.
Simmer tomatillos in water to cover with the chilies (remove
stems, seeds and membranes from chilies) and simmer for 10 to 15
minutes. Drain and place in the blender jar. Add the onion, garlic,
and cilantro. Grind the spices in a spice mill and add to the blender
jar. Add the lettuce leaves and salt. Blend until the mixture is
smooth
Heat the oil in a heavy-bottomed saucepan or casserole over
medium heat.  Add the nut or seed mixture and cook, stirring
constantly, until the mixture thickens, about 5 minutes.  Add the
tomatillo mixture and cook again, stirring for about 5 to 10 minutes,
until the mixture is thick. Stir in the remaining 2 cups chicken
stock, bring to a simmer, cover partially, and simmer for 30 minutes.
Taste and correct seasonings. If the mixture seems too thick, stir in
a little more chicken stock. Yield: About 3 cups sauce. Serve with
grilled or poached chicken breasts as main course. Use as a dip with
crudites, as a topping for nachos or enchiladas. Add lime or lemon
juice or vinegar and use as a salad dressing.
Sauce freezes well. Nutritional information - Per serving: 130
calories; 4G protein; 6G fat; 15g carbohydrate; 192MG sodium; 0
cholesterol. (Based on 6 servings).

