Title: GRILLED FLANK STEAK WITH PECANS~ BLACK BEANS
Categories: Main dish
Yield: 6 Servings
2    Jalapenos;w/ seeds,chopped
4    Serrano chiles; seeded,diced
1    Flank steak (1 1/2 to 2 lbs)
3/4 c  Corn oil
2 c  Dry red wine
2 tb Soy sauce
3 tb Fresh coriander; chopped
5    Garlic cloves; 3 chopped
1 tb Coarsely ground black pepper
1/3 c  Pecan halves
9 oz Unsalted butter
1 tb Minced chives
1/3 c  Chicken stock / canned broth
1/3 c  Red wine vinegar
1    Lg Shallot; chopped
1 ts Fresh lime juice
1/4 c  Black beans, cooked
Salt
Freshly ground black pepper
Flour tortillas; warmed
Place the flank steak in a shallow nonaluminum pan. Add 1 1/2 cups of
the wine and the oil, soy sauce, 2 tablespoons of the coriander,
Jalapenos, chopped garlic and the coarsely cracked black pepper.
Cover and marinate in the refrigerator for at least 2 hours or
overnight. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. In a small baking dish,
toast the pecans until slightly browned, about 5 minutes. Remove from
the oven and set aside. Rub the remaining two whole garlic cloves
with 1/2 tablespoon of the butter and roast in the oven until soft
and light brown, about 20 minutes. Reduce the oven temperature to 250
degrees. In a mortar, combine the pecans, roasted garlic and Serrano
chiles. Crush with a pestle. Blend in 2 tablespoons of the butter and
the chives. Preheat a grill or the broiler. In a medium nonaluminum
saucepan , combine the stock, remaining 1/3 cup red wine, the
vinegar, shallot, lime juice and 1 teaspoon of the coriander. Bring
to a boil over moderate heat and boil until reduced to 2 tablespoons,
10 to 12 minutes. Reduce the heat to low and whisk in the remaining 2
sticks of butter, 2 tablespoons at a time. Stir in the black beans
and season the sauce with salt and pepper to taste. Keep the sauce
warm over simmering water. Lightly brush the flank steak with oil.
Season with salt and pepper. Grill the steak over a moderately hot
fire or broil until medium rare, 5 to 7 minutes. Thinly slice the
steak crosswise on the diagonal and arrange on warmed plates. Spoon
the sauce over each serving and accompany with warm flour tortillas.
Chile Pepper Magazine

