Title: GRILLED CHICKEN BREAST SANDWICHES WITH ROASTE
Categories: Sandwiches, On the gril
6    chicken breast halves
without skin -- boned &
skinned
Yield: 6 Servings
:
:
5 TB olive oil
1 TB black pepper -- cracked
2 TB fresh thyme
2    red bell peppers
1/2 c  mayonnaise
1/4 c  Dijon mustard
1 ts Worcestershire sauce
1 ts red wine vinegar
1 ds salt
3 oz arugula leaves
3    red ripe tomatoes -- for
slicing
:
12 sl multi-grain bread

STEP ONE: For the Chicken-- Rub the chicken breasts with 3
tablespoons of the olive oil, the black pepper, and thyme leaves.
Cover and refrigerate a minimum of 6 hours, preferably overnight.
Remove from refrigerator
1    hour before cooking.

STEP TWO: For the Peppers-- Preheat oven to 500 degrees and place 2
red bell peppers on the rack and roast. Turn the peppers occasionally
until the skins are completely charred (20 to 30 minutes). Place the
peppers in a paper bag and seal the top. This allows them to steam
and aids in peeling. Remove the peppers from the bag and remove the
skins with your fingers. Sometimes a little cold running water helps.
Remove the cores and seeds and slice into 1/4-inch strips. Toss the
peppers with 2 tablespoons olive oil and store in a glass container
until ready to use.

If a charcoal fire is available, you can roast the peppers directly
on the coals. This can be very tricky, so you need to watch them
constantly. As the peppers begin to char, turn them so they char
evenly. Once you have an even char, proceed as in oven roasting. The
charcoal roasting imparts a smoky flavor that enhances the sandwich.

STEP THREE: For the Sauce-- Mix mayonnaise, Dijon mustard,
Worcestershire sauce, red wine vinegar, and dash of salt together
well and refrigerate in a glass container until ready to use.

STEP FOUR: Assembling the Sandwiches-- The chicken, peppers, and
mustard sauce can be prepared to this point a day in advance. When
you are ready to serve the sandwiches, prepare a charcoal fire or
preheat the broiler for the chicken and bread. Grill or broil the
breasts 6 to 10 minutes per side, depending on the heat of your fire.
As they are cooking, brush a little butter or olive oil  on one side
of 12 slices of the bread. When the breasts are cooked, transfer to a
platter and allow to cool slightly, at which time you will need to
either grill or broil the bread until slightly toasted. Spread a
liberal amount of the mustard sauce on the oiled or buttered side of
the bread slices so that the dry sides will be on the outside of the
sandwich.

Slice the breasts on a diagonal and place each sliced breast on a
slice of toasted bread. Top with some of the roasted pepper strips, 2
slices of tomato, some of the arugula, and the top piece of bread.
Cut and serve as you would with any sandwich. Serve immediately.

Can be served with cole slaw or "Roasted Potato Salad" (see recipe.)

: Ed Kasky of Engine Co. No. 28, Los Angeles
Recipe By

