Title: GRILLED CERVENA STRIPLOIN ON MIXED ROOT VEGET
Categories: New, Text, Import
Yield: 8 Servings
Cervena and Marinade:
2    Cervena striploins (5-6
-ounces per person)
2    Cloves minced garlic
2 md Shallots, peeled and sliced
1 tb Fresh thyme, leaves only
1/4 c  Olive oil
1 ts Freshly ground black pepper
Root Vegetables:
6 md Red bliss potatoes, boiled,
-peeled and dic
3 md Red beets, boiled, peeled
-and diced
2 md Celery roots, diced and
-boiled
2 md Parsnips, diced and boiled
2 md Carrots, diced and boiled
Salad Dressing and Garnish:
4 md Red onions, peeled and
-sliced julienne
3/4 c  Virgin olive oil
1/2 c  Red wine vinegar
2 ts Dijon mustard
2/3 c  Chicken stock
6    Scallions, sliced thin
4 tb Cilantro, chopped
Salt and pepper to taste
2/3 c  Chopped arugula
Lime juice
1    Granny Smith apple
-(optional), cut into th
2    Tortillas (optional) sliced
-into thin stri
METHOD Combine all marinade ingredients in a bowl. Rub mixture all
over striploins, wrap in plastic wrap, and refrigerate overnight.
Cook all of the root vegetables individually in salted water until
tender but not soft. Test by tasting. Drain the water and cool off on
a sheet pan. Prepare the dressing for the root vegetables in a medium
skillet. Saute the onions in the olive oil over medium heat for one
minute, stirring with a wooden spoon. Stir in the Dijon mustard, red
wine vinegar, then add the chicken stock. Bring to a boil, then
season with salt and fresh pepper. Toss the root vegetables and the
warm dressing in a stainless bowl (leave out the beets for later).
Cover the salad and let stand at room temperature until needed.
Unwrap the striploin, season with salt and grill over medium heat
until medium rare, 3-4 minutes on each side, and let rest. Toss the
cilantro, scallions, and beets into the salad, adjust salt and pepper
if necessary. Spoon salad on plate. Slice meat over salad. Garnish
with arugula, apples and tortillas, if desired. Yield: 8 servings
Posted to MC-Recipe Digest V1 #1

Recipe by: CHEF DU JOUR RICK MOONEN SHOW #DJ9325; TVFN

From: "Ed Bauman" <BIRCHCREEK@msn.com>

Date: Thu, 5 Dec 96 19:56:03 UT

