Title: KADIN GOBEGI (LADIES' NAVELS)
Categories: Desserts
Yield: 20 Servings
MMMMM---------------------------SYRUP--------------------------------
2 c  Granulated sugar
1 1/2 c  Water
1/2    Lemon; strained juice only
MMMMM------------------------CHOUX PASTRY-----------------------------
1 c  Plain flour
1/4 ts Salt
1 c  Water
1/4 c  Butter
2 lg Eggs; lightly beaten
1/8 ts Almond essence
MMMMM-------------------------TO FINISH------------------------------
Oil; for shaping and frying
Whipped cream or kaymak
-(kaymak is clotted cream)
1/4 c  Blanched pistachio nuts
-(finely chopped)
In a heavy pan dissolve sugar in water over medium
heat, stirring occasionally.  Bring to the boil, add
lemon juice and boil rapidly, without stirring, for 15
minutes.  Leave syrup in pan to cool. Sift flour and
salt onto a square of stiff paper. In another heavy
pan heat water and butter until boiling.  Pour in
flour all at once, stirring constantly with a wooden
spoon or balloon whisk. Keep stirring until mixture
leaves sides of pan, then cook on low heat, stirring
occasionally, for further 5 minutes.  Remove roux from
heat and turn into a bowl.  Cool for 2 minutes then
gradually beat in eggs.  Add almond essence and beat
until smooth and satiny.  A balloon whisk will break
up lumps, a wooden spoon is better for beating to a
smooth finish, so utilize the two for the process.
Oil hands and take pieces of dough the size of a
walnut.  Roll into smooth balls and place on an oiled
tray.  Flatten into rounds about 5 cm (2 inches) in
diameter and press oiled forefinger into centre of
each to make a hole.  Keep hands oiled during shaping
so that dough will not stick. Place enough oil in a
large electric frypan to come to a depth of 1 cm (1/2
inch).  Heat until just warm and place half of the
prepared gobegi into oil.  Increase heat to 200oC
(400oF) as soon as they are added.  When gobegi rise
to the surface and are puffed, turn them over. Fry
them for 15 minutes in all, timed from when the gobegi
are first placed into pan. Turn frequently during last
half of cooking time so that they brown evenly.
When cooked, remove from oil with a slotted spoon and
drain briefly on paper towels.  Put into syrup, turn
them and leave for 5 minutes before removing to a
plate. Turn off frypan and allow oil to cool before
adding second lot. To serve, arrange gobegi on a flat
platter and place a dollop of whipped cream or kaymak
in the center.  Sprinkle with pistachio nuts. NOTE: If
you have no electric frypan, use a large frying pan
set on a thermostatically controlled hot plate or
burner.  Otherwise use an ordinary burner, start at
low and increase heat to midway between medium and
high settings. Variation: Dilber Dudagi (Lips of the
Beauty) Follow above directions, but flatten the balls
of dough in your hand to a 6 cm (2-1/2 inch) round and
fold dough over so that pastry resembles lips on
curved edge.  Place on an oiled tray until all are
shaped.  Fry and finish as for Kadin Gobegi.  Serve
plain or with whipped cream or kaymak.

