Title: KAHLUA WHITE RUSSIAN CAKE
Categories: Cakes, Chocolate, Alcohol
Yield: 10 Servings
3 tb Kahlua
2 tb Vodka
3 oz White baking bar w/cocoa cho
2 c  Sifted cake flour
3/4 ts Baking soda
1/2 ts Baking powder
1 1/4 c  Sugar
1/2 c  Butter
2 tb Shortening
3    Eggs
3/4 c  Buttermilk
1/3 c  Apricot jam
MMMMM-----------------KAHLUA WHITE RUSSIAN CREME----------------------
2 c  Whipping cream
1/2 c  Powdered sugar
1/4 c  Kahlua
2 tb Vodka
White baking bar w/cocoa shaved into curls (I use
potatoe peeler for this) In med heavy saucepan combine
Kahlua, vodka and 3 oz chopped white baking bar. Cook
and stir over low heat till baking bar is melted, cool
slightly. Grease and lightly flour three 8x1 1/2 round
baking pans (I use my 9") In small bowl stir flour,
baking soda, and baking powder, set aside . In large
bowl combine sugar, butter and shortening, beat
w/electric mixer on med spd till light and fluffy. Add
eggs, ONE at a time, beating till combined. Beat in
the cooled liqueur mixture. Alternately add flour
mixture and buttermilk to egg mixture, beating on low
to med spd after each addition till combined. Spread
the batter evenly in pans. Bake at 350~F for 20-25
mins or till toothpick in center comes out clean. Cool
the cake layers in the pans on wire racks for 10 mins.
Remove from pans and cool completely on wire racks. To
assemble, place one layer, bottom side up, on a
serving plate. Spread layer w/about 3 TB of the jam
and 1/3 C of the Kahlua White Russian Cream. Place a
2nd layer on top of first, bottom side up, spread
w/remaining jam and 1/3 c of the cream. Top
w/remaining cake layer, bottom side up. Swirl
remaining cream onto the top and sides of cake.
Decorate top (I do the sides too, looks soooo pretty!)
w/baking bar curls. COVER AND CHILL FOR UP TO 24
HOURS!!! To serve, cut into wedges, dipping knife into
water between slides. 12-16 servings. KAHLUA WHITE
RUSSIAN CREAM In chilled med bowl combine Whipping
cream, and sifted fpowdered sugar. Beat w/electric
mixer on low speed until thickened. Gradually add
kahlua and Vodka, beat on low speed until soft peaks
form. DO NOT OVERBEAT.

