Title: KHOUBIZ (LEBANESE FLAT BREAD)
Categories: Breads, Lebanese
Yield: 8 Servings
6 c  Plain flour
1 pk Active dry yeast
2 c  Warm water
1 1/2 ts Salt
1 ts Sugar
2 tb Oil
Makes 8 loaves Oven temperature: 260 C (500 F) Cooking
time: 4-5 minutes

Sift flour into a large mixing bowl and warm in a low
oven.

Dissolve yeast in 1/4 cup warm water, add remaining
water and stir in salt and sugar.

Remove about 2 cups flour from bowl and set aside.
Pour yeast liquid into centre and stir in some flour
to make a thick liquid.  Cover with cloth and leave in
a warm place until frothy.

Stir in rest of flour, adding oil gradually, then beat
until smooth, either by hand for 10 minutes, or on
electric mixer using dough hook for 5 minutes.

Sprinkle some of the reserved flour onto a board, turn
out dough and knead for 10 minutes, using more flour
as required.  Dough is ready when it is smooth and
satiny with a slightly wrinkled texture.  Shape dough
into a ball.

Oil bowl, put in dough smooth side down then turn over
so that top is coated with oil.  Stretch plastic wrap
over bowl and leave in a warm place to rise until
almost doubled in bulk -- about 1 to 1-1/2 hours.
Preheat oven.

Punch down dough and turn out onto lightly floured
board.  Knead for a minute or so, then divide into 8
equal pieces, rolling each into a ball.

Roll each piece into a 25 cm (10 inch) round and place
on a lightly floured cloth.  Cover with another cloth
and leave for 20 minutes.

Heat a large baking sheet or flat griddle on the
lowest shelf in an electric oven; in a gas oven select
the section of the oven with the most heat, probably
near the top.

Place a round of dough on a lightly floured baking
sheet with one flat edge or on a piece of plywood,
spreading it evenly.  Shake to ensure that it will
slide off easily.

Rub heated baking sheet or griddle with wad of paper
towel dipped in oil then slide dough onto it.  Bake in
hot oven for 4-5 minutes until it puffs up like a
balloon.  If you would like it browned on top, turn
quickly and leave for a minute.  Remove bread and wrap
in a cloth to keep it warm and soft.  Bake remaining
loaves.

To bake in an electric frypan (a good alternative if
your gas oven does not heat evenly):  Preheat frypan
on highest setting with metal lid on, vent closed.
When heated, oil base quickly and slide dough onto
base. Cover and cook for 3 minutes, remove lid, turn
bread over, re-cover and cook further 2 minutes.

* Source: The Complete Middle East Cookbook - by Tess
Mallos * Typos courtesy of: Karen Mintzias Converted
by MMCONV vers. 1.20

