Title: KITCHEN GIFTS
Categories: Gifts, Holidays, Spices
Yield: 14 Servings
1    Serving
1 tb Garlic powder
1 ts Ground basil
1 ts Ground thyme
1 ts Ground parsley
1 ts Ground savory
1 ts Ground mace
1 ts Ground sage
1 ts Onion powder
1 ts Ground black pepper
1/2 ts Cayenne
Makes about 1/4 cup.
Sorry to be sending these so late but I remember
several people talking about making gift baskets of
homemade goodies for Xmas. Thought the following spice
recipes might be good inclusions to such a gift.

I will be using baby food jars for storing and sending
these for gifts.

AHA Herb Mix Marinade

Combine the ingredients and store the herb mix in a
spice jar.  If you are using herbs in leaf form,
combine all the ingredients, and process them in a
blender until they are ground.

This no-salt seasoning mix is from the American Heart
Association.

Use this mixture in a Turkey Meatball Stroganoff, with
anything in a yogurt sauce, in beef stew, in place of
poultry seasoning, for examples.

This can be made in large quantities and stored in
airtight spice jars. If you start with herbs that are
in leaf form, use 1 1/2 tsp each of basil, parsley and
sage, and 1 1/4 tsp of thyme and savory.

Found in: Jane Brody's Good Food Gourmet Posted by:
Sheila Exner - November 1991

Cajun Spice Mix Marinade Servings: 2

1 1/8 c  Sweet paprika 1/4 c Cayenne 1/4 c Freshly
ground black pepper 2 Oregano 2 T Onion powder 2 T
Thyme leaves 1 T Celery seed 1 1/2 ts Garlic powder

Makes about 2 cups

Grind the ingredients together in a blender or food
processor, and store the mix in spice jars.

This is marvelous on fish fillets, obviating the need
for any other flavoring, including fat.  Try it, too,
on shellfish, in pasta dishes, or on baked potatoes.

Recipe devised by Pat Zito, author of the Supermarket
Guide to Cholesterol and Saturated Fat Found in: Jane
Brody's Good Food Gourmet Posted by: Sheila Exner

Kay's Saltless Seasoning Marinades Servings: 4

1 T  Whole cumin seed 5 ea Whole cloves 1 ts Cardomon
seeds* 1 ea 4 inch stick cinnamon 1 ts Black
peppercorns 3 ea Bay leaves 1/2 ts Freshly grated
nutmeg 12 ea Allspice berries 1/4 c Dried parsley
flakes 2 T Freeze-dried minced onion 2 T Ground
tumeric 4 ts Ground coriander 3 T Fenugreek seeds 1 ts
Ground ginger 2 T Celery seeds 3 c Powdered nonfat milk

Make about 4 cups

*Remove cardamon seeds from the pods.

Combine the ingredients in a bowl and grind them in
batches in a spice or coffee grinder or in a mini-jar
of a blender until the seasoning is finely powdered.
Store the seasoning in spice jars.

Kay Buttenheim of Mount Kisco, New York, is an herb
enthusiast and a wonderful, health-conscious cook who
prepares vats of this seasoning to use as gifts as
well as at home.

Kay says she uses the seasoning on fish and chicken,
in soups, curry sauces, Bloody Marys, and on
vegetables like winter squash.

Found in: Jane Brody's Good Food Gourmet Posted by:
Sheila Exner

