Title: KITCHEN HINTS
Categories: Info/tips, Ceideburg 2
Yield: 1 Info
No Ingredients Found
I thought I'd pass along some hints to help those of
us that get into trouble from time to time.  It's not
recipes, but what the heck!

If you've over-salted soup or vegetables, add cut raw
potatoes and then discard once they have cooked and
absorbed the salt.

A teaspoon each of cider vinegar and sugar added to
salty soup or vegetables will also remedy the salty
situation.

If you've over-sweetened a dish, add salt.

A teaspoon of cider vinegar will take care of
too-sweet main dishes or vegetables.

Pale gravy may be browned by adding a bit of instant
coffee straight from the jar.  No bitter taste, either.

If you will brown the flour well before adding to the
liquid when making gravy, you will avoid pale or lumpy
gravy.

If time allows, the best method of removing fat is
refrigeration until the fat hardens.  If you put a
piece of waxed paper over the top of the meal, it can
be peeled right off, along with the hardened fat. Ice
cubes will also eliminate the fat from soup and stew.
Just drop a few into the pot and stir; the fat will
cling to the cubes; discard the cubes before they
melt.  Or, wrap ice cubes in paper towel or
cheesecloth and skim over the top.

A slice of soft bread placed in the package of
hardened brown sugar will soften it again in a couple
of hours.

A little salt placed in a frying pan will prevent
splattering.

Meat Loaf will not stick if you place a slice of bacon
on the bottom of the pan.

Vinegar brought to a boil in a new frying pan will
prevent foods from sticking.

No sticking to the pan when you're scalding milk if
you'll first rinse the pan in cold water.

A lump of butter or a few teaspoons of cooking oil
added to water when boiling rice, noodles, macaroni,
or spaghetti will prevent boiling over.

A few drops of lemon juice added to simmering rice
will keep the grains separate.

A dampened paper towel or terry cloth brushed downward
on a cob of corn will remove every strand of corn silk.

To determine if an egg is fresh, immerse it in a pan
of cool, salted water. If it sinks, it is fresh; it it
rises to the surface, throw it away.

Fresh eggs' shells are rough and chalky; old eggs are
smooth and shiny.

To determine if an egg is hard-boiled, spin it.  If it
spins, it is hard-boiled.  If it wobbles, it is raw.

Egg shells can be easily removed from hard-boiled eggs
if they are boiled in salty water and quickly rinsed
in cold water.

No "curly" bacon for breakfast when you dip it into
cold water before frying.

Keep bacon slices from sticking together; roll the
package into a tube shape and secure with rubber bands.

Posted by Stephen Ceideburg July 27 1990.

