Title: KOLACH (BRAIDED BREAD)
Categories: Russian, Christmas, Breads
Yield: 3 Servings
1 ts Sugar
1 c  ;Water, Lukewarm
2 pk Dry Yeast
3 tb Sugar
2 c  Milk; (About 110 Degrees F.)
2 lg Eggs
1 tb Salt
2 tb Oil Or Melted Butter; You
-Can Use Up To 4 Tbs
8 c  Unbleached Flour; Or More
-If Needed
1 lg Egg; Beaten With
1 tb Water; For Glaze
2 tb Dry Poppy Seeds
Disolve 1 tsp sugar in the water and sprinkle the
yeast over it.  Add 1 Tbl of sugar, stir and let stand
for 10 minutes.  Combine the yeast with the milk,
lightly beaten eggs, salt, 2 tbl sugar, oil, and 3
cups of sifted flour.  Beat until smooth.  Cover and
let rise in a warm place until light and bubbly, about
1 hour.  Mix in enough of the remaining flour to make
a light, slightly sticky dough, then knead in the bowl
until smooth and elastic,(Remember the heavier the
dough, the heavier the bread.) and leaves the sides of
the bowl easily.  Or in the processor, add the yeast
mixture to the flour and then add the liquids.  With
the machine running, add more flour until a ball
forms.  Allow to rest for several minutes. Process
until the dough is smooth and elastic.  Form into a
ball and place in a lightly oiled bowl, turning once
to oil the top.  Cover with a linen dish towl, soaked
in hot water and then wrung out until damp only, and
let rise in a warm place until double in bulk.  Punch
down and allow to rise again, slightly.  Divide the
dough into 3 parts.  Divide 1 part into thirds,
rolling each into a rope 8 to 10 inches long and 1 1/2
inches thick. Braid together, starting at the middle
and turn the ends under. Repeat with each of the
remaining parts of the dough.  Place the loaves on
buttered baking sheets.  Do not crowd, since the
loaves will double in size. Cover with the damp towel
and let rise until almost double. Brush with the egg
glaze and sprinkle with the poppy seeds.  Bake in a
preheated 375 Degrees F. oven at least 1 hour, or
until golden.  Test by rapping the bottom, there
should be a nice hollow sound.  Cool on wire racks
until cold before cutting.

Courtesy of Rich Harper

