Title: KOREAN SHORT RIBS***BGKP90A
Categories: Main dish, Beef, Ethnic
Yield: 1 Servings
1 c  Soy sauce ;(not heavy or di
1/3 c  Brown sugar
5 c  Garlic, minced or crushed
3 tb Vegetable oil ; or sesame o
The following is a recipe for Korean Short Ribs, Kal
Bi (that's the phonetic spelling I've seen used in
Hawaii and in Korean rest. in U.S. The following is a
recipe for Korean Short Ribs, Kal Bi (that's the
phonetic spelling I've seen used in Hawaii and in
Korean rest. in U.S. Combine all the ingredients into
a pan and marinate up to abt 4 to 5 lbs of beef short
ribs.   Marinate at least 2 hrs, preferably overnight.
Ribs can be  left  whole or they can be English cut
by the butcher or market.    Au- thentic  Korean style
is to slice very carefully and very thinly while
"unrolling" the rib as you go. If done correctly,
you'll end up with a strip of meat the width of the
bone x abt 6" to 9" long of uniform thickness with the
bone still attached by the cartilage or membrane on
the  bone. Grill over hot coals quickly try for medium
rare. Serve with white steamed rice and an oriental
salad or veggie for side dish. It's super easy and
quick.   Good for BBQ w/ friends. And for those that
are lucky enuf to live in Maui, these are availabel
fresh daily at Azeki's Meat Market,  Kihei. People
buy them there and take them home to BBQ for visiting
friends  from the Mainland. They will also pack them
up for you frozen with advance no- tice so you can
take them home with you on the air plane  at   no
extra charge!
We  brought home 20 lbs to SFO and they were no
worse  for  the travel.   I've talked to people that
took them all the way  to  Chicago with no problems.
Last time I was there, a lady from Seattle was
arranging for them to ship 120 lbs, frozen. She was
hosting a dinner party for 45 people and she wanted
some for the freezer for future use. If you've never
tried them, watch for Korean rest. in your area and
try em.You'll like them.   Jim Quon, SF FROM:    JAMES
QUON (BGKP90A)

