Title: KOREAN BARBECUE - BULGOGI
Categories: Beef, Bar-b-q, Korean
Yield: 6 Servings
2 lb Lean Beef Tenderloin
1/2 c  Light Soy Sauce
1/4 c  Dark Soy Sauce
1/2 c  Water
3 tb Finely Chopped Green Onion
3 ts Crushed Garlic
2 ts Finely Minced Fresh Ginger
1/2 ts Black Pepper
1 tb Sugar
2 tb White Sesame Seeds, Toasted
- And Ground
1 tb Sesame Oil
Bulgogi or Bulgalbi, broiled (grilled) beef strips and
beef ribs respectively, exemplify an age-old tradition
of cooking on a curved iron hotplate - a tradition
that is matched in northern China and neighboring
Mongolia as introduced by the Manchurians.  Today this
has been streamlined for table service, with specially
built cone-shaped hotplates fitted over tabletop
burners, to provide an enjoyable and intimate eating
experience. Meats of all kinds, including mutton, pork
and poultry, offal and seafood, are cooked in this
way, being first marinated in a spicy mixture
encompassing the characteristic seasonings: soy sauce,
sesame oil, garlic, ginger, pepper or chili, toasted
sesame seeds and green onions. The meat is marinated
well in advance so that the flavor is intense. Cooking
time is minimal - just enough to cook through and seal
the surface. Serve Bulgogi with white rice and
yangnyum kanjang sauce, together with a selection of
accompaniments such as kim chee (chili pickled
cabbage) and jeot khal (spiced whitefish).
~------------------------------------------------------
~----------------- Cut the beef across the grain into
very thin slices, then cut into narrow strips.  In a
glass or stainless steel dish mix all remaining
ingredients together. Add the beef and stir
thoroughly. Cover and let marinate for at least 3
hours.

Preheat a tabletop broiler (griller), protecting the
tabletop with an asbestos mat or other suitable heat
shield.

Each diner, or the host/hostess, places a portion of
meat on the broiler (griller) and cooks it quickly on
both sides. The meat is dipped into the sauce before
eating. Use wooden chopsticks or small forks/fondue
forks.

