Title: LAMB PHYLLO ROLLS
Categories: Main dish
Yield: 6 Servings
5 tb Extra-virgin olive oil
6 tb Unsalted butter
1 lg Onion; finely chopped
1 1/2 lb Lean lamb, finely ground
2 lg Ripe tomatoes; peeled, diced
1 ts Honey
1 tb Ground cinnamon; OR to taste
1/2 ts Sea salt; OR to taste
1 ts Cracked black pepper
-OR to taste
1/4 c  Reduced meat stock
-=OR=- robust red wine
1 1/2 tb Minced flat-leaf parsley
1 c  Fresh myzithra cheese; -OR-
- Small curd cottage cheese,
- drained
1/3 c  Finely grated feta cheese
1/2 ts Grated nutmeg
2    Egg yolks
12    Phyllo sheets
MMMMM------------------------FOR SERVING-----------------------------
Confectioners' sugar
Ground cinnamon
Warm 1 tablespoon of the olive oil and 2 tablespoons of the butter in
a heavy skillet and saute the onion over low heat until soft, about 8
minutes.  Raise the heat, add the meat, and saute until lightly
browned, breaking up any lumps with a wooden spoon.  Add the
tomatoes, honey, cinnamon, salt, and 1/2 teaspoon of the pepper, and
bring to a boil. Add the stock, bring to a boil, reduce the heat, and
simmer 15 minutes, or until almost all the liquid has evaporated.
Add the marjoram and parsley, and additional cinnamon, marjoram, and
pepper to taste (do not add salt at this point, as the cheese mixture
is salty). Set aside, or refrigerate for up to 24 hours. Heat the
oven to 375 F. Press the myzithra through a sieve or food mill into a
bowl.  Combine with the feta, nutmeg, remaining 1/2 teaspoon pepper,
and the egg yolks, cover and set aside. Combine the remaining 4
tablespoons butter and olive oil in a small saucepan, and melt over
very low heat.  Brush a heavy baking sheet with some of this mixture.
Lay the phyllo sheets one on top of another and cut in half crosswise
to make 24 sheets.  Tightly rewrap half the sheets and refrigerate.
Lay 1 of the remaining sheets on a clean work surface, with a long
end facing you, and brush lightly with the butter mixture.  Lay a
second sheet on top, brush it with the mixture, and repeat with a
third sheet. Lay another sheet on top. Divide the meat mixture into 6
portions. Place 1 portion on the bottom third of the top phyllo sheet
and shape it into a sausage about 8 inches long. Divide the cheese
filling into 6 portions and spread 1 portion over the meat.  Fold the
bottom edges of the phyllo layers over the filling, then fold over
the 2 sides, and roll up to make a firm neat parcel.  Place on the
baking sheet and repeat with the remaining phyllo and filling. Brush
the rolls with the remaining butter mixture and bake 25 to 30
minutes, or until deep golden brown. Drain on paper towels, sprinkle
liberally with the confectioners' sugar and cinnamon, and transfer to
a warm platter.

