Title: LAMB IN COOK POT
Categories: Chinese, Lamb, Ceideburg 2
Yield: 4 Servings
1 1/2 lb Lean, boneless lamb from
-leg or shoulder
2 oz Cellophane noodles
1/4 lb Fresh spinach
1/4 lb Celery cabbage
1/4 c  Soy sauce
1    Tb sesame-seed oil
1    Tb dry sherry
1/2    Tb brown sugar dissolved in
-1 tb boiling water
1 tb Peanut butter thinned with
-4 tb boiling water
1/8 ts Pepper
1/2    Tb mashed red bean curd
4 c  Chicken stock fresh or
-canned
1    Finely chopped scallions
1/2 ts Chopped garlic
1/2    Tb finely chopped peeled
-ginger root
1/8 c  Finely chopped parsley
I picked up a nice little Mongolian fire pot at a sale this weekend.
That makes two that I have now.  The other is a highly polished brass
museum piece that I never use for cooking because it's such a hassle
to clean up. This one is smaller and, with the exterior parts being
made of a matte finish aluminum, much easier to keep clean. This is
the kind you'd see in a Chinese or Japanese place and is just the
right size for two to four diners.  This one also has a neato
adjustable grate to control the heat.

I found this recipe stuffed inside the pot.  It was hand-typed. The
amounts called for in it would be too much for the little pot I found
it in, but is sounds quite good and is probably authentic. You
generally don't find Nam Yuey (red bean curd cheese) called for in
Westernized recipes. The pot is a neat touch, but this can be made
just as effectively in a fondue pot or in a sauce pan on a tabletop
burner++in anything that gets the broth hot enough to cook the
ingredients.

Freeze lamb for 2 or 3 hours for ease in slicing.  Cut against the
grain into paper thin slices.  Then cut slices into 2 x 2 inch
pieces. Cover cellophane noodles with 1 cup warm water and soak for
30 minutes. Drain and cut into 6 inch lengths.  Wash spinach leaves
under cold running water and pat dry with paper towel. Arrange on
platter along with noodles. Trim greens and root ends of the cabbage.
Separate into stalks and wash thoroughly.  Cut each stalk into small
pieces and drop into pot of boiling water.  Take out in 2 minutes,
dry and place with spinach and noodles. Combine soy sauce,
sesame-seed oil, sherry, brown sugar, peanut butter pepper and bean
curd.  Mix thoroughly, then take 1 tablespoon of the sauce and put
into each of 4 bowls. Reserve the rest and place in small bowl.

Preheat your broiler to its highest point.  Place 8 to 10 charcoal
briquettes side by side in baking pan lined with heavy aluminum foil
and place under broiler. Heat for 10 to 15 minutes until white ash
forms on briquettes.  Transfer to funnel of cook pot with tongs. Put
fireproof (asbestos) mat on table and place cook pot on it. Bring
chicken broth to a boil then pour it into the cook pot. Give each
person a plate of lamb and a soup bowl.  Drop the scallions, garlic,
ginger, and parsley into the boiling stock. Each person cooks own
lamb with fondue fork and then dips it into sauce in soup bowl. Extra
sauce is also placed on table.

When the lamb has been used, ladle a little of the remaining stock
into each bowl.  Add the noodles and vegetables in the remaining
stock in the cook pot, for a minute or two then ladle with broth into
bowls as another course.

Makes 4 servings.

Source++Hand typed recipe stuffed inside Mongolian fire pot.

Posted by Stephen Ceideberg; March 9 1993.

