Title: LAYERED VEGETABLE TERRINE
Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian, Breakfast
Yield: 8 Servings
MMMMM--------------------------TERRINE-------------------------------
2 c  Shelled peas
2 c  Chopped carrots
4 c  Cauliflower florets
3    Eggs; separated
6 tb Low-fat cream cheese
3 ts Lemon juice
1 tb Chopped fresh chives
2 tb Freshly grated nutmeg
Salt
Freshly ground white pepper
MMMMM---------------------------SALAD--------------------------------
3 lg Carrots; peeled
1 sm Handful of fresh chives
-- snipped
2 tb Hazelnut oil
1 ts Raspberry vinegar
Salt
Freshly ground black pepper
Preheat the oven to 375 F.  Lightly oil and line the bottom of a
2-pound loaf pan with wax paper or parchment.

Steam the peas, chopped carrots, and cauliflower separately for 10 to
15 minutes, or until each is cooked. Let cool.

Puree the peas with 1 egg yolk, and 1 teaspoon lemon juice. Repeat
with the carrots and then the cauliflower. Stir the chives into the
pea puree, the almonds into the carrot puree, the nutmeg into the
cauliflower puree.

Whisk the egg whites until stiff, then carefully fold one-third into
each puree until just combined.  Season well and spoon the pea mousse
into the prepared pan, carefully smoothing the surface. Top with the
carrot mousse and then the cauliflower mousse, smoothing the surface
of each. Cover with a piece of lightly oiled wax paper.

Place the loaf pan in a roasting pan and pour in boiling water to
come two thirds of the way up the sides of the pan. Transfer to the
oven and bake for 40 minutes. Remove the wax paper and cook for 10 to
15 minutes more, until the top feels firm to the touch. Remove from
the oven and let cool in the pan on a wire rack.

Using a potato peeler, peel the whole carrots into thin strips and
toss with the chives.  Blend the oil, vinegar, and salt and pepper
and mix with the carrot strips and chives.

Turn the terrine out of the pan and cut into slices. Serve with the
salad.

Serves 8-10

* Source: The Inspired Vegetarian, by Louise Pickford * Typed for you
by Karen Mintzias

