Title: LEEK TART
Categories: Savory, Pie
Yield: 1 9" tart
MMMMM----------------MARTHA STEWART'S 1996 HOLIDA---------------------
2 bn Leeks, white parts only
1    Sheet store-bought puff
Pastry
1 tb Olive oil
1 bn Scallions, chopped
1/2 ts Kosher salt
1/4 ts Black pepper
1 lb Gorgonzola or other blue
Cheese, crumbled
1. Heat oven to 350 F. Slice white part of each leek into 1/4"
rounds, and soak in large bowl of water to remove any sand.

2. On lightly floured work surface, roll puff pastry to 1/4"
thickness, about 12" in diameter. Press puff pastry into bottom and
sides of 9" round or rectangular tart pan (with removable bottom).
Run rolling pin across top to trim. (Scraps can be wrapped in plastic
and frozen for later use.) Carefully line pastry with aluminum foil,
and weight with beans, rice, or pastry weights. Bake for 10-15
minutes. When pastry begins to color around edges, remove weights and
foil, and continue to bake until pastry turns golden brown, 10-12
minutes. Place pan on wire rack, and let cool completely before
filling.

3. While pastry bakes, drain sliced leeks, and assemble filling. In
medium saute pan, warm olive oil over high heat. Saute leeks and
scallions until soft, about 6 minutes; season with salt and pepper.
Remove from heat.

4. Fill baked pastry shell with crumbled cheese, and top with sauteed
leeks and scallions. Bake in back of oven for 20 minutes, or until
cheese bubbles. Slice and serve immediately.

Captured from www.cbs.com on day of broadcast, 12/10/96.  Control
characters desperately edited out by Sylvia Steiger.

Nutritional information per serving:  xx calories, xx gm protein, xxx
mg cholesterol, xx gm carbohydrate, xxx mg sodium, x gm fiber, xx gm
fat (x gm sat, x gm mono, x gm poly), x mg iron, xx mg calcium, xx%
of calories from fat.

Brought to you by MMCONV and Sylvia Steiger, SylviaRN@compuserve.com
or 71511.2253@compuserve.com, creator of Frazzled Cook breadmachine
mixes, homepage: http://ourworld.compuserve.com/homepages/SylviaRN

