Title: LEMON-LATTICE WHITE CHOCOLATE CAKE
Categories: Desserts
Yield: 6 Servings
3/4 c  Fresh lemon juice
2 tb Cornstarch
1 c  Plus 2 tbsp sugar
3 lg Eggs
6 lg Egg yolks
1/2 c  Plus 1 tbsp unsalted butter,
-cut into small pieces
2 tb Grated lemon peel
FROSTING
2 1/4 c  Whipping cream
4 1/2 oz Imported white chocolate,
-chopped
3/4 ts Vanilla extract
CAKE
2 3/4 c  Sifted all purpose flour
1 ts Baking powder
3/4 ts Salt
4 oz Imported white chocolate,
-chopped
1 c  Whipping cream
1/2 c  Plus 2 tbsp milk
1 ts Vanilla extract
1/2 c  Unsalted butter, room
-temperature
2 c  Sugar
4 lg Eggs, separated
Derek Maddox (The Tally System - 912-328-6183 - (1:36)
FROM:

LEMON CURD

FOR LEMON CURD

Combine lemon juice and cornstarch in heavy medium saucepan, stirring
until cornstarch dissolves. Whisk in remaining ingredients. Cook over
medium heat until mixture is thick and smooth and just begins to
boil, stirring constantly, about 7 minutes. Transfer to medium bowl.
Place plastic wrap directly on face of curd to prevent skin from
forming. Refrigerate until chilled, about 6 hours. (Can be prepared 2
days ahead.)

FOR FROSTING

Combine 1/2 cup cream and chocolate in heavy small saucepan. Stir
over low heat until chocolate melts and mixture is smooth. Transfer
to large bowl. Whisk in remaining 1-3/4 cups cream and vanilla.
Refrigerate until well chilled, about 6 hours. (Can be prepared up to
1 day ahead.)

FOR CAKE

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350øF. Butter three
9-inch diameter cake pans with 1-1/2 inch high sides. Line bottoms
with waxed paper. Butter paper. Dust pans with flour; tap out excess.
Sift flour, baking powder and salt together into medium bowl. Repeat
sifting.

Stir chocolate and 1/2 cup cream in heavy medium saucepan over low
heat until chocolate melts and mixture is smooth. mix in remaining
1/2 cup cream, milk and vanilla.

Using electric mixer, beat butter and 1 cup sugar in large bowl until
fluffy. Beat in yolks. Stir dry ingredients into butter mixture
alternately with white chocolate mixture, beginning and ending with
dry ingredients. Using electric mixer fitted with clean dry beaters,
beat egg whites in medium bowl to soft peaks. Gradually beat in
remaining 1 cup sugar. Continue beating until stiff but not dry. Fold
whites into cake batter in 2 additions. Divide batter among prepared
cake pans. Bake until tester inserted in center comes out clean and
cakes are beginning to pull away from sides of pans, about 24
minutes. Cool cakes in pans on racks 10 minutes. Turn cakes out onto
racks, peel off waxed paper and cool completely. (Can be prepared 4
hours ahead. Cover and let stand at room temperature.)

Using electric mixer, beat frosting in another large bowl until stiff
peaks form.  Place 1 cake layer on platter. Spread 2/3 cup lemon curd
evenly atop cake layer. Spread 3/4 cup frosting atop curd. Top with
second cake layer. Spread cake with 2/3 cup curd, then with 3/4 cup
frosting. Top with third cake layer. Frost top and sides of entire
cake evenly with 3 cups frosting.

Place remaining lemon curd in pastry bag fitted with #2 star tip. Pipe
circle of curd around top of cake, 1/2 inch from edge. Pipe evenly
spaced diagonal lines inside circle, creating lattice pattern.
(Reserve remaining curd for another use.) Spoon remaining frosting
into clean pastry bag fitted with #2 star tip. Pipe ruffled border
around top and bottom edges of cake.  (Can be prepared up to 6 hours
ahead. Refrigerate.) Let stand 30 minutes at room temperature before
serving.

SOURCE: Bon App‚tit, February 1991 ** -=> this comes from the bottom
of the files of Shelley Rodgers <=-

