Title: LEMON CREAM MERINGUE PIE
Categories:
Yield: 1 Servings
Flaky Pie Dough for a 1crust
Pie -- about 10 ounces
Filling:
2 c  Milk
2/3 c  Sugar
3 md Lemons -- (3 to 4)
1/4 c  Cornstarch
4    Egg yolks
2 tb Unsalted butter -- softened
Meringue topping:
4    Egg whites
2/3 c  Sugar
1 pn Salt
To make the filling, combine milk and sugar in a nonreactive saucepan,
preferably enameled iron. Strip the zest from the lemons with a sharp
vegetable peeler, making sure you remove the yellow zest but none of
the white pith beneath. If you do remove some of the white pith,
scrape it off the strips of zest with the point of a paring knife and
discard it. Add the zest to the milk and sugar and bring to a simmer
over low heat. Remove from heat and allow to steep for 5 minutes;
remove the strips of zest with a slotted spoon or skimmer anddiscard
them. Squeeze lemons to make 1/2 cup strained juice. Place juice in a
mixing bowl and whisk in cornstarch, then yolks. Return milk and
sugar mixture to a boil over low heat and whisk about a third of the
boiling milk into the lemon juice mixture. Return remaining milk and
sugar mixture to a boil once more and whisk the lemon juice and yolk
mixture back into it, whisking constantly until the filling comes to
a boil and thickens. Allow to boil, whisking constantly, for about
30seconds. Remove from heat, whisk in butter and pour into a
nonreactive bowl. Press plastic wrap against the surface of the
filling and chill until it is approximately 75 degrees. (If you
prepare the filling in advance, let it come to room temperature
before proceeding.) Set a rack at the middle level of the oven and
preheat to 350 degrees. Roll out the dough to make bottom crust and
arrange in pan. Chill crust until firm. To bake the crust, pierce it
all over with the tines of a fork at 1/2inch intervals. Line it with
a disk of parchment or wax paper and fill with cherry stones or dried
beans. Bake about 20 minutes, until lightly colored. Remove paper and
beans and continue baking until the crust is a deep golden brown.
Cool crust on a rack. Spread the cooled filling evenly in the cooled
crust. Set a rack at the middle level of the oven and preheat to 400
degrees.To make the meringue bring a small pan of water to a boil.
Lower heat so that watersimmers. Combine egg whites, sugar and salt
in the bowl of the mixer or if you are using a hand whisk another
heatproof bowl. Place bowl over pan of simmering water and whisk
gently for about 2 minutes, until egg whites are hot (about 140
degrees) and sugar has dissolved. Whip meringue on medium speed until
it has cooled and is able to hold a shape, but it should not be dry.
Distribute spoonfuls of the meringue all over the top of the pie,
then use the back of a spoon or a small offset metal spatula to
spread the meringue evenly. It should cover the top of the pie and
touch the edges of the crust all around. Here and there, bring up the
surface of the meringue so that it is swirled. Place the pie on a
cookie sheet and bake for about 5 to 10 minutes, until the meringue
is colored evenly. Cool on a rack. Yield: One 9 inch pie

: BAKERS' DOZEN (NICK MALGIERI) SHOW #1A16
Recipe By

Date: Tue, 15 Oct 1996 20:20:24
~0500

