Title: LEMON MACAROON PIE
Categories: Pies, Pastries
Yield: 1 Servings
Crust-----
1 c  All-Purpose Flour
1/3 c  Cake Flour
1 tb Sugar
1/2 ts Salt
3/4    Stick Unsalted Butter,
Chilled -- cut into 4
Pieces
2 tb Vegetable Shortening (Solid)
Chilled -- cut into pieces
3 tb Ice Water -- (or more)
Filling-----
3 lg Eggs
2 lg Egg Yolks
1/4 ts Salt
1 1/4 c  Sugar
1 1/4 c  Shredded Sweetened Coconut
(about 5 ounces)
1 c  Whipping Cream -- chilled
1/4 c  Fresh Lemon Juice
2 tb Unsalted Butter -- melted
2 ts Grated Lemon Peel
2 1/4 ts Vanilla Extract
1/2 ts Almond Extract
2 ts Powdered Sugar
8    Thin Lemon Slices
FOR CRUST:  Mix flour, cake flour, 1 tablespoon sugar and salt in
processor. Add chilled butter and shortening and cut in, using on/off
turns, until mixture resembles coarse meal. Add 3 tablespoons ice
water and process until moist clumps form. If dough is too dry, add
more water by teaspoonfuls.

Gather dough into ball; flatten into disk.  Wrap in plastic and
refrigerate 1 hour.  (Can be prepared 2 days ahead. Keep
refrigerated. Let dough soften slightly at room temperature before
rolling out.  )

Position rack in bottom third of oven; preheat oven to 350F. Butter
9-inch- diameter glass pie dish.  Roll out dough on lightly floured
work surface to 12-inch round.  Transfer to prepared dish. Trim crust
edge, leaving 1/2-inch overhang. Decoratively crimp overheang. Freeze
15 minutes.

Line crust with foil.  Fill with dried beans or pie weights. Bake
until crust is set and rim is pale golden, about 20 minutes. Remove
foil and beans. Cool completely. Maintain oven temperature.

FOR FILLING:  Using electric mixer, beat eggs, egg yolks and salt in
large bowl to blend.  Add 1 and 1/4 cups sugar and beat until mixture
is thick and fluffy, about 1 minute. Beat in coconut, 1/4 cup chilled
whipping cream, lemon juice, melted butter, lemon peel, 1 and 1/2
teaspoons vanilla and almond extract.

Poor filling into crust.  Bake until filling is golden and set, about
40 minutes.  Cool on rack.  Refrigerate until well chilled, about 3
hours. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Cover and keep refrigerated. )

Beat remaining 3/4 cup cream, powdered sugar and remaining 3/4
teaspoon vanilla extract in large bowl until stiff peaks form. Pipe
whipped cream around border of pie. Garnish with lemon slices and
serve.

Serves 8.

: pamram@bev.  net (Pam Ramsey)
Recipe By

