Title: LENTIL & WALNUT SALAD
Categories: Main dish, Grains, Salads, Vegetables
Yield: 6 Servings
2 1/2 c  Dried lentils
3    Carrots
-- peeled and quartered
1 md Yellow onion; peeled
3    Cloves
1 1/2 qt Chicken stock or
1 1/2 qt Canned chicken broth
-- (I used this)
1    Bay leaf
2 ts Dried thyme
1/3 c  White wine vinegar
3    Garlic cloves; peeled
1/2 c  Walnut oil
Salt to taste*
Freshly ground black pepper
-- to taste
1 c  Thinly sliced scallions
-- incl. tops
1 c  Shelled walnut halves
MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
Chopped Italian parsley**
*I used 1/2 tsp. plus a pinch of salt, and several grinds of fresh
pepper.

**I used lots and included stems as well.

Note: One of the best lentil salads I've ever tasted. I serve it as a
main dish and so it ends up making somewhere between 2 and 4
servings, depending upon how hungry people are.

The authors write:  "A good lentil salad makes an excellent first
course, and this is one of the best we have ever tasted."

Rinse lentils and sort through them carefully, discarding any pebbles
that you find.

Transfer lentils to a large pot and add the carrots, onion stuck with
cloves, chicken stock, bay leaf and thyme. Set over moderate heat;
bring to a boil. Reduce to a simmer, skim any foam that may appear
(wasn't any when I made), cover and cook for about 25 minutes (lentil
cooking time varies widely), or until lentils are tender but still
hold their shape. Do not overcook.  (I cooked about 28 to 31 minutes.)

While lentils are cooking, combine vinegar, garlic and walnut oil in a
blender or in the bowl of a food processor fitted with a steel blade;
process until smooth and creamy.

When lentils are done, drain them, discard the carrots, onion, cloves
and bay leaf, and pour lentils into a mixing bowl. (I saved the
carrots to eat, and they were good.) Rewhisk dressing and pour it
over the still-hot lentils.  Toss gently, season generously with salt
and pepper and let salad cool to room temperature. Toss again, cover
and refrigerate overnight.

Just before serving, add scallions and walnuts.  Add an additional
tablespoon or two of vinegar or walnut oil if you like; toss gently.
Sprinkle heavily with chopped parsley and serve.

Note: I skipped extra vinegar and oil.  I also added nuts, onion and
parsley when preparing rest of salad.

Yield: 6 to 8 portions as a first course.

From _The Silver Palate Cookbook_ by Julee Rosso and Sheila Lukins
with Michael McLaughlin.  New York: Workman Publishing Company, Inc.,
1982. Pg. 160. ISBN 0-89480-204-6. Posted by Cathy Harned. Tried
02/19/91.

