Title: LIHAMUREKEPIIRAS (MEAT LOAF IN SOUR-CREAM PAS
Categories: Finnish, Meat
Yield: 6 Servings
MMMMM---------------------------PASTRY--------------------------------
2 1/4 c  Flour
1 ts Salt
12 tb Unsalted butter; chilled and
-cut into 1/4-inch bits
1    Egg
1/2 c  Sour cream
1 tb Butter; soft
MMMMM------------------------MEAT FILLING-----------------------------
4 tb Butter
1/4 lb Fresh mushrooms; finely
-chopped to yield 3/4 cup
Meat*
1/3 c  Onions; finely chopped
1/4 c  Parsley; finely chopped
1 c  Cheddar or swiss cheese;grat
1/2 c  Milk
1    Egg mixed w/2 tb milk
* Use either 3 pounds finely ground meat (beef, pork, ham, lamb or
veal or a combination of any of these), or 4 cups cooked ground or
finely chopped meat

Prepare the pastry: Sift the flour and salt together into a large
chilled bowl. Drop the 1/4-inch bits of butter into the bowl. Working
quickly, use your fingertips to rub the flour and butter together
until they have the appearance of flakes of coarse meal. In a
separate bowl, mix together the egg and sour cream and stir into this
the flour-butter mixture, working with your fingers until you can
gather the dough into a soft, pliable ball. Wrap in wax paper and
refrigerate 1 hour. Cut the chilled dough in half and roll out each
half to rectangles of 6 by 14 inches each, setting aside any scraps.

Butter the bottom of a jelly-roll pan with 1 tablespoon of soft
butter. Lift 1 sheet of the pastry over the rolling pin and unroll it
into the pan, or drape the pastry over the rolling pin, lift it up
and unfold it into the pan.

Prepare the meat filling:

Melt the 4 tablespoons of butter in a 10- to 12-inch skillet. When
the foam subsides, add the chopped mushrooms and cook them over
moderate heat, stirring frequently, for 6 to 8 minutes, or until they
are lightly colored. If you are using ground raw meat, add it to the
skillet and cook, stirring occasionally, for another 8 to 10 minutes,
or until the meat loses its read color and any accumulated liquid in
the pan cooks completely away. Scrape the meat mixture from the
skillet (or the mushrooms and already cooked meat) into a large
mixing bowl and stir in the chopped onions, parsley, cheese and milk.
Now gather this meat mixture into a ball and place it in the center
of the dough in the pan. With you hands, pat the meat into a narrow
loaf extending across the center of the dough from one end to the
other. Lift the second sheet of pastry over the pin and gently drape
it on top of the meat loaf; press the edges of the 2 sheets together.
Dip a pastry brush into the combined egg and milk mixture and moisten
the edges of the dough. Press down on the edges all around the loaf
with the back of a fork (the tines will seal the edges securely).
Prick the top of the loaf in several places with a fork to allow
steam to escape.

Preheat the oven to 375'F. Gather together into a ball all of the
excess scraps of dough and roll it out to a thin rectangle. With a
pastry wheel or small, sharp knife, cut this dough into long, narrow
strips. Brush the loaf with more of the egg and milk mixture and
crisscross the pastry strips over the top of the loaf in an
attractive pattern. Now brush the strips with the milk and egg
mixture and set the jelly-roll pan in the center of the oven. Bake
for 45 minutes, or until the loaf has turned a golden brown. Serve
thick slices of the hot meat loaf, accompanied by a bowl of cold sour
cream and a side dish of lingonberries.

Source: Time-Life Foods of the World: The Cooking of Scandinavia

