Title: LILY'S LUSCIOUS KREPLACH FOR CHICKEN SOUP
Categories: Mom's best, Jewish
Yield: 30 Servings
3/4 lb Boneless trimmed chuck steak
1 1/2 tb Peanut oil
1    Onion, chopped
1/4 lb Beef liver
2 lg Eggs
Salt & pepper to taste
2 c  Flour
4 qt New York Penicillin or other
-homemade chicken broth
1.  Cook the chuck in water to cover over medium heat until tender,
about 45 minutes. Drain the meat; set aside to cool to room temp.

2. Heat oil in a heavy skillet over medium heat. Add the onion and
liver and saute until the onions are soft and the liver is cooked
through, 3-4 minutes each side. Drain off any excess oil from the
liver and onions; set aside to cool to room temp.

3. With a meat grinder or in a food processor, grind the liver and the
chuck. Add 1 of the eggs, seasoned with salt and pepper, and process
until well mixed.

4. In a large mixing bowl, combine the flour and 1/4 tsp. salt and
make a well in the center. In a small bowl, whisk the remaining egg
with 1/4 cup of water. Pour the egg mixture into the well of the dry
ingredients and mix with a spoon until smooth. Turn out dough onto a
floured board and knead until soft and silky, about 6 minutes. If the
dough is too wet, dust with flour and knead it in. Divide the dough
into 2 even balls. Let the dough rest for 1 to 2 hours.

5. Roll the dough out, 1 ball at a time, 1/4 inch thick. Cut the
dough into 3 to 3 1/2 inch squares. Arranging each square of dough
with 1 corner pointing at you, take 1 tablespoon of the meat mix and
put it on the top half of the dough. Moisten 2 sides of the dough
with cool water and fold the bottom half up over the top, forming a
triangle. Fold the 2 opposite edges together, pinching the dough so
that the kreplach resembles a tortellini. Repeat with the remaining
dough squares and filling. (You can freeze the kreplach at this point
in freezer bags. They keep 2-3 months. Defrost in the refrigerator on
a rack, so the bottoms don't get soggy!)

6. Bring the broth to a boil in a large pot. Slide the kreplach into
the boiling chicken broth and cook them through, about 5 minutes.
Serve immediately.

Makes 25-30 kreplach or serves 8.

