Title: LINZER COOKIES
Categories: Cookies, Austrian
Yield: 48 Cookies
1 1/2 c  Butter; softened
1 c  Sugar
1    Egg
1    Egg yolk
1 ts Lemon rind; grated
1/2 ts Vanilla
3 1/3 c  Hazelnuts; very finely
-ground
3 1/3 c  Flour, cake; unsifted
-(see note)
1 ts Baking powder
1 1/4 ts Cinnamon, ground
12 oz Raspberry jam
Confectioners' sugar;
-for dusting
NOTE:  When unsifted flour is called for, fluff up the flour in the
sack or container with a fork before measuring.

Preheat oven to 350 F.

Beat butter and sugar in large bowl with electric mixer until light
and fluffly; beat in egg, egg yolk, lemon rind and vanilla; stir in
nuts.

Stir in flour, baking powder and cinnamon, blending well to make a
stiff dough; wrap in wax paper; chill several hours or overnight.

Cut dough in half.  (Refrigerate other half.)  Roll out dough between
sheets of wax paper to slightly less than a 1/4 inch thickness.
Remove top sheet of wax paper. With a 2-inch round cookie cutter cut
out as many circles from the dough as you can.  Carefully rmeove
circles from bottom sheet of wax paper; place cookies on ungreased
cookie sheets. Refreigerate scraps of dough for second rolling.

Repeat with other half of the dough, cutting out an equal number of
2- inch circles as from the first batch. Place on ungreased cookie
sheets, cut out center of each of the second batch of cookies.  Use
any scraps of dough for second rolling.  Roll scraps of dough out for
second rolling; cut out equal number of solid circles and circles
with open centers.

Bake for 12 minutes, or until edges of cookies are golden. Remove
cookie sheets from oven; let stand 1 minute. Remove cookies with wide
spatula to wire racks. Cool.

Heat raspberry jam in a small saucepan.  Spread each of the solid
cookies completely with a think layer of hot preserves. Top each with
a cut-out cookie; press gently together to make a "sandwich". Place
on wire rack. Sprinkle tops of cookies with confectioners' sugar.
Spoon dab of preserves in opening of each cookie; let preserves set
slightly.

[ Family Circle, 12/79]

