Title: LOBIO TKEMALI (RED BEANS W/TAMARIND & BALSA
Categories: Vegetables, Russian, Side dish, Ethnic
Yield: 6 Servings
1 1/3 c  Red Beans; Small, Soaked
-Overnight In Water To
-Cover, Drained
1 md Onion; Peeled
1 md Carrot; Peeled
3    Celery Rib
1    Celery Rib; 3-Inch Piece
Salt To Taste
5 lg Prunes; Dried, Pitted
1/4 c  Balsamic Vinegar
2 ts Tamarind Concentrate; OR
2 ts Unsweetened Plum Butter
1 ts Chinese Chili And Garlic
-Paste
1/3 c  Extra Virgin Olive Oil
3/4 ts Coriander Seeds; Crushed
1/4 ts Fenugreek; Ground
1/4 c  Cilantro Leaves; Finely
-Chopped And More For The
-Garnish
Red Onion Rings; For Garnish
NOTE:  If unable to find Tamarind Concentrate, (Available in Indian or
Middle Eastern stores), use plum butter (available in Health Food
stores), plus 2 Tb of Fresh Lemon Juice. These are a substitute for
the local Georgian Sour Plum paste that is unavailable here.

Combine the beans with the onion, carrot, and celery in a soup pot.
Add enough water to cover the beans by 3-inches and bring to a boil.
Add the salt, then reduce the heat to low, cover and cook the beans
until tender but not mushy, about 55 minutes or more, depending on
the beans. Meanwhile combine the prunes and the balsamic vinegar in a
saucepan and simmer for about 15 minutes.  Remove the prunes with a
slotted spoon and reserve the vinegar.  Finely chop the prunes. Add
the tamarind concentrate to the vinegar and let stand until
dissolved, about 10 minutes. Stir well and set aside.  Drain the
beans and discard the onion, carrot, and celery. Place the beans in a
serving dish and allow to cool. In a small bowl, whisk together the
diluted tamarind mixture, the chili paste, and the olive oil,
blending well.  Add the chopped prunes, coriander seeds, and
fenugreek, again blending well. Toss the beans with the tamarind
mixture. Taste and correct the seasoning and stir in the 1/4 cup of
cilantro leaves. Refrigerate, covered, for at least 2 hours before
serving. Serve, garnished with the additional cilantro and the onion
rings.

