Title: LOKUM ( TURKISH DELIGHT )
Categories: Desserts, Turkish
Yield: 1 Servings
4 c  Granulated sugar
4 1/2 c  Water
1 ts Lemon juice
1 c  Cornflour
1 ts Cream of tartar
1 tb Rose water (may be doubled)
Red food coloring
1/2 c  Chopped, toasted almonds
3/4 c  Confectioners' sugar
1/4 c  Cornflour
Cooking time: 1 1/2 hours.   Makes about 1 kg. (2 lb). Combine sugar,
1 1/2 cups water and lemon juice in a thick-based pan. Stir over low
heat until sugar dissolves, brushing sugar crystals off side of pan
with bristle brush dipped in cold water.
Bring to the boil and boil to soft ball stage 115 C (240 F) on a
candy thermometer.  Remove from heat.
In another thick-based pan blend cornflour, cream of tartar and 1
cup cold water until smooth.  Boil remaining 2 cups water and stir
into cornflour mixture, then place over low heat. Stir constantly
until mixture thickens and bubbles.  Use a balloon whisk if lumps
form.
Pour hot syrup gradually into cornflour mixture, stirring
constantly. Bring to the boil and gently for 1 1/4 hours. Stir
occasionally with a wooden spoon and cook until mixture is a pale
golden colour. Stirring is essential.
Stir in rose water to taste and a few drops of red food colouring
to tinge it pale pink.  Blend in nuts if used, and remove from heat.
Pour into an oiled 23 cm (9 inch) square cake tin and leave for 12
hours to set.
Combine confectioners' sugar and the 1/4 cup cornflour in a flat
dish.
Cut Turkish Delight into squares with an oiled knife and toss in
sugar mixture.  Store in a sealed container with remaining sugar
mixture sprinkled between layers. VARIATIONS: Creme de Menthe Lokum:
Replace rose water and red food colouring with 2 tablespoons Creme de
Menthe liqueur and a little green food colouring. Omit nuts. Orange
Lokum: Use 1-2 tablespoons orange flower water instead of rose water;
use orange food colouring. Vanilla Lokum:  Use 2 teaspoons vanilla
essence instead of rose water and colouring, stir in 1/2 cup toasted
chopped almonds or chopped walnuts. Do not blanch almonds.

