Title: LOW-SUGAR REFRIGERATOR STRAWBERRY JAM
Categories: Desserts, Jams
Yield: 6 Servings
4 c  Sliced strawberries
1/3 c  Sugar
2 tb Lemon juice
1    Envelope unflavored gelatin
1/2 c  Water
1.   In a medium saucepan, combine strawberries, sugar and lemon
juice. Heat 5 minutes, crushing the berries slightly. Bring to a
boil; boll rapidly, stirring constantly, 3 minutes.

2.   In a small bowl, sprinkle unflavored gelatin over cold water. Let
stand 1 minute.  Add to strawberry mixture and heat, stirring until
gelatin is completely dissolved, about 3 minutes.

3.   Let jam stand 5 minutes, skiing off foam with a spoon. Ladle into
jars.  Cover and cool slightly before storing in the refrigerator for
several weeks or in the freezer for longer storage.

If cooked jam does not set 24 hours after processing there are steps
that can be taken to solve the problem. The Department of Agriculture
Home and Garden Bulletin No.  56 states:

Soft jams made with regular pectin can sometimes be improved by
recooking according to the following directions. It is best to recook
only 4 to 6 cup of jelly or jam at one time.

To remake with powdered pectin: Measure the jam to be recooked. For
each quart of jelly or jam, measure 1/@ cup sugar, 1/4 cup water and
4 tsp powdered pectin. Mix the pectin and water and bring to boiling,
stirring constantly to prevent.scorching.  Add the jam and sugar.
Stir thoroughly. Bring to a full rolling boil over high heat,
stirring constantly. Boil mixture hard for 1/2 minute. Remove jam
from the heat; skim off foam. Ladle into hot sterilized jars.  Adjust
lids and screw bands and process in a boiling water bath for 5
minutes. Start counting time when water comes to a boil.

To remake with liquid pectin: Measure the jam to be recooked. For each
quart of jam, measure 3/4 cup sugar, 2 Tbsp lemon juice and 2 Tbsp
liquid pectin. Bring jam to boiling over high heat. Quickly add the
sugar, lemon juice and pectin and bring to a full rolling boil; stir
constantly. Boil mixture hard for 1 minute. Remove jam from the heat;
skim off foam. Ladle into hot sterilized jars.  Adjust lids and screw
bands and process in a boiling water bath for 5 minutes. Start
counting time when water comes to a boil.  If there are problems with
the Sure-Jell One Step (Fruit Pectin-Sugar Mix), call General Foods
toll- free number, 1-800-431-1001, from 6 am to 1 pm Seattle time.

