Title: LOW-FAT CHOCOLATE RASPBERRY CHEESECAKE
Categories: Desserts, Low-fat, Must-try, Posted-mm, Cheesecakes
Yield: 1 Servings
24    Plain chocolate wafer
Cookies (half of a 9 ounce
Box)
Nonfat cooking spray
2    (8 ounce) packages fat-free
Cream cheese
1 c  Sugar
1 c  Cocoa
1 ts Pure vanilla extract
3 tb Sugar-free seedless black
Raspberry preserves
1/2 c  Fat free egg substitutes
1    (16 ounce) container
Fat-free sour cream
1/4 ts Salt
For Fruit Topping:

1 (10 ounce) box sweetened frozen raspberries, thawed
2    Tablespoons cornstarch

In a food processor or blender, grind the plain chocolate wafers into
fine crumbs. Generously coat a 8.1/2 inch or 9 inch springform pan
with nonstick cooking spray. Pour the crumbs into the pan and tilt to
coat the bottom and the sides evenly. Set aside.

Preheat oven to 350^F. With an electric mixer, beat the fat-free cream
cheese until soft. Add the sugar, cocoa, vanilla extract and raspberry
preserves and continue beating until the ingredients are
incorporated. Add the egg substitutes, fat free sour cream and salt
and continue beating until no lumps remain and mixture is smooth and
liquid. You may have to beat the mixture for several minutes to reach
this consistency.

Pour the batter into the prepared pan. Place in oven and immediately
reduce oven temperature to 300 degrees. Bake for one hour, or until
center is set and firm to the touch. Turn off oven and allow
cheesecake to stay in cooling oven for one hour longer. Remove and
cool completely. Refrigerate overnight before serving.

To make the raspberry sauce, puree the raspberries in a food
processor or blender. Strain the pulp through a tea strainer,
pressing to remove all the seeds. Discard seeds. Place the cornstarch
in a saucepan and stir in the raspberry juice. Bring to a boil,
stirring constantly until thickened. Remove from heat immediately to
prevent lumps from forming. Cool and chill. Serve one tablespoon of
sauce on top of each slice of cheesecake.

Cake can also be frozen for two to three weeks before serving. To
serve, thaw for 2 days in the refrigerator, then allow to come to
room temperature before slicing.

Makes 10 servings

Per serving, including raspberry sauce:

Calories 254 Fat 3.7 grams Cholesterol 11.3 milligrams Sodium 405
milligrams

Source: Times-Picayune - January 5th 1995

From The Cookie Lady's Files - Genie

