Title: LOWFAT FETTUCCINE ALFREDO WITH ASPARAGUS
Categories: Asparagus, Cream chees, Healthwise, Main dishes, Pasta
2 TB red onion -- finely chopped
Yield: 4 Servings
2 1/2 c  aspargus with tight tips,
diag  sliced -- tough ends
removed
:
:
1 ts mashed and chopped BAKED
garlic* -- about 2 cloves
:
1/3 c  nonfat dry milk
1 1/2 c  skim milk -- or as needed
1 1/2 TB Wondra instant-blending
flour
:
2 TB Neufchatel cheese -- NOT
fat-free
:
2/3 c  grated parmesan cheese
1/2 c  arugula -- chopped

Heat a medium-size nonstick saute pan. Remove from the heat and spray
with vegetable oil spray. Add the onion and saute over Medium heat
unitl limp, about 5-10 minutes. Add the asparagus and the garlic,
cover the pan, and turn off the heat. (The steam from the onion will
cook the asparagus.) In a large skillet, combine the dry milk and
skim milk and whisk until blended. Add the flour, stir and cook over
Medium-High heat until thickened. In a small bowl, add 2 Tbsp. of the
hot sauce to the cream cheese and stir until smooth. Return this
mixture to the hot sauce. Add the Parmesan cheese and stir until
melted. Keep hot. If the mixture becomes too thick, thin it out with
small amounts of skim milk. The consistency should be like cream, not
gravy. Cook the fettuccine in boiling water according to the package
directions until it is al dente and drain. Add the hot pasta and the
garlic and the vegetables to the sauce in the skillet. Stir and cook
over Medium-Low heat until heated through. Serve garnished with the
chopped arugula.

~ - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

NOTES : MC formatting and posted by bobbi744@sojourn.com * To Bake
Garlic: Preheat the oven to 350=B0 Place a whole head of garlic in a
small baking pan. Drizzle one teaspoon of olive oil over the head of
garlic, add 1/4 cup water to the pan. Bake the garlic, loosely
covered with aluminum foil, for 45-60 minutes or until the cloves are
soft. The cloves will slip right out of their skins to be mashed,
chopped or served whole. The whole garlic cloves can be served as a
side dish with any roast meat, the mashed garlic cloves are also
delicious mixed with hot homemade mashed potatoes.

: Diane Mott Davidson, Killer Pancakes 9 ounces
Recipe By
fettuccine -- cholesterol-free

Date:
From:

