Title: M&M/MARS MILKY WAY
Categories: Candies, Seafood, Dressings
Yield: 1 Servings
2 c  Granulated sugar
1/2 c  Light corn syrup
1/2 c  Water
2 tb Water
1 pn Salt
2    Egg whites
35    Unwrapped Kraft caramels
1/4 c  Semisweet chocolate chips
2    Bags milk chocolate chips
(12-ounce bags)
1.  In a large saucepan over medium heat, combine the sugar, corn
syrup, 1/2 cup of the water, and the salt. Stir often until the
mixture begins to boil, then continue to cook,using a candy
thermometer to monitor the temperature. 2.  While the candy boils,
beat the egg whites until they are stiff and  form peaks. Don't use a
plastic bowl for this. 3.When the sugar mixture reaches 270 degrees
F, or the soft-crack stage, remove from the heat and pour the mixture
in thin streams into the egg whites, blending with a mixer seton low
speed. 4. Continue to mix for 20 minutes or so. The mixture will
thicken as you  mix, until it reaches the consistency of cookie
dough. At this point, add the semisweet chocolate chips. Be warned;
the mixture wil not get any thicker after the chocolate is added, so
be sure the candy is very thick and fluffy before adding the chips.
5. Whenthe chocolate chips are completely blended into the candy,
press the mixture into a greased 9x9-inch pan and refrigerate until
cool, about 30 minutes. 6.  Heat the caramels with the remaining 2
tablespoons water in a small saucepan until thoroughly melted.  Pour
the caramel over the refrigerated candy. 7.  While the candy cools,
melt the milk chocolate chips in the microwave  for 2 minutes on
medium power.  Stir halfway through the heating time.   Melt
completely, but be careful not to overheat. 8. When the caramel is
set, use a sharp knife to cut down the center of the pan. Then cut
the candy across into 7 segments, making a total of 14 bars. 9.
Resting a bar on a fork (and using your fingers if needed), dip each
bar into the chocolate to coat completely, then tap the fork against
the side of the bowl to knock off the excess chocolate. 10. Place
each bar on waxed paper and cool until firm at room temperature, 1 to
2 hours. Makes
14    candy bars.

:
Recipe By

