Title: MAGENTA MILLET PILAF
Categories: Digest, Jan.
Yield: 1 Servings
1 c  Millet, rinsed and drained
2 c  Boiling water
1/2 lb Beets, scrubbed, trimmed,
And cut into 1/2*inch dice
(no need
To peel.
1/2 ts Salt
1/8 ts Allspice
1 tb Fresh orange zest
2 oranges)
2 tb Minced fresh mint
6 tb Fresh orange juice
Salt, to taste
Heat nonstick or cast iron skillet over high heat. Toast millet till
it gives off a nice popcorn smell and starts to dance about the pan.
Place millet in pressure cooker pot when done.

Heat flame tamer and place pressure cooker on top. Add boiling water,
beets, salt, and allspice to pressure cooker. Lock lid and bring up
to high pressure.  When high pressure is reached, turn down heat to
maintain pressure and hold for 10 minutes (set a timer).

Meanwhile, zest one of the oranges.  You should get a yield of 1 T,
if not, use the other orange as well. (If you don't have a zester,
use a sharp potato peeler to delicately remove just the orange peel,
leaving the bitter white pith behind.) Mince the orange zest.  Set
aside. Squish the oranges without breaking them by rolling them
between your hands and the counter. This will make juicing go easier.
Cut in half and juice. You should get 6 T or so.  Since oranges vary
in sweetness, you will want to add the orange juice by taste.

Mince the mint and set aside.

After the 10 minutes are up on the pressure cooker, turn off heat and
move it to a cold burner.  Let sit for 10 minutes and then take
cooker to sink. Run under cold water to release any residual pressure
and remove lid.

Add mint and zest.  Add orange juice to taste, and salt if needed.
Serve.

This dish looked stunning in my black octagonal serving dish. A
splash of lemon or lime might also be tasty.

Posted by artemis@netcom.com (Michelle Dick) to the Fatfree Digest
[Volume 14 Issue 24] Jan. 24, 1995.
:This is from Lorna Sass's _Great Vegetarian Cooking Under Pressure_:

Individual recipes copyrighted by originator. FATFREE Recipe
collections copyrighted by Michelle Dick 1995. Formatted by Sue Smith,
SueSmith9@aol.com using MMCONV. Archived through kindness of Karen
Mintzias, km@salata.com.

1.80รก

