Title: MAKING THE LOAF
Categories: Bread, Information, Mc
Directions only
Yield: 1 Servings  :

Making the Loaf

Kneading

Kneading develops the gluten in the flour to form a framework for
holding the gases given off by the yeast. The KitchenAid mixer not
only effortlessly tackles kneading but provides the constant rhythm
necessary for best results. After all the flour has been added,
continue to knead for approximately 2 minutes until the dough is
smooth and satiny, not sticky. Shape the dough into a ball and place
in an oiled bowl. Brush the top of the dough with additional oil to
prevent a crust from forming while rising. Cover the bowl with a
towel or plastic wrap and let rise in a warm (70 degrees F to 85
degrees F) place, free from drafts.

Rising

Let the dough rise until double in size. To test the dough, depress
two fingers into the center and if the dent stays, it has doubled.
Punch the dough down by pushing your fist into the center of the
dough and pulling the edges over to the center. Turn the dough over.
Letting the dough rise a second time before shaping will yield a
finer textured loaf.

Shaping

There are many ways to shape a loaf. Specialty breads, such as braids
or rolls, will generally include directions in the recipes. Two
simple methods for shaping standard loaves are as follows:

Form the dough into an oval the size of the pan, stretching and
turning ends of the dough under and pinching into a seam. Place in
prepared pan, seam side down. Roll the dough into a rectangle
slightly longer than the size of the pan. Beginning with the shorter
side, roll dough towards you. Seal long seam as well as ends with
hands. Fold sealed ends under and place loaf, seam side down, into
prepared pan.

Baking

Place loaves in the center of the oven, leaving space for the heat to
surround the pans. To check for doneness, remove one loaf from its
pan and tap the bottom. If it sounds hollow it is done. Turn loaves
onto racks immediately after baking to prevent sogginess.

Bread Making Tips

1.Always store flour in an airtight container in a cool, dry place.
For long-term storage, store flour and yeast in refrigerator or
freezer. 2.To measure flour, spoon it lightly into a dry measuring
cup and level with a spatula. 3.Use the Grain Mill to grind whole
wheat berries and other grains into flour. One cup of grain yields
approximately 1-1/4 cups of flour, except for rolled oats which
yields 7/8 cup of flour. 4.Always check liquid temperature with an
accurate thermometer.

5.Allow bread to rise in a warm, draft-free place. Place bowl of
dough on rack over pan of warm water. Or, set oven on lowest setting
for 10 minutes. Turn oven off and place bowl of dough in oven. 6.For
soft crusts and extra shine, brush finished bread with melted butter
and cool uncovered. 7.For crispier crusts, brush loaves with a
mixture of one egg white and one tablespoon of cold water before
baking. 8.Inverting finished bread onto racks immediately from oven
prevents a soggy loaf. 9.Some large recipes and soft doughs may climb
over the collar of the dough hook. This indicates the dough needs
more flour. The sooner all the flour is added, the less likely the
dough is to climb the hook. Try starting with all but the last cup of
flour in the initial mixing process. Then add the remaining flour as
quickly as possible, never exceeding the total amount given in the
recipe. 10.Dough made with whole grain flour may not form a ball on
the dough hook during kneading. However, as long as there is contact
between the hook and the dough, kneading will be accomplished.
11.Allow bread to cool completely before slicing. 12.Baked yeast
breads may be stored in the freezer for up to six months. Wrap
securely in plastic wrap or aluminum foil. To thaw, let stand at room
temperature for 3 hours.

: Dinner Co-op
Recipe By

From: Johnnye Tamaru

