Title: MANA'S SPINACH RICOTTA ROLL
Categories: Entrees, Italian, Vegetables
Yield: 4 Servings
12 oz Spinach, cooked
-(fresh or frozen)
2 c  Ricotta cheese
1 tb Fresh parsley, chopped
3    Egg whites
1 c  Flour, all-purpose
1 1/3 c  Water
1/2 c  Parmesan cheese,
-finely grated
2 c  Marinara sauce
Olive oil
Preheat oven to 325 degrees F.  Cook or thaw spinach and squeeze dry.
Season with a little salt and pepper; set aside.

Mix ricotta cheese with grated Parmesan cheese and chopped parsley;
set aside.

MAKE THE CREPE BATTER:  Mix together egg whites, flour and water,
then beat with a wire whisk to get rid of lumps.

COOK THE CREPES:  Lightly coat a crepe pan with olive oil and heat to
medium. Ladle 2 1/2 T crepe batter into heated pan. The crepe batter
should lightly cover the bottom of the pan in a thin layer. Tilt pan
to cover evenly. When edges of crepe turn lacy and brown and crepe is
cooked through,remove crepe and stack on a plate. Continue until all
the batter is used.

When the crepes are cooked, assemble the rolls:  spoon 2 rounded T of
ricotta cheese mixture and 1 T spinach mixture on each crepe. Fold or
roll each crepe to seal in mixture.

MAKE AND COOK THE CASSEROLE:  Place rolled crepes in a greased
rectangular casserole dish.  When the pan is full, spoon marinara
sauce over crepes. Bake at 325 degrees F. for 15 to 20 minutes. Serve
with grated Parmesan cheese.

If you don't have a crepe pan, you can use a small (6-inch) frying
pan. You can make your own marinara sauce, or use a prepared marinara
or spaghetti sauce.

NOTES:

*  An Italian vegetable casserole with spinach and cheese -- Mana's
spinach ricotta roll is a dish my roommate makes. She got the recipe
from her Italian mother. I hope you like it as much as I do.

: Difficulty:  moderate.
: Time:  1 hour preparation, 20 minutes baking.
: Precision:  approximate measurement OK.

: Kathy Blain
: Organization:  California State University, Chico, California, USA
: kgb@csuchico.EDU lll-crg!csuchico!kgb

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

