Title: MANGO ROAST PORK LOIN
Categories: Meat, Mango, Main dishes
Yield: 8 Servings
4 tb Butter
1 tb Curry powder
4 c  Fresh pineapple - diced
1 c  Chicken broth
1    Pork loin-boneless(3 1/2 lb)
2/3 c  Mango chutney
Salt & Pepper (to taste)
Curry-Pineapple Rice (Opt.)
Mango garnish: 2 fresh mangoes peeled and diced (or sliced) and
tossed with 1 Tbl. minced fresh ginger and 1 Tbl. minced cilantro.
Optional: additional mango chutney. Preheat oven to 350 degrees.
Place butter and curry powder in skillet.  Cook over medium heat for
3 minutes, stirring frequently. Add pineapple and stir to coat.  Add
pineapple juice and broth and bring to a boil on high heat.  Boil 8
minutes.
Meanwhile, trim pork of excess fat, leaving a thin layer on top
of the meat.  Place, fat-side up, in a shallow roasting pan. Using a
slotted spoon, scoop up pineapple and place around the meat. Pour
one-third cup of juice-broth mixture over top of meat. Place in the
middle of a preheated 350-degree oven. Roast for 1 hour, uncovered.
Meanwhile, reduce juice-broth mixture by boiling on high heat for
about 8 to 10 minutes.  You want to reduce it by half in volume. As
the pork roasts, if pan look dry, spoon a little of this reduced
juice-broth mixture over the roast to baste it.  If preparing rice,
reserve 1 cup of juice-broth mixture; set aside.
Remove roast from oven and season with a little salt and pepper.
Spread chutney over the top of the roast, covering sides and ends.
Return to oven and roast, uncovered, an additional 30 minutes (roast
should have an internal temperature of 150 to 160 degrees). Add more
juice-broth mixture to pan if it looks dry.
Prepare Curry-Pineapple Rice, if desired.
Allow to rest for 10 minutes before slicing.
If using, place rice on serving platter.  Arrange pork slices,
overlapping each slice to form a pattern. Place mango garnish around
the pork.  Serve immediately. Curry-Pineapple Rice:
Place 1 cup of the juice-broth mixture and 3 cups of water in a
large saucepan.  Add a pinch of salt. Bring to a boil. Add 2 cups of
long grain rice, cover and reduce heat to low. Simmer, covered, for
18 minutes. If any liquid remains cook a few more minutes. Remove lid
and fluff with a fork. If desired, stir in some of the pineapple
wedges that cooked with the pork.

