Title: CHICKEN CURRY WITH BAMBOO SHOOTS
Categories: Side dish
Yield: 4 Servings
4 fl Coconut cream
2 tb Vegetable oil
1    Garlic clove finely chopped
1 tb Red curry paste
2 tb Fish sauce
1 ts Sugar
6 oz Boneless chicken breasts
4 fl Chicken stock
2    Kaffir lime leaves,roughly
-chopped
4 oz Bamboo shoots, cut into
-slivers
20    Fresh holy basil leaves
METHOD: Gently heat the coconut cream in a small pan but do not let it
boil. In a wok or frying pan heat the oil and fry the garlic until
golden brown. Add the curry paste and stir well. Pour in the warmed
coconut cream and stir until it begins to reduce and thicken.

Add the fish sauce and sugar and stir. Add the chicken and cook,
stirring constantly, until the meat is opaque. Add the stock, stir
and cook for one to two min- utes or until the chicken is cooked
through.

Stir in the lime leaves, then add the bamboo shoots and basil leaves.
Stir, cook gently for a final minute and turn into a serving dish.

(Serves 4 as part of a meal) Source: Hugo Arnold, EVENING STANDARD
Friday 21st October 1994

Hugo Arnold's Commentary Follows.

THAI food seems to have erupted into British life over the past few
years, particularly in pubs, where many have ditched sausages and
chips for Nam Tok, Tom Yam Gung or Grat Doo Moo Nueng Dow Jeow - the
latter being Thai spare ribs. Alongside this explosion runs the
increasing availability of the ingredients necessary to produce these
dishes - lemon grass, kaffir lime, galangal and a few cookery books
to explain the process.

Vatcharin Bhumichitr wants us not only to cook Thai food, but to
understand it. His latest book, Vatch's Thai Cookbook (Pavilion
17.99), groups recipes and writings under different ingredient
headings. This approach, he hopes, will enable readers to appreciate
the subtleties and origins of this intrinsically delicate cuisine. Mr
Bhumichitr owns Chiang Mai, a Thai restaurant in Soho that serves up
the sort of food I remember eating in Bangkok - light, delicate,
spicy and well balanced an aspect frequently misunderstood, but well
explained in this title. His book is full of similar recipes. Most
are remarkably quick to cook, and ideal for that Thursday evening
when you don't really have time to cook a stew or casserole. Today's
recipe is from the bamboo shoots section of the book.

