Title: CHICKEN BASQUE STYLE
Categories: Chicken, Basque
Yield: 1 Servings
2 md Green bell peppers
2 md Red bell peppers
2 lg Onions; peeled, finely
Chopped
5 cl Garlic; peeled and smashed
2 oz Rendered chicken fat
2 oz Pork belly; skin removed or
Pancetta, cut into 1/2"
Cubes
4 sm Hot peppers; or
6    Jalapenos
2 1/4 lb Ripe tomatoes; cored and cut
Into 1" chunks
5 lb Chicken, cut into serving
Pieces with back, neck and
Wing tips reserved for
Stock
;s&p
2    Bay leaves
1    Fresh thyme sprig
Cut the bell peppers in half lengthwise and remove the seeds. Grill or
broil, skin side toward the flame (or heating element), until the
skin is bubbly (about 15 minutes in an electric oven).

While the peppers are broiling, prepare the onion and garlic. Place
1/3 of the fat in a large frying pan and melt it over medium heat.
Add the pork belly and cook for a few minutes to release some of the
fat. Add the onion and 3 cloves of the garlic. Cook, stirring
occasionally, until translucent, about 10 minu.

Remove the peppers from the oven or grill and place in a paper bag
for a few minutes. When the peppers have cooled slightly, remove the
skin. Coarsely chop the peppers (to make 2.5 c)

Add the bell peppers and the hot peppers to the onions and garlic.
Increase the heat and allow the mixture to color slightly. Add the
tomatoes. Continue cooking over high heat for about 5 min, or until
the tomatoes have collapsed. Reduce the heat to medium-low and cook,
partially covered and stirring occasionally, for 40 min.

Twenty minutes before the vegetables are done, season the chicken
with salt and pepper. Place the remaining fat in a large,
straight-sided frying pan, a wide-mouthed stock pot or braiser. Melt
the fat over medium-high heat. Add the chicken pieces, two garlic,
bay leaves and thyme. Brown the chicken on all sides, working in two
batches if necessary, so there is no trace of red.

Return all of the chicken to the pot and add the vegetable mixture.
Bring to a boil. Lower the heat and cook at a low simmer for 30 min.

