Title: CHICKEN ROTI
Categories: Chicken
Yield: 6 Servings
4 c  Flour
2 tb Baking powder
1 pn Salt
2 ts Oil
1 1/2 c  ;Water, lukewarm
2 1/2 lb Chicken; skinned, boned &
-cut into 1-1/2 inch cubes
1 ts Garlic; chopped
1    Scallion; finely chopped
1/2 ts Scotch Bonnet pepper;
-finely chopped
1 ts Salt
3 tb Curry powder
1 tb Jira; ground
1/2 tb Pepper, black
2 tb Oil; for each poori
Scallions; garnish
Scotch Bonnet pepper; finely
-chopped (garnish)
1/2 c  ;Water, or more
To prepare the pooris, combine the flour, baking powder, and salt in a
mixing bowl.  Pour the oil into the water, then add this mixture to
the flour mixture to form a dough. Mix well. Knead for about 5
minutes until dough is very smooth.  Divide into 6 balls of dough.
Set aside for about 2 hours, covered with a damp cloth. Using a
rolling pin, roll each ball into a thin flattened circle, a poori,
about 9 inches in diameter. Set aside, covered.

To prepare the filling, combine the chicken and all the other
ingredi- ents except the oil and the garnish. Mix well and marinate
for 2 hours or longer. When done marinating, add 2 tablespoons oil to
a saucepan and heat to medium.  Add the chicken mixture and cook,
stirring con- stantly for about 5 minutes. Add the water then cook on
low for about 5 minutes, or until chicken is tender.  Keep warm.

Add 2 tablespoons of oil to a skillet or grill.  Place the rolled
pooris on the skillet.  Fry each side for about 2 minutes, or until
lightly browned. Brush each side with margarine or oil. Wrap in clean
towel to keep warm until ready to serve.

When ready to serve, fold about 2 tablespoons of chicken mixture into
each round and serve.  Garnish with scallions and Scotch Bonnet
pepper.

NOTES:  This chicken roti is a mixture of chicken and seasonings that
is
put into a piece of bread called a poori, and then eaten like
:
a
sandwich.  The fillings vary from island to island in the
Caribbean, depending on available ingredients and preferred
seasonings.  This recipe came from Chef Joseph Kissoonlal. He
is of East Indian descent, and is the master behind the fine
foods served at Granny B's Kitchen in Miami, a restaurant that
features slow-cooked, fast food!, Caribbean-style.
:
:
:
:
:
:

