Title: CHICKEN STOCK OR BROTH BY JAMES BEARD~ CHEF
Categories: Poultry, Vegetables, Soups
Yield: 2 Quarts
2 lb Chicken gizzards
2 lb Chicken necks and backs
1 md Onion; peeled; stuck with:
3 ea Cloves (stuck in onion)
1 ea Leek; well washed; trimmed
1 ea Carrot; scraped
2 ea Garlic cloves; peeled
1 ea Bay leaf
1 ea Parsley sprig
1 ts Thyme; dried
6 ea Peppercorns
3 qt Water
1 tb Salt
Put the chicken pieces, vegetables, garlic, herbs, peppercorns, and
water in a deep 8 quart pot or a stockpot. Bring to a boil. After 5
minutes, skim off the scum that forms on the surface with a wire
skimmer or a large spoon. Continue to boil rapidly for 15 minutes,
skimming, then reduce the heat; cover the pot and simmer for 2 to
2-1/2 hours. Season with salt to taste -- about 1 tablespoon. Strain
the broth through a sieve lined with several thicknesses of
cheesecloth into a large bowl and cool thoroughly in the
refrigerator. Save the gizzards (they are good eating) and discard
the other chicken parts and the vegetables. When the stock is cold,
remove the layer of fat that has formed on the surface. You will have
about 2-1/2 quarts of stock. It is a great aid and comfort to always
have on hand good home-made beef, chicken or veal stock, but you have
to be realistic. You must gauge your stock-making by the space you
have to keep it in. Two or three days is about as long as you should
keep stock in the refrigerator; if you keep it longer you should
remove it and boil it up again before using. If you want to keep it
for much longer periods of time, freeze it. You can safely keep stock
frozen for up to three months. * Double Chicken Broth * Put the cold,
fat-free, 2-1/2 quarts of previously make chicken stock into an 8
quart pan. Add a whole stewing fowl or roasting chicken weighing 4 to
5 pounds. Bring slowly to a boil. Again, skim off any scum that forms
on the surface; reduce the heat; cover and simmer gently until the
chicken is very tender, about 1 hour for a young chicken, or 2 to
2-1/2 hours for a fowl. Remove the chicken and either serve it as
poached chicken or remove the skin, take the meat from the bones and
use it for chicken dishes ~- a chicken salad, hash, chicken pie, or
creamed chicken. Strain the broth through several thicknesses of
cheesecloth into a bowl; let cool, then skim off the fat. You now
have two quarts of beautifully rich, strong broth to use for cooking.
Should you want to reduce it even more and clarify it for consomme',
... see the recipe: Chicken Consomme' by James Beard. Note: Chicken
consomme' must be absolutely fat-free and clear so it's very
important that in the above directions you skim off all the scum that
forms on the surface in the chicken stock broth and double chicken
broth and strain it through several thicknesses of cheesecloth, and
remove all the fat after the broth has cooled.

