Title: CHICKEN BREASTS (OR PRESSED TOFU) WITH SWEET
Categories: Poultry
Yield: 3 Servings
1/4 c  Chicken or veggie broth; hom
1 lg Shallot; thinly sliced
1    Garlic clove; minced *see no
1 tb Tomato paste
2 tb Honey
1 tb Dijon mustard
Pinch dried tarragon; or thy
1 tb Fresh orange juice
2 tb Balsamic vinegar
Freshly ground pepper; to ta
2    Whole chicken breasts, split
1 lb Pressed tofu; ** see note
Recipe by: Larissa Vigue <VIGUE@INET.CHAMPLAIN.EDU> * use more, use
more!! ~ strictly my opinion. ** method for pressing follows

Heat the broiler, or light your grill so you'll be able to cook over
very hot coals.

In a small saucepan bring the broth to a gentle simmer over medium
heat. Add the shallot and garlic, turn down the heat to medium-low,
and simmer, uncovered, stirring often, until the vegetables soften,
about 7 minutes.

Add the tomato paste, honey, mustard, tarragon or thyme, orange juice,
vinegar, and pepper, stirring until the mixture thickens into a dense
paste, about 4 minutes.

Remove the glaze from the heat and let it cool slightly, about 5
minutes.

Using a pastry brush, slather the glaze on the chicken breasts, if
using, lifting the skin to brush it underneath rather than on top.
Place the chicken under the broiler skin side up or on the grill skin
side down. If grilling, cover it with the grill lid or foil. Turn the
breasts over after 4 to 6 minutes if broiling, and 8 minutes if
grilling, and cook until clear juice runs from the breast when you
pierce it with a knife, about 4 to 8 minutes more.

If using tofu, coat well with glaze and grill or broil until heated
through about 4 to 6 minutes on each side.

How to Press Tofu (from p. 145)

If you can't find pressed tofu, it's easy to make your own.

1)  Put several layers of absorbent paper towel inside a baking pan
or wide bowl.

2)  Put a 1 pound block of firm or extra-firm tofu on top and put
another few layers of paper towel over it.

3)  Weigh it down with something very heavy, such as a cast-iron pot
or a pile of ceramic plates. Refrigerate overnight.

Per serving with chicken breasts: calories-187.7grams; fat-3.4grams;
protein-28.8grams; carbohydrates-9.4grams; cholesterol-73milligrams;
sodium-184 milligrams (before salting)

With tofu:  cal-210.5; fat-9.2g; protein-15.9g; carb-14.4g; chol. 0;
sodium-136.3mg (before salting); % RDA- 67.2 iron, 23.5 calcium.

