Title: CHICKEN CURRY NORTH INDIAN STYLE
Categories: Indian, Poultry
Yield: 1 Servings
1 lb Chicken - drumsticks, thighs
Breast piece
1 sm Carton Plain Yogurt
2 md Onions very finely chopped
4 tb Vegetable oil
2    Cloves
1/2 ts Mustard Powder
2    Pods Cardamom
1/2 ts Cumin powder
1 ts Garam Masala
1 ts Chilli Powder
1/2    Inch Ginger
4    Pods Garlic
1/3 ts Coriander Seeds
To taste Salt
1/2 ts Freshly ground pepper
1. Remove fat from the chicken.  Salt and pepper the chicken.
Sprinkle with chili powder.  Add yogurt and mix  well  till  the
chicken is covered liberally  with  yogurt.   Use your hands. Set
aside for 1 hour before cooking.  If kept in the refrigerator, set
aside for at least 4 hours. 2. Heat  oil  in a large heavy pan.  When
oil is hot, add mustard seeds if using mustard seeds.  Add cloves,
cardamom, and coriander seeds. Fry for 30 seconds. 3. Add the onion
and fry for two minutes till onion beings to turn.  Lower heat to
medium. 4. Add the ginger garlic paste and fry for 4 - 6 minutes. 5.
Add mustard powder if using powder, add garam masala, add cumin
powder. 6. Brush excess yogurt off the chicken and put in a large
pot.  Add ingredients from frying pan.  Cook uncovered over high heat
for 4 minutes. 7. Reduce heat to low and cover. Cook for 25 minutes
or till the chicken is tender, stirring every 5 minutes. 8. Important
note: When chicken is cooked with a cover on the pot, it releases
water that becomes a part  of  the sauce.  If after 10 minutes, there
isn't enough sauce in the pot,  add  1/4  cup water. Conversely if
there is too much liquid in the pot, cook uncovered till the liquid
evaporates.

Variations There are several variations to the above recipe:

1. Leave out the yogurt. Add 1/4 cup of water just before turning the
heat to low and covering the pot. 2. Boil two potatoes for 10 minutes
before slicing them thinly. Add potatoes into the pot when you start
cooking the chicken. 3. This variation  is  usually called "Malai
Chicken" or literally "creamy" chicken. Leave out the yogurt. When
the chicken is 3/4 done, add one small can of tomato paste.   Just
before removing a small carton of whipping cream and cook for a few
minutes.

: Somesh Rao
Recipe By

