Title: CHICKEN PATTIES (LOW-CALORIE)
Categories: Chicken, Leftovers
Yield: 8 Servings
3/4 c  Water
1/4 ts Salt
8 oz All-purpose potatoes --
Pared and cut in
Chunks*
2    Cloves garlic -- peeled
1/2 c  Plus 2 tablespoons grated
Parmesan cheese
1 1/2 c  Finely diced cooked chicken
(about 8
Ounces)
1    Egg -- separated
2 tb Chopped parsley
2 ts Lemon juice
3 tb Fine dry bread crumbs
3 tb Olive oil --OR: vegetable
Oil
Lemon wedges (optional)
1.  Bring water and 1/8 teaspoon salt to boiling in small saucepan.
Add potato and garlic; boil gently, uncovered, for 15 to 20 minutes
or until potato is tender. Mash potato and garlic with water until
creamy. Stir in 1/2 cup Parmesan. Transfer to large bowl. Let stand
until potatoes come to room temperature. 2. Stir in chicken, egg
yolk, parsley and lemon juice. Beat egg white in small bowl until
stiff but not dry peaks form. Fold into chicken mixture. Form into 8
elongated patties. 3. Combine bread crumbs and remaining 2
tablespoons Parmesan cheese in shallow pie plate or on sheet of waxed
paper. Dredge patties in crumb mixture; place on plate. Refrigerate
patties, covered, for at least 1 hour or for up to 3 hours before
sauteing. 4.  Heat oil in large skillet over moderate heat. When oil
is very hot, add patties; cook until golden brown and crisp, about 3
minutes per side. Serve with lemon wedges, if you wish.

Makes 8 patties.

Notes: One cup of leftover mashed potatoes can be substituted for the
cooked all-purpose potatoes in Step 1. Add just enough hot water,
about 1/4 cup, to loosen potatoes and make them creamy. Continue with
Step 1 in recipe.

Can be halved or doubled.

Nutrient Value Per Serving 328 calories, 25 g protein,
20 g  fat, 12 g carbohydrate,
471 mg sodium, 114 mg cholesterol.

Chicken Pattie Make-Ahead TIP: The patties can be prepared up to 3
hours ahead through Step 3 and refrigerated, covered.

Source:  The Family Circle Cookbook, New Tastes for New Times Typos by
Brenda Adams <adamsfmle@aol.com> Posted to mc-recipe 8/15/96

:
Recipe By

