Title: CHICKEN TORTELLINI IN A SWEET ONION-LAMBRUSCO
Categories: New, Text, Import
Red Onion Marmalade:
Yield: 4 Servings  :
2 md red onions, -- chopped into
1/4    -inch dice
2 c  Lambrusco wine, or other
light bodied fruity red
wine
:
:
1 c  orange juice
2 TB sugar
Filling:
:
2 TB butter
7 oz boneless, skinless breast of
chicken
:
1/2 c  dry white wine
3 oz Prosciutto, -- cold from
refrigerator
:
5 oz Mortadella, -- cold from
refrigerator
:
3/4 c  grated Parmigiano-Reggiano
plus 1/2 cup
:
1/2 ts freshly grated nutmeg
1/4 c  milk
1    egg
Pasta:
:
1    recipe basic pasta
2 c  basic chicken broth

To make marmalade:

Place chopped red onions, Lambrusco, orange juice and sugar in a
saucepan and place over medium high heat. Bring to a boil, lower heat
to medium and reduce until thick like marmalade, about 30 minutes.
Remove from heat and allow to cool.

To make filling:

In a 12- to 14-inch saut_ pan, melt butter over medium heat until just
starting to foam. Slice raw chicken very thinly across the grain and
place in pan with butter. Cook over medium heat, stirring constantly,
until very lightly browned. Add wine, cover and cook for 5 minutes.
Remove cover and cook until liquid is gone, 2 to 3 more minutes.
Remove from heat and allow to cool. Cut prosciutto and mortadella
into 1/4-inch dice and place in food processor. Add cooled contents
of saut_ pan and pulse until just ground, like meat, not like a
mousse. Pour into a large mixing bowl and add cheese, nutmeg, milk
and egg, folding carefully. Check for seasoning with salt only and
refrigerate.

Fresh Egg Pasta: 4 extra large eggs 3 1/2 cups unbleached all-purpose
flour plus 1/2 cup
1/2    teaspoon olive oil

Make a mound of the flour in the center of a large wooden cutting
board. Make a well in the middle of the flour and add the eggs, oil
and any other flavoring you choose. Using a fork, beat together the
eggs, oil and flavorings and begin to incorporate the flour starting
with the inner rim of the well. As you expand the well, keep pushing
the flour up to retain the well shape. Do not worry that this initial
phase looks messy. The dough will come together when 1/2 of the flour
is incorporated.

Start kneading the dough with both hands, using the palms of your
hands primarily. Once you have a cohesive mass, remove the dough from
the board and scrape up any left over crusty bits. Lightly flour the
board and continue kneading for 3 more minutes. The dough should be
elastic and a little sticky. Continue to knead for another 3 minutes,
remembering to dust your board when necessary. Wrap the dough in
plastic and allow to rest for 30 minutes at room temperature. Note:
do not skip the kneading or resting portion of this recipe, they are
essential for a light pasta.

Yield: 1 pound

To assemble tortellini:

Lay out 1 sheet of pasta and cut into 2-inch rounds using a water
glass or cookie cutter. Cover cut rounds with a damp kitchen towel so
that they do not dry out. Working 5 at a time, place 1/2 teaspoon
filling in center of each round. Fold each round in half to form a
half moon and pinch the edges tightly together to seal. Take the two
opposing corners and bring the tails of the half moon together,
twisting one half turn so that the sealed half round edge curves
around the outside of the filled soul of the tortellini. Repeat with
each round until all pasta is used up. Leave formed pasta shapes
uncovered to dry.

To serve, heat the chicken stock to boil in a large pasta pot and add
onion marmalade. Check broth for seasoning with salt. Drop 48
tortellini into broth and return to boil. Lower heat until just under
boil and cook tortellini until tender and yet still possessing a
discernible resistance to the bite, about 4 to 6 minutes. Spoon 12
tortellini into each of 4 warm soup bowls and divide the broth among
them. Sprinkle with grated Parmigiano-Reggiano and serve immediately.

Yield: 4

:MOLTO MARIO SHOW #MB5681
Recipe By

Date: Mon, 28 Oct 1996 22:13:41
~0500

