Title: 'orrible Severed Handwiches (Halloween)
Categories: Holiday, Kids, Sandwich
Yield: 1 servings
Tomato ketchup
Mayo or similar spread
1    Loaf of your favorite
Sandwich bread
10 sl Ham
You will need a knife and a cutting board. Press your hand onto one
slice of the bread so that it leaves an impression. Cut round the
impression with a sharp knife so that you have a hand shaped piece of
bread. Do the same with the other piece of bread, put spread on one
slice of bread. Rip the slice of ham so that it looks rough at the
edges an place it on the 'hand' of bread. Spread tomato ketchup on to
the 'wrist' and 'fingers' to look like blood. Put the other hand
shaped slice of bread on top to complete the sandwich. You can also
stick 5 almond sliver 'fingernails' on to the ends of the fingers
with ketchup, so that it looks as though blood is oozing out from
underneath. UGH!
From: Crazy Cooking
(With a name like that, I am not going to read it??)
Typed by Joell Abbott 8/94

Hummm, maybe next Halloween :)

Keep in mind that kid's taste buds are highly sensitive at this age.
Keep foods as close to natural as possible. The child can taste the
salts and sugars in veggies and fruits, they don't need a lot of
dressing up at this stage to be tasty to a child. (Sorry, I missed if
the child is male or female.) My nephews used to eat vegetables at my
house, cause I kept them crunchy, with not a lot of added spices for
them, their mom over cooked them and added butter, salt, pepper and
other flavorings she liked. Now is the time to really think about how
to guide the child's eating habits. I am a big advocate of balanced
meals. See guidelines readily available at your library.

Stir frying is easily adapted to 1 1/4 serves. Chop the veggies extra
small for the little one to handle better. Get a good mix of colors,
red, green, white, orange with the veggies, use a light flavored oil
like peanut. A very little amount of soy sauce and that is about it.
Serve over rice or noodles. Any left overs are good to add to broths
to make instant soups.

Go easy on the sausages. Lean meats are best for the child and
you :)

Cheers,
Joell in Mona Vale NSW

: From:  Crazy Cooking
Recipe By

Date: 10-19-95 (02:16)
From: Marjorie Scofield
(160) Fido: Recipes

