Title: About Low Sodium Substitutes
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 text file  Here's some information for the no salt part of his diet.

You should ask his doctor whether it's safe for him to use potassium
chloride as a salt substitute.  People with certain types of heart or
kidney problems conditions should not use it.  If he should also avoid
potassium chloride, then ask if calcium chloride is safe.  People who
get kidney stones sometimes need to avoid that.

If potassium chloride is safe, then the next step is a taste test to
select a brand to use.  Buy one bottle each (unseasoned) of a type
with tri-calcium phosphate on the ingredients list, and a type
without it. Types with it tend to be less bitter, but also tend to
cost more. If his diet allows, use no salt added cream of mushroom
soup for the taste test. Prepare the soup, and divide it into two
bowls. For each bowl, add one of the types of salt substitute until
it tastes salty enough. If one doesn't taste enough like you used
salt, pick the other type as the one to buy in the future.  Brands to
look for with tri-calcium phosphate are McCormick (possibly labelled
Schilling in some parts of the US), Kroger, and Morton's.  If one
type fails the taste test, reserve the rest of it to use in strongly
flavored foods, such as chili.

For the seasoned variety, I prefer Lawry's Seasoned Salt-Free for most
purposes, but also use McCormick Seasoned Saltless at times.

If you can fit popcorn into his diet, you may want to find a way to
powder the salt substitute so it will stick to the popcorn better. I
use a mortar and pestle, and add an assortment of herbs and spices as
I powder it. A lecithin spray, such as Pam, will help the powder
stick to the popcorn, without adding much fat.  I have thought of,
but never tried, spraying with water instead.

If you bake bread and he needs to avoid even the small amount of salt
used in bread, note that you shouldn't just leave out the salt in
bread recipes using yeast.  The salt slows down the yeast enough that
it won't stop working too early and let the dough collapse.  However,
a potassium chloride salt substitute works almost as well as salt for
this purpose; use the same amount.

If he shouldn't use potassium chloride, write to the following
company for more information about their products Ener-G
Low-Electrolyte Calcium Chloride and Ener-G Low-Electrolyte Baking
Powder, including where you can buy them.  Both products are low in
both sodium and potassium. You can also ask them to send recipes.

Ener-G Foods, Inc. P.O. Box 24723 Seattle, WA 98124

From:    Robert Miles
Submitted By JIM WELLER   On   10-09-95

