Title: About Wild Blackberries
Categories: Information, Fruit, Game
Yield: 1 text file  Other Names: Dewberry, Bramble [wild roses are also known as Bramble
or Bramblebush. Cultivated varieties include Loganberry, Boysenberry,
Youngberry, Cascadeberry and garden blackberry.

There are several species of blackberries but as they are similar in
appearance, tend to hybridize freely and all are edible I won't go
into detail. They are members of the genus, Rubus, as are Raspberries
and are members of the Rose family along with Saskatoons, Hawthorns,
Strawberries, Plums, Pin and Choke cherries, Crabapples, and Rowan
trees.

How To Recognize: Closely related to raspberries with compound
aggregate fruits, composed of many small juicy fruits called
drupelets, each with a single seed, adhering together to form the
"berry".

When ripe, blackberries break off with the whitish receptacle in the
middle still attached, in contrast to raspberries, which break off
freely from the receptacle, leaving a hollow cavity in the middle of
the fruit.

They can be slender-caned and trailing [dewberries] or stouter and
upright [blackberries]. The stems of all blackberries are woody and
usually prickle covered. The leaves are compound with 3 to 5
leaflets, toothed at the edges. The flowers are white to pinkish in
small to large clusters and the ripe berries are dark red to black,
juicy and slightly acid.

Where To Find: Blackberries are mainly restricted to the eastern
provinces and southern BC. They are found in dry open woods and along
roadsides. They will take over waste places and old farm orchards and
gardens where they can form dense thickets and choke out less
aggressive plants.

How To Use: Fresh or cooked, alone or with cream, sugar or other
dressings. Ice cream. Syrups for beverages, coolers, cocktails and
sauces. Jams, jellies and preserves. Wine. Pies, tarts, cobblers and
crisps. Sauce for cheesecake. Alone or with apples, raspberries or
other fruits.

The Indians used to mash them into cakes and dry them in the sun or
over a fire for winter use. They can be dried whole like raisins. The
leaves can be used for tea.
From: Edible Wild Fruits and Nuts of Canada,
published by the National Museums of Canada,
ISBN 0-660-00128-4

Posted by: Jim Weller
Submitted By JIM WELLER   On   10-09-95

