Title: All About Chocolate - The Cacao Tree and Bean
Categories: Chocolate, Information, Vegetables
Yield: 1 servings
No Ingredients Found
The origin of the cacao tree is still a mystery.  Some say it
originated in Brazil, others insist it was Venezuela and still others
are sure it was native to Central America.  But one thing we do know
is that the cacao tree is definitely a tropical plant and thrives
only in hot rainy climates. So this means that the cultivation of the
tree is confined to lands that are no more than 20 degree north or
south of the equator. The cacao tree grows in many countries in
Central and South America and is especially prolific along the West
Coast of Africa.  The cacao tree is unique in that its flowers and
fruit (the pods) cluster on both the trunk and the branches. The tree
is very sensitive to wind and hot sun especailly during the first two
to four years.  Therefore, it must be grown in valleys where it can
be sheltered from the wind and the sun by larger shade trees. The
trees bloom and bear fruit in five years, though some will produce
fruit in three or four years.  The tiny pink, white or yellow
blossoms are odorless, and the ripened pods resemble little
footballs. Each pod contains 20-40 cacao beans.  The job of
harvesting the ripe cacao pods is not easy. The trees are so fragile
that harvesters can't climb the tree to reach the higher branches, so
they use a "cacao hook," which is a knife attached to the end of a
long pole. Cutlasses are used to whack the pods on the lower
branches. Next, the harvesters break open the pods with a machete.  A
good worker can open 500 pods in an hour.  Then the ivory colored
beans are scooped out of the pod.  The beans change color from ivory
to purple after they are exposed to the air.  Then they are placed in
boxes to ferment.  This takes from two to nine days, depending on the
humidity.  The fermenting of the pulp and the curing action that
takes place inside the bean are what produce the first whiff of the
chocolate aroma.  Now the beans have turned a rich brown.  The beans
are dried on trays or bamboo matting, in the sun or indoors by hot
air pipes.  The dried beans are pouring into large sacks stamped with
the plantation owner's name.  Each sack holds about 200 pounds of
beans. They are ready to be sent to shipping centers where they will
be transported to cocoa and chocolate factories all over the world.
Origin: Farm Journal's Choice Chocolate Recipes Shared by: Sharon
Stevens Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   09-28-95

