Title: Basic Risotto Milanese with Saffron and Parmesan Cheese
Categories: Pasta/rice
Yield: 8 servings
1 lg Onion(s), minced
2 c  Short-grain white rice
1/2 c  Grated Parmesan cheese
Salt and pepper to taste
2 tb Parsley, minced (opt)
1/4 ts Saffron threads, crushed
1/2 c  Dry white wine
6 c  To 7 cups
-chicken or beef stock
4 tb Soft butter or olive oil
Steep the saffron threads in the white wine for 10 minutes and set
aside. Simmer stock in a separate saucepan. In a 3-qt. non-stick
saucepan, slowly melt 3 tbs. of the butter. When it just begins to
bubble, add the onions, stirring constantly with a wooden spoon, and
cook until they wilt and just begin to color, 5-8 minutes. Add the
rice and stir until the grains are well coated with the butter-onion
mixture. Stir in about « cup of the simmering stock, then the wine
and saffron mixture. Stir constantly over medium heat for about 4
minutes, or until the liquid has been completely absorbed. Add
another 2/3 cup of the simmering stock and stir until completely
absorbed, 5-8 minutes more.

Add simmering stock, using as much of the remaining stock as
necessary, reducing the amount with each addition and stirring until
the liquid is absorbed. After 15 minutes, begin to bite-test a grain
of rice. If it is tender, with a slightly firm center, and the rice
is creamy but not soupy, the risotto is finished.

Stir in the remaining tbs. of butter, the Parmesan cheese and the
salt and pepper. Sprinkle with parsley if desired and serve hot.

Variation #1 - Risotto with Peas and Prosciutto:

Add

:1« C. small fresh green peas (or a 10oz pkg. frozen small peas,
defrosted) :« C. diced prosciutto

Add these during the last 5 minutes of cooking.

Variation #2 - Risotto with Dried Wild Porcini Mushrooms:

Add

1 oz. dried porcini mushrooms

Soak mushrooms in warm water to cover for 30 minutes before cooking
the risotto. Strain the liquid through a dampened paper coffee filter
into a cup to eliminate grit and sand. Rinse the softened mushrooms
and cut them into small pieces. Add the mushroom liquid as part of
the stock. Add the mushrooms after 10 minutes of cooking the risotto.

Variation #3 - Risotto with Spring Vegetables:

Add

:3-4 lg shallots, minced
:¬ C. basil, minced
:¬ C. flat leaf parsley, minced
:8 thin asparagus spears, cut diagonally into 1" pieces
:2 plum tomatoes, cubed
:1 sm zucchini, cut into julienne strips

Replace the  onion in the original recipe with the minced shallots.
Stir the remaining herbs and vegetables into the risotto for the last
8 minutes of cooking. Cook until the vegetables are barely tender.

Variation #4 - Risotto with Shrimp: Add

:1 lb small shrimp
:2 C. boiling water
:1 bay leaf
:3 sprigs thyme

Peel and devein the shrimp. Add the shrimp shells   to the 2 C.
boiling water along with the bay leaf and thyme. Cover and simmer for
20 minutes. Strain the liquid and discard the shells and herbs. Use
this liquid along with the chicken stock. Split the shrimp in half
lengthwise and add them to the risotto for the last 3-5 minutes of
cooking.

The Versatile Grain
and the
Elegant Bean
by Sheryl and Mel London
ISBN 0-671-76106-4
pg 174-176
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   10-17-95

