Title: Basic Freezing Equipment
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM------------------BASIC FREEZING EQUIPMENT-----------------------
Except for the freezer and proper packaging materials, your kitchen is
probably already supplied with most of the other pots, pans, and
utensils you'll need for home freezing. Below is a guide to the tools
and materials necessary for proper freezing of vegetables. And always
remember that no matter how good your equipment, it must be
spotlessly clean and sanitary while you work, to prevent bacterial
contamination.

FREEZER CONTAINERS Preserving food by freezing is based on the
principle that extreme cold halts the activity of microorganisms,
enzymes, oxidation, and other changes that cause food spoilage.
Although it is not necessary that containers be hermetically sealed
in freezing foods, the packages you use MUST be airtight, as well as
moisture/vaporproof, odorless, tasteless, and grease proof.
The best package size for you depends on your freezer and your
family. Pack food in containers that will take care of one meal. You
can plan on two servings to a pint container; three or four servings
from a quart size. It's quicker to thaw two single pint containers
than one large container.
There are two kinds of freezer containers suitable for freezing
foods at home. Rigid containers an flexible bags or wrappers. Some
delicate vegetables like asparagus or broccoli might be damaged if
packaged immediately after blanching. To protect them, these
vegetables are tray frozen briefly before being packed in freezer
containers.

RIGID CONTAINERS Rigid containers are best for vegetables or foods
that are liquid or don't have a distinct shape. Rigid containers
include plastic freezer containers with tight fitting lids or
can-or-freeze jars with wide mouths and tight fitting lids. Square or
rectangular containers use freezer space more efficiently than round
containers or those with flared sides or raised bottoms. Freezer
containers can be reused. Wash them and their lids in hot suds; then
rinse, drain, and cool.
Can-or-freeze jars come in three sizes: 1/2 pint, 1 pint and 1-1/2
pints. Plastic freezer boxes come in 1 pint, 1-1/2 pint, 1 quart, and
2 quart sizes.

FREEZER BAGS AND POUCHES Bags made from polyethylene or heavy duty
plastic or the new boilable pouches that can be heat sealed are also
good for freezing vegetables. Liquid foods are safest in plastic bags
that are then placed in protective cardboard boxes. Although bags
aren't always easy to stack, they're great for tray frozen vegetables
and bulky or odd shaped items.
Plastic freezer bags come in many sizes: 1 pint, 1-1/2 pints, 1
quart, 2 quarts, 1 gallon, and 2 gallons. You close these bags by
pressing out the air, and either twisting the top and doubling it
over, then wrapping the top several times with a twist tie; or by
pressing out the air and pressing closed a zipper type top.

OTHER PACKAGING MATERIALS Never use empty plastic coated milk cartons
or cottage cheese or ice cream containers for freezing since these
aren't airtight enough to be reused as freezer containers.
Lightweight plastic wrap, butcher paper, and waxed paper aren't tough
enough to protect food in the freezer either. Freezer wrap, specially
laminated or coated freezer paper, heavy duty plastic wrap, or heavy
duty aluminum foil, is seldom used for freezing vegetables. Save it
for meats, fish, game, casseroles and cakes.

Source: Vegetable Gardening Encyclopedia Typos by Dorothy Flatman 1995
Submitted By DOROTHY FLATMAN   On   09-28-95

