Title: Beaver Information
Categories: Game, Canadian, Information
Yield: 1 servings
INFORMATION
From "Northern Cookbook" edited by Eleanor Ellis, Indian Affairs and
Northern Development, Ottawa 1973.

The industrious beaver is the largest rodent on the North American
Continent, and is found in all the waterways of the forested areas of
the north. Its rich brown fur has long been prized by trappers and
hunters, and the search for beaver pelts instigated much of the early
exploration of the continent. Because of its contribution to the
development of our Dominion, the beaver has been chosen as an emblem
of Canada.
If the beaver pelt is to be prepared for market, care should be
taken in skinning the animal. Lay the beaver on its back in a clean
place and cut off the legs at the first joints. Then, with a sharp
knife, slit the pelt, starting at the lower lip. Insert the knife in
this slit and, with the sharp edge up, cut the pelt in a straight
line down the belly to the vent. Work out from this centre line cut
and, with short strokes,, separate the skin from the flesh. Carefully
pull the legs through the skin, leaving four round holes in the pelt.
Cut off the tail where it meets the fur. Skin carefully around the
eyes and cut the ears close to the skull. Finish removing the pelt,
taking as little flesh and fat with it as possible, then lay it on a
flat surface, fur side down, and sponge off all the blood marks with
lukewarm water. Complete directions for stretching and cleaning pelts
are available from the Game Management Officers.
Beaver meat is dark red, fine grained, moist and tender, and
:
when properly prepared, is similar in flavour to roast pork. Cut the
head from the carcass and eviscerate the animal as follows: Make a
cut through the thin layer of meat from the breastbone to the vent,
encircling the vent, and being careful not to puncture the
intestines. Lay the body cavity open, and remove the viscera by
grasping them above the stomach and pulling down and out from the
body cavity. Carefully cut out the tiny musk glands from under the
skin on the insides of the legs and be sure to remove the castor
gland under the belly near the tail. Trim off all the fat, then wash
the carcass thoroughly with warm water.

Typos by Bert Christensen
Submitted By BERT CHRISTENSEN   On   10-05-95

