Title: Breadsticks Salted or Barbecue
Categories: Breads
Yield: 2 dozen
MMMMM---------------------SALTED BREADSTICKS--------------------------
1 ts Salt
1    Egg white, mixed with
1 tb Water
Coarse Kosher salt
2 c  All-purpose flour
1 pk Active dry yeast
3/4 c  Milk
2 tb Shortening
1 tb Sugar
MMMMM-------------------BARBECUED BREADSTICKS------------------------
2 tb Bottled barbecue sauce
1 ts Minced dried onion
2/3 c  Milk (instead of 3/4 cup
-listed above)
In a small mixer bowl, combine 3/4 cup of the flour and the yeast. In
a saucepan, heat milk, shrotening, sugar, and salt till warm (120
degrees) and shortening is almost melted, stirring constantly. Add to
flour mixture. Beat at low speed of electric mixer for 2 minutes,
scraping sides of bowl as you go along. Beat 3 minutes at high speed.
Stir in as much of the remaining flour as you can with a spoon.

Turn out onto a lightly floured surface. Knead enough of the remaining
flour to make a stiff dough that is elastic (9 minutes total.) Shape
into a ball. Place in a lightly greased bowl;  turn once to grease
surface. Cover, let rise in a draft free, warm place till double
(about 50 minutes.)

Punch down; turn out onto a lightly floured surface. Divide dough
into 4 pieces. Cover with a tea towel for 10 minutes to let dough
rest. Divide each piece into 6 pieces. Roll each piece into an 8 inch
rope. Place on greased baking sheets. Cover with floured tea towel
and let rise till almost double (about 30 minutes.) If desired, brush
with a mixture of egg white and water, and sprikle with coarse salt
(or sesame seeds.)

Bake in a 375 degree oven for 12 minutes or till golden brown. For
drier breadsticks, after baking 10 minutes, decrease heat to 300
degrees and bake for 27 more minutes.

BARBECUE BREADSTICKS:

Prepare breadstick dough as above, except decrease the milk to 2/3 c
and stir 2 tb. bottled barbecue sauce and 1 ts. instant minced dried
onion into the the milk-shortening mixture in saucepan. Omit
sprinkling breadsticks with coarse salt or seed. For drier barbecue
breadsticks, bake in 375 degree oven for 10 minutes, then decrease
temperature to 300 degrees and bake only 17 minutes longer.

Originally posted by Elizabeth Siegler typed into MM format by Mary
Riemerman

NOTE: I made the crispy salted breadsicks (got raves from all who
tried them.) I found that they were browning unevenly halfway through
so I rotated the pans.
Submitted By MARY RIEMERMAN   On   10-14-95

