Title: Cheese Stuffed Jalapenos
Categories: Appetizers, Tex/mexican, Cheese/eggs
Yield: 10 servings
MMMMM---------------------BASIC INGREDIENTS--------------------------
20    Jalapenos, Canned not fresh
6 md Green onions, scallions
6 oz Sharp Cheddar, shredded
4 oz Cream Cheese, softened
1 tb Dry bread crumbs
MMMMM-------------------ADD FOR BREADED STYLE------------------------
2 tb Butter or Margerine
1/2 c  Plain bread crumbs
Combine the cheddar cheese, bread crumbs and green onions.  Mix
thouroughly.  Add the softened cream cheese and stir quickly into a
thick mass.

Caution:    When working with Hot Peppers in quantity be sure to wear
rubber gloves.  You will regret it if you don't.

Unbreaded style.
A).

to prepare the peppers, slit the side of each pepper length-wise and
remove the seed pod and membrane.   Leave the stem on the pepper to
use as a handle.  Stuff each pepper with the mxture and arrange in a
glass baking dish.  Just before serving, heat in a hot oven (350
degrees) until the cheese just starts to melt.  Be careful not to let
the cheese run out of the peppers.  These have been a staple at our
parties for years. Pepper lovers go crazy and even the less daring
find them tasty, albiet SPICY. Makes about 20 to 24 peppers

Oven Breaded Style.
B).

Prepare these peppers by cutting each pepper in half and removing the
seeds and membrane.  Stuff each half with the cheese mixture and roll
the cheese side of the pepper in bread crumbs.   Arrange the peppers
in a glass baking dish and brush lightly with butter or margerine.
Bake just before serving in a 375 degree oven until lightly browned.

Makes about 40.

These have a similar appearance to the poppers in the resturants and
are easier than the unbreaded style to prepare.   They are also
easier to eat. Although these are very good, the unbreaded style is
the tastiest. But then again I tend to be a purist.

Both styles can be prepared ahead of time and placed in the
refrigerator. Great for parties.

Rod's Wild Recipes
Submitted By IAN HOARE   On   10-22-95

