Title: Chocolate Macadamia Nut Meringue With Tropical Fruit Crea
Categories: Desserts, Masterchefs
Yield: 8 servings
MMMMM--------------------------MERINGUE-------------------------------
8 oz Granulated sugar
1 pt Whipped egg whites
1 lb Macadamia nuts
MMMMM------------------------MANGO CREAM-----------------------------
2 oz Sugar
1 oz Unflavored gelatin
1 qt Heavy cream
1    Mango -- medium diced
MMMMM------------------------GUAVA CREAM-----------------------------
2    Fresh Guavas -- diced with
1 oz Unflavored gelatin
1 qt Heavy cream
4 oz Guava cream
--OR--
MMMMM-------------------------GARNISHES------------------------------
Green apple sauce
Blackberry sauce
Guava sauce
Raspberry sauce
Creme fraiche
Passion fruit slices
Raspberry sorbet
Strawberry slices
Semisweet chocolate sauce
4    Heath bars -- crushed
(approx)
Chocolate gnache
Chocolate glaze
Milk chocolate
White chocolate
Mango sauce
Meringue: Finely chop nuts with granulated sugar in a food processor.
Fold together egg whites and nuts, using your hands or a wooden
spoon, until combined. Lightly grease a sheet pan (chef used a 24"
long sheet pan), and line with parchment paper. Spread meringue
evenly over parchment paper. Bake at 325~ 25 - 30 minutes until
golden brown. Remove from oven and paint with semisweet chocolate
sauce. Refrigerate until set. Cut cake into 3 strips (with a 24" long
sheet pan, each strip will be 8").

Mango Cream: Puree in blender, heavy cream, diced mango, sugar and
unflavored gelatin. Spread mango cream evenly over one strip.
Sprinkle with toffee topping (crushed heath bars). Place 2nd strip on
top.

Guava cream: Guavas are a seasonal fruit even in Florida. If you
can't get fresh guavas you can purchase commercially prepared guava
cream. Puree heavy cream, guavas and gelatin (or heavy cream and
guava cream) in a blender. Spread evenly over 2nd strip. Sprinkle
with toffee topping.

Spread a layer of chocolate gnache over top. Refrigerate until set.
Pour chocolate glaze over top and spread to cover. (the glaze will
run over the sides). With a pastry bag, squeeze milk chocolate back
and forth in length-wise lines across top. Repeat using white
chocolate. Using a knife and pressing down lightly, draw through
chocolates across the meringue, making "slices" at different
intervals. Refrigerate until chocolate is set. After chocolate is
set, trim edges so they look clean. (no chocolate dribbles)

Presentation: Slice one piece of meringue by cutting it at an angle.
Starting with a very thin top point and a wider base. Turn meringue
around and slice the next piece the same way. Turn meringue around
again and slice the next piece the same way. Repeat until meringue is
all sliced. (You should end up with 8 pieces, depending on how thick
you make the slices. Slices should resemble a spire.)

On a serving plate squeeze a circle of manga sauce about 1 inch in
from the edge. (The chef used a dinner-sized serving plate.) Next to
the mango sauce, going towards center of plate, squeeze a circle of
green apple sauce. Continue making circles with blackberry sauce,
guava sauce, and raspberry sauce. (You can use any fruit sauce you
like, but try and make them different colors.) Pick up the plate and
tap the bottom lightly to blend the edges of the sauces.   Squeeze a
little creme fraiche over sauces, starting at center and working
outward to edge (pinwheel style). Pick up the plate and with a
swirling motion create a pretty design with the sauces.

Stand a meringue slice, towards the edge of the plate, in the sauce.
At the base of the meringue slice garnish with a slice of passion
fruit containing a dollop of raspberry sorbet, a strawberry slice
and/or other fruit pieces of your choice.

My Note:  This is a spectacular presentation due to the combinations
of the different colored sauces and the different colored fruit
pieces.

From Great Chefs Show  12/94 Typed for you by Marjorie Scofield
10/12/95

: Pastry Chef Tom Worhach, Ocean Grand, Palm Beach, FL
Recipe By

Date: 10-13-95 (21:38) (160)
From: Marjorie Scofield
Fido: Recipes

