Title: Chutneyed Beef Tenderloin - SL 11/94
Categories: Main dish, Meats, Holiday
Yield: 12 servings
1 tb Butter / margarine; softened
5 lb To 6 lb beef tenderloin;
-trimmed
Wine Reduction Sauce
3 tb Butter
1/2 ts Fresh thyme; chopped
-OR-
1/4 ts Dried thyme
4 c  Ready-to-serve, reduced
-sodium beef broth
1 ea Carrot; scraped and chopped
1 ea Onion; quartered
1 ea Stalk celery; chopped
1 ea 9-oz jar chutney; finely
-chopped
1 ts Salt
1/2 ts Coarsely ground pepper
MMMMM--------------------WINE REDUCTION SAUCE-------------------------
1 ea Bay leaf
3 ea To 4 sprigs fresh thyme
750 ml Bottle Cabernet Sauvignon
3 cl Shallots; minced
Chutneyed Beef Tenderloin:
Combine beef broth and next 3 ingredients in a saucepan; bring to
a boil over medium heat.  Reduce heat, and simmer 40 minutes or until
mixture is reduced to about 1-1/2 cups.  Pour mixture through a
wire-mesh strainer ito a bowl, reserving vegetables; set beef broth
reduction mixture aside.
Position knife blade in food processor bowl; add reserved
vegetables. Process until smooth.  Set vegetable mixture aside.
Combine chutney and next 3 ingredients; stirring until smooth.
Spread half of chutney mixture evenly over all surfaces of
tenderloin. Place tenderloin on a rack in a shallow roasting pan.
Bake at 450F for 20 minutes.  Remove from oven, and spread
remaining chutney mixture evenly over tenderloin.  Bake 10 to 20
additional minutes or until a meat thermometer inserted in thickest
portion registers 145F for rare, 160F for medium.  Remove tenderloin
from pan, and let stand 15 minutes before slicing.
Remove rack from pan.
Add beef broth reduction to pan; place pan over burners.  Bring to
a boil over medium heat, stirring to loosen browned particles.  Pour
broth mixture into a saucepan; add Wine Reduction Sauce and vegetable
mixture.
Bring mixture to a boil; reduce heat, and simmer 5 minutes,
stirring frequently.  Whisk in 3 tablespoons butter, 1 tablespoon at
a time. Stir in thyme.  Serve with tenderloin.  Yield: 12 servings.

Wine Reduction Sauce:
Combine all ingredients in a small saucepan.  Bring to a boil over
medium heat; reduce heat, and simmer until liquid is reduced to about
1 cup (about 40 minutes).  Pour mixture through a wire-mesh strainer
into a measuring cup, pressing with the back of a spoon against sides
of strainer to remove all juices.  Discard solids.  Yield: 1 cup.

Jan Downs of Louisiana, in November, 1994 "Southern Living". Typos by
Jeff Pruett.
Submitted By JEFF PRUETT   On   11-13-95

