Title: Coconut-Curried Chicken with Roasted Eggplant
Categories: Poultry, Vegetables
Yield: 4 servings
MMMMM--------------------------MARINADE-------------------------------
1 tb Soy sauce
1    Garlic clove(s), minced
1 lg Shallot, minced
1 ts Lemon zest, finely grated
2 tb Dry white wine
1 tb Peanut oil
1 tb Curry powder
1 tb Ginger, finely chopped
MMMMM--------------------CHICKEN AND EGGPLANT-------------------------
1 ts Soy sauce
1/2 ts Lemon zest
1/2 c  Unsweetened coconut milk
12 oz Cooked egg noodles
-for serving
1/4 c  Cilantro leaves
2 tb Unsalted peanuts, chopped
4    Chicken breast halves
-boneless, with skin
1 1/2 tb Peanut oil
1    Eggplant (1 1/4 lb)
-cut into 3x1-inch sticks
Salt and pepper to taste
1/2 ts Sugar
1. Make the marinade and marinate the chicken. In a small shallow
glass or ceramic dish, combine the wine with the peanut oil, curry
powder, ginger, soy sauce, garlic, shallot, and lemon zest. Add the
chicken breasts to the marinade and turn to coat. Set aside for at
least 20 minutes or overnight.

2. Preheat the oven to 450øF. Spread a little of the peanut oil on a
large baking sheet. Arrange the eggplant on the sheet and season with
salt and pepper. Bake on the bottom shelf of the oven until the
sticks are well browned on the bottom, about 25 minutes. using a
metal spatula, scrape the eggplant from the sheet and set aside.

3. In a large skillet, heat the remaining peanut oil over high heat
until almost smoking. Add the chicken breasts, skin side down, and
reduce the heat to moderately high. Cook the chicken until the skin
is nicely browned, about 3 minutes. Turn the chicken and add 1 cup of
water and the sugar. Cover, reduce the heat to moderately low and
simmer until the chicken is cooked through, about 8 minutes. Transfer
the chicken to a plate.

4. Increase the heat to moderately high and add the soy sauce and
lemon zest. Boil the cooking liquid to thicken it slightly and
concentrate the flavor. Return th chicken to the skillet, add the
coconut milk and simmer for 1 minute.

5. Transfer the chicken to plate. Toss the eggplant with the egg
noodles and arrange next to the chicken. Pour the sauce over the
chicken and noodles and garnish with the cilantro leaves and peanuts.

Food and Wine September 1995
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   09-29-95

