Title: Cooking Picnic provides change for experimenting
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 servings
No Ingredients Found
This last summer I was able to attend the second Annual International
Cooking Echo Picnic in Portland, Oregon.  I have been accessing the
Cooking Echo through our computer Bulletin Board System, and was able
to meet some of the people that I have been writing back and forth
with over the last couple of years.

It was a real treat to not only meet these people, but to actually
sample some of the various dishes that have becomes so "famous" and
linked to the different characters.  The dishes that were there were
as varied as the characters that brought them.  One of the people,
Stephen Ceideberg, who is well know on the Echo for his "unusual"
tastes and preferences for Asian foods, brought along 1000-year old
duck eggs, tamarind, and licoriced limes.
I tried the 1000 year old duck egg, it was kind of muddy tasting,
with a gritty consistency.  I told Stephen that as much as I was
willing to try different things, I didn't think that I would be
trying them again soon! The tamarind was very spicy and I might be
tempted to use some in a sweet and sour dish if I ever broke down and
bought any.  The licoriced limes were extremely salty, so much so
that it burned the tongue, and was very strong tasting.
Next year he has threatened to bring a durian, which is a fruit that
is very good tasting once you get past the strong sewer like smell.
If I try any next year and survive, I will let you all know whether
or not to add it to your "maybe" try list.
The lady who moderates the Echo and tries to keep the rest of us in
line, Joann Pierce, brought an excellent taco salad and a spice cake
with maple frosting.
Al Martin, a salmon smoker extraordinaire, brought a gumbo that he
claimed he had fretted over all the previous day.  And made sure that
eveyone knew just how hard he worked in order to get it finished in
time.  He is known as the punster, so we were hesitant to take him
seriously, but will have to admit, he provided us with just about the
best tasting smoked salmon I have ever had.
Being the only Canadian that attended and having taken some pretty
serious ribbing all year long about what I was going to bring to the
picnic, I managed to get into everyone's good books by providing some
moose jerky, and lots of my stained glass candy.  By the time we were
finished sampling all the goodies that had been brought, we only had
enough energy left to sit around moaning and groaning about how we
should NOT have had that fourth helping of everything and comparing
differences in politics, medical coverage, and the horrendous prices
of most things. After many different poses for all those who had
brought their cameras along, we split off into groups and we took off
and did some more sightseeing and headed up to Mount Hood and visited
Timber Line Lodge. We made some new friends, got some wonderful
recipes, and they got a commitment from us to come back again next
year for the Third Annual International Cooking Echo Picnic.  The
recipes that I got from the various people there, I will be posting
over the winter. Origin:  My newspaper article,  published October
14, 1992. Shared by: Sharon Stevens.

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   11-09-95

