Title: Cooking Celery
Categories: Information, Vegetables
Yield: 1 info
None
To most American, celery equals crunch. We almost always eat it raw.
Cooking celery brings out its sweet side, a quality absent in the
grassy bite of raw celery. Celery can be braised, sauteed, pureed,
baked, or fried, but not steamed or boiled, because these methods
render it almost tasteless.

No matter how you cook your celery, you want to start with a good,
fresh bunch. Avoid buying celery wrapped in plastic; there isn't
necessarily anything wrong with it, but the plastic makes it
difficult to feel and smell the celery. The ribs should be firm and
bright green. Don't buy celery paste its prime. If the ribs are
rubbery, or the leaves are yellow or brown, the celery won't have
much flavor.

Despite its sturdy appearance, celery doesn't keep very long, even
when refrigerated; it can become soft after just 3 or 4 days. To keep
celery fresh, wrap it loosely in a plastic bag and keep it in the
vegetable crisper.

To prepare celery for cooking, pull away the outermost ribs. These are
usually too tough to be made completely tender. Use them for soups or
stocks. Once you get to the heart of the celery, the tender, inner
ribs, you may still need to peel away some of the fibrous strings on
the outer ribs of the heart, which is easily done with a vegetable
peeler. Cleaning celery is easier if you separate the ribs; simply
rinse the individual ribs under running water.

To chop or mince the ribs, cut them into manageable sections. Slice
these sections lengthwise to the desired thinness. Use one hand to
hold the strips of celery in line and the other to chop across the
grain into the desired size.

Other Forms of Celery

Celery Seeds:
The tiny, aromatic seeds of celery pack the vegetable's strong
distinctive taste. They lend celery's flavor to all kinds of dishes,
including breads, crackers, soups, stews, and salads. Celery
seasoning, often rubbed on meats and poultry before roasting or
grilling, is made by grinding salt with celery seeds. For both the
seed and the seasoning, a little goes a long way.

Celery Leaves:
Celery leaves add a more subtle celery flavor to dishes. In europe and
Asia, celery leaves are used as an herb, similar to the way we use
parsley. Thin-ribbed Chinese celery. which you can find in Asian
markets, is cultivated for its big leaves. When you buy celery, look
for a bunch with fresh, leafy tops.

Celery Root or Celeriac:
Celery root is a separate strain of celery. Its beige, gnarled bulb
looks impenetrable, but once peeled, the bulb is quite soft and easy
to cut. Cooked celery root is delicious when mashed with potatoes.

Fine Cooking
Oct-Nov 1995
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   11-13-95

