Title: Corn And Crab In Pastry
Categories: Fish/seafoo, Pastry, Salsa/sauce, Pie/tart
Yield: 4 servings
2 2/3 c  All-purpose flour
1 c  Very cold butter -- cut into
-1" pieces
3 ts Salt
1/2 c  Ice water
1 pt Heavy cream
1 ts White pepper
1/2 ts Garlic powder
Parchment paper -- to line
Pastry pans
2 tb Olive oil
1    Clove Garlic -- minced
1/2    Onion -- diced small
1    Green pepper -- diced small
1    Red pepper -- diced small
1 tb Creole seasoning
6    Green onions -- sliced
3    Corn on the cob -- boiled in
Crab boil
1 1/2 lb Lump crabmeat -- picked
Clean
STEP ONE: Make Pie Dough-- Cut butter into 1-inch pieces. Sift flour
and salt together into large bowl. With pastry blender or two butter
knives, cut butter into flour until mixture has the consistency of
coarse meal. Quickly blend in enough cold water so that the dough
will hold together enough to gather up into a ball. Wrap in wax paper
and chill at least an hour, preferably overnight.

When the pie dough is ready, cut into four 5-inch and four 6-inch pie
crusts.

STEP TWO: Prepare the Corn and Crab Stuffing-- Preheat oven to 375
degrees. Saute 1/2 onion, 1/2 green and red peppers, 3 sliced green
onions, and garlic in olive oil, add Creole seasoning and cool.

Place mixture in a bowl. Cut kernels off 1 cob; reserve cob and add
kernels to vegetable mixture. Toss vegetable mixture with 1 pound
crab meat.

Spoon mixture onto center of four 5-inch crusts, drape 6-inch top
crusts over, and seal edges. Bake at 375 degrees on parchment-covered
baking pan for 20 minutes.

STEP THREE: Prepare the Sauce for Corn and Crab-- Cut kernels off of
two ears of fresh corn. Place kernels in pan with heavy cream and
reserved cob from Step Two.

Reduce by 1/2 and remove cob. Add 1/2 red and green peppers, 3 sliced
green onions, and 1/2 pound crab meat. Season with salt, pepper, and
garlic powder and simmer for 2 to 3 minutes.

STEP FOUR: Assembly and Serving-- Arrange pastries on four dishes and
top with sauce.

: Emeril Lagasse of Emeril's Restaurant, New Orleans
Recipe By

Date: 10-08-95 (03:15) (160)
From: Marjorie Scofield
Fido: Recipes

