Title: Crispy Pickle Or Zucchini Slices
Categories: Can/preserv, Pickles
Yield: 7 servings
2 c  Sugar
3 c  White vinegar
1 1/2 tb Mustard seed
1 1/2 ts Mixed pickling spice
1 ts Celery seed
1/2 ts Turmeric
6 lb Medium pickling cucumbers OR
6 lb Medium zucchini
1 lb Small white onions
2 lg Cloves garlic; optional
1/3 c  Pure granulated salt
2 ea Trays ice cubes
These are fresh packed pickles and don't require curing or brining.
You may know them as bread and butter pickles. This recipe makes
seven 1 pint jars. In addition to the basic equipment, you will need
a large mixing bowl, clean plastic dish pan, or enamel kettle.

1. Organize and prepare ingredients, equipment, and work area.

2. Select perfect, evenly sized cucumbers or zucchini. Don't use any
that float. Wash the cucumbers or zucchini thoroughly and scrub them
with a brush. Cut off both ends and discard. Slice the cucumber or
zucchini about 1/8-inch thick into a large mixing bowl, dish pan, or
kettle.

3. Peel the onions and slice then 1/2-inch thick; add them to the
mixing bowl. peel the garlic cloves, stick each on a wooden pick (for
easy spotting and removal) and add them to the vegetables along with
the salt. Mix them well.

4. Cover the cucumber onion mixture with ice cubes and set aside for 3
hours.

5. Drain the vegetables very well. Pick out garlic.

6. In a large kettle, combine all the remaining ingredients and heat
to boiling. Add the sliced vegetables and heat over medium high heat 5
minutes.

7. Ladle into hot jars to within 1/2 inch of tops.

8. Run a slim non metal tool down along the insides of jars to
release any air bubbles. Spoon in additional brine from the kettle to
fill jars to within 1/2 inch of the tops, if necessary.

9. Wipe tops and threads of jars with a damp clean cloth.

10. Put on lids and screw bands as manufacturer directs.

11. Process in a boiling water bath for 5 minutes. Follow basic steps
for boiling water bath canning, 10 through 18.

Source: Vegetable Gardening Encyclopedia Typos by Dorothy Flatman 1995
Submitted By DOROTHY FLATMAN   On   10-09-95

