Title: Crown Roast Of Pork With Sausage And Herb Stuffing
Categories: Meats, Dress/stuff
Yield: 6 servings
Salt and freshly ground
-pepper
1    Crown roast of pork with 16
Chops -- about 6 lbs
MMMMM-----------------SAUSAGE AND HERB STUFFING----------------------
2 1/2 c  Fresh herbed bread crumbs --
(Recipe follows)
1    Egg -- well beaten
1/4 c  Chicken stock -- approx.
Salt and freshly ground
-pepper
1/4 c  Unsalted butter
1 lg Yellow onion -- minced
1 lg Celery stalk -- in 1/4"
-dice
2    Cloves Garlic -- minced
1/2 lb Bulk sweet pork sausage --
-crumbled
MMMMM--------------------HERBED BREAD CRUMBS-------------------------
1/8 ts Dried thyme
1/4 ts Chopped fresh rosemary --
OR
1/8 ts Dried rosemary
4 sl White bread
1 pn Salt
1 pn Freshly ground pepper
1/4 ts Chopped fresh thyme -- OR
Position rack in middle of oven and preheat to 400~.
Set crown roast on a rack in roasting pan. Season to taste with salt
and pepper. Roast, uncovered, on middle rack for 30 minutes. Reduce
heat to 325~ and, basting frequently with pan juices, continue
roasting for 45 minutes.

Sausage and Herb Stuffing:  In a large frying pan over medium-low
heat, melt butter. Add onion and celery and saute, stirring
occasionally, until very soft, about 15 minutes. Add garlic and
sausage and cook, stirring, until sausage is browned, about 10
minutes longer. Using a slotted spoon, transfer sausage mixture to a
bowl. Discard the fat in the pan. Add bread crumbs and egg to sausage
mixture. Add enough chicken stock just to moisten the stuffing, then
season to taste with salt and pepper. Mix well.
Mound stuffing in center of crown roast and return roast to oven. Bake
until an instant-read thermometer inserted into center of roast away
from the bone registers 150~ or a chop is pale pink when cut in the
center, about 30 minutes longer. (Check periodically and cover the
rib ends with foil if they brown before the meat is done).
Remove roast from oven, cover with a large piece of foil and let stand
for 10 minutes before carving.
To serve, cut meat between rib bones. Accompany each serving with a
spoonful of stuffing.
Serves 6 - 8.

Herbed Bread Crumbs:  The best bread to use is a coarse-textured white
bread that can be purchased sliced in 1- or 1-1/2-pound loaves.

Cut the crust off bread and discard. Tear bread into pieces. In a food
processor fitted with a metal blade or in a blender, combine bread,
salt and pepper. Process bread until it forms coarse crumbs.
Add thyme and rosemary and pulse a few times just until well mixed.
Use immediately, or store in an airtight container in the freezer for
up to 1 year.
Makes about 1 cup.  (You will need to triple this recipe for use with
Sausage and Herb Stuffing)

Typed for you by Marjorie Scofield    11/3/95

: Williams-Sonoma Kitchen Library, Pork & Lamb
Recipe By

Date: 11-12-95 (09:24)
From: Marjorie Scofield
(159) Fido: Cooking

