Title: Curried Wild Rice Salad
Categories: Salads, Vegetarian, Pasta/rice
Yield: 8 servings
1/4 ts Pepper
1/2 c  White raisins
1/2 c  Carrots, chopped
1 c  Red bell pepper, chopped
1/2 c  Black olives, sliced
1/4 c  Parsley, chopped
Lettuce or
1 bn Watercress
1/4 c  Roasted pine nuts
3 c  Vegetable or other stock
1/2 c  Wild rice
-washed and drained
1 tb Olive oil
1/2 c  Shallots, chopped
1 tb Curry powder
1 c  Basmati rice
-washed and drained
1 ts Salt
MMMMM---------------------LEMON VINAIGRETTE--------------------------
2 ts Dijon mustard
4 tb Olive oil
2 tb Lemon juice
1 ts Salt
1/2 ts Pepper
1. In a 2-quart saucepan with a tight-fitting lid, bring 1« cups of
the stock to a rolling boil. Add the wild rice and stir. cover, turn
the heat to low and simmer until all the liquid has been absorbed,
about 1 hour. turn the heat off and let wild rice relax, covered, for
about 30 minutes.

2. In a separate saucepan with a tight-fitting lid, heat the olive
oil. Add the shallots and saut‚ until they begin to color, 2-3
minutes. Add the curry powder and saut‚ another minute.

3. Add the basmati rice and stir until the rice is coated with the
oil. Add the remaining 1« cups stock, salt and pepper. Turn the heat
to high until the liquid reaches a rolling boil. After 15 minutes,
check to make sure that the stock has been absorbed. Turn off the
heat.

4. Add the raisins, carrots and bell pepper to the basmati rice. Stir,
covered, and let rice relax for 15 minutes.

5. Combine the cooked wild rice and basmati rice, gently tossing the
grains together as you would a leafy-green salad. Add the olives and
2 tbs of the parsley and toss again.

6. To prepare the vinaigrette, combine the lemon juice, salt, pepper,
mustard and oil in a jar with a tight-fitting lid; shake until
blended.

7. Add the vinaigrette to the rice and toss gently, but thoroughly.

Can be prepared to this point up to 2 hours ahead and left at room
temperature. Do not refrigerate.

8. Just before serving, spread the lettuce or watercress around the
outer edges of a large plate. Pile the rice in the center. Sprinkle
the remaining parsley and the roasted pine nuts on top of the rice.
Serve at room temperature.

Variation: Add blanched snow peas, sugar snap peas or cooked corn.

The Occasional Vegetarian by Karen Lee ISBN 0-446-51792-5 pg 122-123
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   10-05-95

