Title: Decorating Seafood with Style
Categories: Information, Fish/seafoo
Yield: 1 info
None
For a Contemporary Look:
~ Serve smooth, brightly colored sauces under the seafood.
~ Use squeeze bottle to drizzle different sauces in patterns on the
plate. - Center the food on the plate and decorate all around it.
~ Use dramatic cuts, colors and shapes.

For a More Comfortable Look:
~ Prepare ingredients in large, recognizable pieces.
~ Serve slightly larger portions.
~ Use chunkier sauces over the seafood.
~ Cook to a little darker color, caramelize the vegetables lightly.
~ Garnish simply, featuring natural looking items.

For a Splash of Color:
~ Parsley, chopped or whole-leaf, is a delightfully fragrant garnish
when fresh and moist. Use Italian flat-leaf parsley for a change.
~ Chives finely sliced in lengths, or even whole, add elegant lines.
~ Other herbs, chopped or whole, add lively flavor and color. Be sure
to keep them consistent with the recipe.
~ Bouquets of fresh greens bring a robust and refreshing element to
the dish. Try mizuna, frisee, tatsoi, dandelion, red endive or
watercress. - edible flowers and petals like nasturtiums, pansies,
calendula, bachelor buttons or clover bring a splash of springtime
color. Pluck from your garden or purchase from a produce grocer to be
sure that they have not been sprayed with harmful chemicals.
~ Bell peppers offer all of the colors of the rainbow! Cut them in
triangles, strips or dice them up into tiny, bright confetti.
~ Citrus zest, grated or cut in long curly strips or fine threads,
adds a tart and colorful accent.
~ Olive oil combined with concentrated vegetable or herb juices and
drizzled on the plates makes a brightly colored and lively accent. Use
beets, basil or carrots to add color and flavor.
~ Condiments such as bright relishes, chutneys or even diced,
marinated vegetables add a dollop of color and exciting flavor.
~ Seeds like toasted white or black sesame seeds, mustard seeds, poppy
seeds, or even coarse black pepper bring a sprinkling of contrast and
interest. Investigate Middle eastern or Indian markets for edible
seeds. - eggs are a versatile garnish. Cut hard-boiled egg whites
into shapes with tiny cutters. egg yolks can be pressed through a
sieve for a dusting of yellow. For lines of color, cut thin omelets
into strips.

Simply Seafood
Fall 1995
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   11-13-95

