Title: Dessert Tostada With Fresh Fruit, Cajeta, And Hot Fudge
Categories: Masterchefs, Tex/mexican, Desserts
Yield: 6 servings
2    Bananas -- halved, sliced
1/2 c  Green grapes -- cut in half
1/2 c  Red grapes -- cut in half
6    Sprigs Mint
4 c  Custard -- See Recipe
2 c  Cajeta -- See Recipe
1 c  Fudge sauce -- See Recipe
6    6-inch Flour tortillas
1 pt Strawberries -- cleaned
-quartered
1    Mangos -- peel & 1/2-inch
-dice
1    Papayas -- peel & 1/2-inch
-dice
1 pt Raspberries -- cleaned
This dessert combines several different dessert recipes into a single
delicious dessert. See recipes for "Vanilla Custard," "Cajeta," and
"Hot Fudge" in this cookbook to create the full recipe.

You will need 2 quarts of vegetable oil to fry the tortillas.

STEP ONE: Create the Tostada Cups--
In a one-gallon sauce pot, heat vegetable oil to 350 degrees F. Prick
numerous holes in flour tortillas. Place one tortilla at a time
inside an 8-ounce ladle. Place another 8-ounce ladle on top of
tortilla and slowly lower into vegetable oil. Once tortilla begins to
brown, about 10 to 15 seconds, remove from ladle and flip tortilla
over. Continue to cook for 5 to 10 more seconds. Repeat this method
with the remaining tortillas. Let tortillas drain, upside-down, until
ready to assemble.

STEP TWO:
Prepare the "Vanilla Custard," "Cajeta," and "Hot Fudge Sauce" recipes
before assembling the tostada cups.

STEP THREE: Assemble the Tostada Cups--
Combine fruit in a bowl and gently mix. Evenly distribute fruit into
the six tostada shells. Ladle 3 to 4 ounces of the Vanilla Custard
mix over the fruit, filling tostada to 1/4 inch below the rim. Brown
top of custard under a broiler or use a propane torch.

STEP FOUR: Finish the Tostada--
Ladle 2-3 ounces of cajeta onto each plate. Place tostada in the
middle of the plate and drizzle with hot fudge. Garnish each tostada
with a mint sprig and serve.

: Mark Haugen of Tejas, Minneapolis, MN
Recipe By

Date: 11-15-95 (09:22)
From: Marjorie Scofield
(160) Fido: Recipes

