Title: Double Crusted Pizza from Southern Italy
Categories: Pizza, Italian
Yield: 6 servings
2 x  Garlic cloves, crushed
6 x  Anchovies, rinse and chop
1 1/2 lb Pizza dough
1 x  Egg beaten with 1ts water
1 x  Salt & pepper, to taste
3 lb Mixed greens*
1/4 c  Golden raisins
1 tb Olive oil
1/2 lb Onions, peeled and sliced
24 x  Black olives, chop coarse
1/2 c  Pine nuts
* Mixed greens, such as spinach, chard, escarole, etc.
Set rack on lowest level of oven, preheat to 375 degrees. Lightly
oil a 10 inch springform pan, dust with flour and shake off excess.
Rinse greens, trim away any rough stem ends and slice tender stems
and leaves into one inch lengths. In a small bowl, soak raisins in
warm water for ten minutes, then drain.
Meanwhile, in a pan large enough to hold all the greens, heat olive
oil over medium heat. Add onions and garlic; cook, stirring often,
until light golden, 4-5 minutes. Stir in the greens, cover and cook
until wilted, 5-7 minutes. If necessary add a little water from time
to time to keep the greens from scorching. Stir in olives, pine nuts,
anchovies and the plumped raisins. Cook over medium low heat for 2-3
minutes longer. Season with salt and pepper to taste and let cool
completely.
Divide dough into two pieces, one a bit larger than the other. On a
lightly floured surface, roll out the larger of the two pieces into a
circle that is 14 inches in diameter and about 1/4 inch thick. Place
in the prepared springform pan, allowing a little dough to hang over
the edge. Fill pie with the vegetable mixture. Roll out second piece
of dough into a 10 inch diameter circle. Place it over the filling,
fold in the edges of the bottom crust and pinch together. Brush the
top with a little of the beaten egg mixture and poke holes in the top
to let steam escape while cooking. Bake for 40 -45 minutes, or until
golden and crisp. Remove from oven and let sit 15 minutes before
serving.
This is a traditional Christmas eve dish from Napoli. Source:
Eating Well Magazine, May 1994 Typos by Mark Miklas
Submitted By MARK MIKLAS   On   10-28-95

