Title: Fruit Sweet and Sugar Free - Information #4
Categories: Information, Diabetic
Americans have consumed one-fifth of the world's production of
Yield: 1 servings  :
sugar every year but one since the Civil War. And consumption has
risen at an amazing rate every year, so much so that white sugar is
the third most frequently consumed food in the United States after
coffee and white bread. For many Americans, sugar makes up 20 percent
of their diet.
As sugar can increase the risk of nutritional deficiencies by
:
diluting the total nutrient content of the diet, it is very likely to
pose a threat to the nutritional status of many people, specifically
those whose diets do include 15 to 20 percent added sugars (versus
naturally occurring sugars from whole fruits). This means these
people are getting too many calories with too few of the vitamins and
minerals needed for the proper metabolism of the calories. These
people would then need to fulfill 100 percent of their nutrient
requirements from 80 to 85 per cent of their diet. Yet is is highly
unlikely that they would do so, because these classic junk food
eaters are the very people who are least likely to be informed about
nutrition.
The stressful lifestyle of modern society also takes it toll
:
of our nutrient status. Psychological and environmental stresses
increase our nutrient needs while decreasing efficiency of intestinal
absorption. Stress often leads to drug, tobacco, and alcohol use,
which also increases nutrient needs. Therefore, it is more important
than ever that every calorie we take in be worth the energy, vitamins
and minerals it needs to be metabolized.
The Sugar Association, an organization representing sugar
:
manufacturers, has often stated in their advertising that there is a
lack of persuasive or conclusive evidence regarding sugar's role in
causing obesity, nutrient deficiencies, diabetes, adverse human
behaviour or in contributing to heart disease and cancer. However,
conclusive evidence is rarely available for diet-disease
relationships. And this lack of evidence may indicate that too few
studies have been conducted, rather than proving that sugar is not to
blame. Even if sugar only plays a significant role, rather than being
the sole cause of many twentieth-century problems, that is reason
enough for sugar intake to be limited in a healthy diet.
The Food and Drug Administration has often considered sugar
:
as a "food additive". As Dr. John Yudkin stated in his 1972 book
Sweet and Dangerous, "If only a small fraction of what is already
known about the effects of sugar were to be revealed in relation to
any other material used as a food additive, that material would be
promptly banned."
As sugar constitutes well over 10 percent of the average
:
American's diet, it is considerably more than an additive; it is a
substantial component of the diet. If you are interested in eating a
nutritious diet and minimizing your risk of health problems, then cut
down on sugar, or cut it out altogether!
From my own experiences with sugar and fruit sweeteners, I
:
know that fruit sweeteners are a transitional solution toward the
more moderate use of sweeteners. They are an excellent source of
sweetness and they enable me (and you) to create delicious and
beautiful pastries. They do not seem to cause the many side effects I
had previously experienced with sugar.
People who cut down on sugar agree that their taste buds seem
:
to come alive. They still get natural sweetness from foods but they
discover a whole range of new tastes. And in the end, this may be the
best reason to eat less sugar. I hope you will try and enjoy these
fruit-sweetened offerings from The Ranch Kitchen Restaurant and
bakery. They are guaranteed to help you find new and delicious ways
to satisfy your sweet cravings.
And the next time you are in Corwin Springs, Montana, do drop
:
in and say hello.
Submitted By JIM WELLER   On   10-09-95

