Title: Fruit Sweet and Sugar Free - the Fine Art of Baking #2
Categories: Information, Diabetic
Yield: 1 servings  Fruit Sweet and Sugar Free by Janice Feuer 1993 Royal Talon Ranch

Temperature ***********
The temperature of your ingredients, the room in which you
:
work, and your oven or stove top are as important as your good
techniques. Every aspect of baking requires its own temperature and
technique. Pie crusts need quick handling under cool conditions;
bread dough prefers thorough kneading and a warm room; feather light
cakes demand fast and gentle action with exact measurements and
perfect oven conditions; and non demanding apple butter requires
long, slow cooking with a minimum of attention.
Knowing your ingredients and at which temperature they
:
perform to their fullest saves time and avoids many frustrating
mistakes. Knowing that your unusually hot hands would ruin pie crusts
or biscuits by melting the butter while rubbing it into the flour,
you instead use a food processor or an electric mixer. Knowing that
your oven bakes 50 degrees too low, you adjust the temperature before
you place your cakes or pie crusts or muffins into it. Knowing that
egg yolks curdle if they get too hot, you remove your Lemon Curd from
its hot water bath at just the right time to keep it creamy and
smooth. And, knowing that cold cream cheese or cold butter won't
blend with cold fruit sweetener, you save yourself much frustration
by letting these ingredients come to room temperature before you
start.

Recipe ******
Although most people think of the recipe as the most essential
:
element, it is really the fourth element of importance in fine baking.
Recipes don't stand on their own. They rely upon your good technique,
your knowledge of your ingredients, and your understanding of the
process for their success.
Here's how to get the most out of your recipes:
Read the recipe completely through before beginning, even if
:
:
its an old favorite. Try to visualize each step of the preparation
and what equipment and ingredients you will need to complete it. I
like to read everything I can about a specific cake or pie or bread,
in a number of sources, before I attempt a new recipe. This way I
become familiar with the many techniques and ideas for preparing,
cooking, decorating and serving it. Then I combine the information
until I feel comfortable with what I am about to do and in what order.
I suggest that as you begin baking and cooking with fruit
:
sweeteners you start with the simpler recipes, such as those for
cookies, sauces, and muffins, and following the recipes exactly.
Then, as you refine your skills, progress to the more elaborate pies,
cakes, and breads, developing your own ideas and variation and
enjoyment in the process. Submitted By JIM WELLER   On   10-11-95

