Title: Galantine of Turkey
Categories: Appetizers, Main dish, Poultry
Yield: 15 servings
MMMMM-----------------------THE GALANTINE----------------------------
-[NY Times] OR
1/4 c  Parsley: fresh , chopped
-[Joy]
1/2 lb Fatback; unsalted, cut into
-strips
1/2 lb Tongue; cooked, cut into
-strips [NY times] OR
1/2 lb Ham strips [Joy]
2    Truffles; sliced
3/4 c  Pistachio nuts
2    Clean linen cloths
Butter
15 lb Turkey
1 lb Veal; ground
1 lb Pork; lean, ground
1 lb Salt pork; cubed
1/4 c  Cognac; or sherry or Madeira
1 c  Heavy cream [NY Times] OR
8    Eggs [Joy]
1 tb Salt
Black pepper to taste
2 ts Worcestershire sauce; opt'l
1 ts Nutmeg
1/4 ts Hot sauce [JW]
1 tb Tarragon; fresh, chopped
MMMMM----------------------THE BROTH/ASPIC---------------------------
1    Sprig thyme
1    Parsley sprig
1    Bay leaf
To the bone broth add:
1    Carrot; chopped
1    Celery rib; chopped
1 sm Onion; chopped
MMMMM-----------------------THE GARNISHES----------------------------
Green and red pepper;
-blanched
Carrot curls
Lemon rind
Hard cooked egg whites
Sauce chaud froid
Aspic
Truffles
Black olives
Scallion or slivered leek
-greens
Bone the turkey. Remove all the meat from the skin. Make a rich broth
from the bones. Cut the meat from the drumsticks and breast into 1/2"
cubes and grind the remaining meat; combine it with the ground veal
and lean pork. Combine the turkey cubes, ground meats, salt pork,
cognac, cream and seasonings.

Lay the turkey skin shell outside down on a flat surface and spread
with the seasoned mixture. Pat the meat into an even rectangle
extending all the way to the edges. Top with alternate rows of
fatback, tongue and truffles. Sprinkle with pistachios. Draw the
edges of the skin together to form a sausage like roll and sew the
edges together.

Generously butter a large piece of linen cloth and place the
galantine on it. Roll it tightly and tie the ends. Then tie loops two
or three times around the middle sections and lengthwise as well to
help it hold it's shape. The roll should be smooth and even. Place
the roll in a large pot, add the vegetables, seasonings and enough
broth to cover. Cover, bring to a boil and simmer gently 1 1/2 hrs.
Let the galantine cool in the liquid. Remove it from the broth.

Unroll the galantine and reroll it in a clean cloth. Weight it down
with a heavy plate for two hours or more, then remove the cloth.
Remove the sewing thread. In the interim make an aspic of the turkey
broth and make the chaud froid.

In decorating any food with aspic make sure the food is very cold and
that the aspic is cooled but still liquid. It should be the
consistency of syrup. Place the galantine on a wire rack in a
roasting pan and set in the freezer til thoroughly chilled but not
frozen. Remove and apply a coating of the chaud froid. Chill and
repeat until covered with a solid glaze. Make flower or other
patterns from the cut up garnishes. Dip the cut ups in aspic and
place on the chaud froid covered galantine. Chill. Cover the
galantine in stages using the same technique as for the chaud froid.

Any chaud froid or aspic that drips off the galantine can be
recaptured, warmed, chilled and reused to finish.

Keep the finished galantine chilled until ready to serve.

Yields: 15 main dish servings or thirty appetizers with toast points.
Makes an elegant centerpiece for a buffet dinner.

Adapted from recipes in The New York Times Cook Book, Craig Claiborne
and in the Joy of Cooking by Jim Weller.
Submitted By JIM WELLER   On   09-25-95

