Title: Grilled Grouper Savoy Grill
Categories: Fish/seafoo, Bbq/grill
Yield: 6 servings
1 c  Oyster mushrooms
1 c  Shiitake mushrooms --
-sliced
1/2 c  Morels -- sliced rounds
1 c  Kennet Square mushrooms --
-sliced
1/4 c  Fresh thyme -- minced
1/4 c  Fresh oregano -- minced
2 oz Clarified butter
42 oz Grouper fillet, thick, cut
-on bias -- cut in 7-oz
-portions
8 oz Butter
24    Fluid ounces  Heavy cream
1 oz Shallots -- minced
6    Fluid ounces  White wine
1 pn Salt -- to taste
1 pn Black pepper -- to taste
8 tb Fresh lemon juice
STEP ONE: Prepare the Sweet Corn and Anaheim Chili Pepper Relish,
Yellow Tomato Concasse, Mushroom Duxelle, Charred Tomato Coulis. See
the recipes for these condiments in this cookbook.

STEP TWO: Cook 1 cup of red lentils in water until just tender. Drain
and reserve until ready to serve. Wash one head of Frisee lettuce and
reserve.

STEP THREE: Preparation of the "Wild Mushroom, Fresh Thyme, and
Oregano Cream Reduction"-- Sweat together the shallots and butter.
Add the white wine and reduce by one third. Add the juice of about
four lemons, cream, salt, and pepper and reduce to a velvety
consistency.

STEP FOUR: In a separate skillet, saute the assortment of mushrooms
in the clarified butter. Add the fresh herbs and add the mushroom
mixture to the cream reduction.

STEP FIVE: Prepare the Grouper-- The grouper filets should be about
seven ounces each, thick and fresh, cut on a bias. Season with salt
and pepper to taste. Coat in clarified butter and grill.

STEP SIX: Assemble and Serve-- Mirror the plates with the reduction
sauce, sprinkle with cooked red lentils. Place the grouper in the
center of the plate. Arrange the duxelle and concasse around the
plate. Put some coulis in the center of the duxelle. Place the Frisee
just under the edge of the grouper. Spoon the relish onto the Frisee.
Flash under the broiler for a few seconds and serve. Garnish with
edible flowers.

: David Leo Banks of Harry's Savoy Grill, Wilmington, DE
Recipe By

Date: 09-29-95 (03:12) (160)
From: Marjorie Scofield
Fido: Recipes

