Title: How to Cook a Steak
Categories: Information, Meats
Yield: 1 info
None
Choose Your Method to Suit the Size of the Steak

Steaks from prime- or choice-grade meat are tender. To retain
moisture and flavor, tender meat needs the dry, intense heat of
grilling, broiling, searing or roasting.

The steak's thickness determines how close the meat needs to be to the
heat. You want to coordinate a nicely seared surface with the right
degree of doneness inside. Cook thin steaks very close to the heat;
thick steaks farther away. For example, you wouldn't broil a 6oz
filet; by the time the surface was seared, the inside would be
overcooked. Pan-searing or roasting in a heavy skillet would be a
better choice; these give the meat more contact with hot metal. Some
cuts get the best results from a combination of cooking methods.

Here are some sample cooking techniques and time; all produce a rare
to medium-rare steak.

~ 12-Ounce Filet Steak:
Season the entire filet with salt and freshly ground pepper. Broil or
grill it 4 inches from the flame. Cook each side for 3 minutes, and
then turn again and cook each side for 2 minutes, for a total of 10
minutes. Let it rest for 3 to 5 minutes before serving to allow the
juices to redistribute.

~ 10-Ounce New York Strip or Rib-Eye:
Heat a cast-iron skillet until it's smoking hot. Season the steak on
both sides with salt and freshly ground pepper. Sear the steak in the
skillet for 1 1/2 minutes on each side. Don't use oil; the steak's
fat will provide enough. Remove it from the pan and let it rest for 3
to 5 minutes before serving.

~ 16-Ounce New York Strip or Rib-Eye:

Heat a grill until very hot and heat the oven to 400 F. Season both
sides of the steak heavily with salt and freshly ground pepper. Put
the steak on the grill and cook it for 4 minutes on each side,
turning once. Remove it, allow to rest for 10 minutes, and then put
it in the hot oven for 4 minutes. Remove it, let it rest for 3 to 5
minutes, slice, and serve.

Chef Richard Chamberlain
Chamberlain's Prime Chop House
Dallas, TX

Fine Cooking
Aug-Sept 1995
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   11-11-95

