Title: How Sweet It Is!
Categories: Chocolate, Information
Yield: 1 servings
Content
By Sheldon Margen, MD, and Dale A. Olgar. Originally posted in the Los
Angeles times, but appeared in a paper here in Canada.

The big holiday season is fading fast as we head for the less intense
celebrations like Valentine's Day and Easter.  For us, this always
brings up the subject of chocolate.  The spring festivals are
traditionally a big time for the cocolate makers of the world.  The
following are some "good-news" items about chocolate.

*There are some choclate lovers who claim that eating chocolate feels
like being in love and, in fact, there is some evidence that when you
eat chocolate the brain produces some fo the same complex chemical
substances it does when the love bug bites.

*chocolate does not cause acne.  A number of reliable studies have
shown that even quite large amounts of chocolate will not produce an
acne attack. Some people are allergic to chocolate amd may break out
in a rash resembling acne, which it isn't.

*Chocolate itself does not cause tooth decay.  It is the sugar and
other sweet things mixed with the chocolate that are the culprits.

*Chocolate does not have a great deal of caffeine.  An eight ounce
cup of cocoa has about 6 mg (about 1/15th of the amount in a cup of
instant coffee)

*Chocolate does not contain cholesterol because it is a plant
product. When milk is added, however, it will contribute a small
amount of cholesterol.

*The sweeter the chocolate, the lower the fat.  Chocolate is high in
fat, but the lighter, sweeter chocolates contain more sugar, which
dilutes the fat and brings down the calorie count.

*Although chocolate is very high in fat and the fat is largely
saturated, it does not seem to boost blood cholesterol levels ass
much as animal fats do.

AND NOW FOR THE BAD NEWS.............

*Some people who tend to suffer from heartburn may find that chocolate
tends to make it worse.

*Chocolates contains substances known as tyramines which are thought
to induce headaches in sensitive individuals.

*Chocolate is certainly NOT a health food - but it's not poison
either. Use a little moderations and common sense and enjoy chocolate
from time to time.

Origin: The Province, food section, February 8, 1993. Shared by:
Sharon Stevens.

Believe it or not:  The sweeter the chocolate, the lower the fat

Date: 09-28-95 (00:00) (164)
From: Sharon Stevens
Fido: Home Co

