Title: Increasing and Decreasing Recipes - Part 1
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 info
MMMMM----------------------------NONE---------------------------------
þ Recipes you can increase and decrease with few problems are
casseroles, sauces, cookies, muffins, most drinks and appetizers,
most soups and vegetables.

þ In top-of-the-stove cooking, a doubled recipe need less liquid and a
halved one needs more because of differences in evaporation. When you
double one of these recipes, don't quite double the liquid; when you
cut a recipe in half, add a little MORE than half the liquid.

þ Never increase a recipe by more than 3 times. Now and then you can
manage to quadruple, but you can't count on it working out.

þ Instead of cutting a cake or bread recipe in half, make the whole
thing, bake it in a large pan or two smaller ones and freeze the half
you don't need.

þ Don't double cake recipes or souffl‚s that use more than 6 eggs.
Make them twice. Home kitchen equipment can't mix large quantities of
delicate ingredients without overworking them. By the time a large
amount of egg white has been folded in, it has lost its air.

þ To increase a recipe that serves 4 to serve, for example, 22 ÄÄ
divide 22 by the 4 of your recipe. Multiple each ingredient in the
recipe by the answer you get. (Since 22 divided by 4 equals 5.5, you
would multiply each ingredient by 5.5)

: Things You NEVER double or triple when you increase a recipe:

SEASONING: Season to taste, slowly, tasting after each addition. (Use
the box for guidance only. Note how the proportion goes down!)

To Increase Seasonings

If everything
Multiply
seasoning by:
else is
multiplied by:

1«
2

2
3

2«
4 *

* You're flirting with danger.
Don't try it with a complex recipe. SUGAR: Don't
increase the small amount used to enhance flavor
(in tomato sauce, for example).
:

Don't increase the pinch or ¬ teaspoon used in sweet
recipes. The pinch will still do it.
SALT:
:

When you double a recipe, use only 1/3 more fat or oil.
If you use more, the result will be greasy.
FAT:
:

YEAST:    If you double a recipe, use only 1« times the yeast.

Figuring Cooking Time

When you alter a recipe, the original cooking time no longer applies.
Use it only as a guideline, and cook toward the result you want ÄÄ a
browned cake that pulls away from the sides of the pan; a roast that
has the right internal temperature; a casserole that is brown and
bubbles around the edges.

If the grocery store doesn't have the size meat or poultry your recipe
calls for, buy the closest thing. For example, if you need a 4 pound
chicken and the meat counter has only 3 or 5 pound chickens, you're
all right with either of those. Follow your recipe. Use all the other
specified amounts of ingredients, but adjust the pot size and cooking
time.

The Kitchen Companion
by Polly Clingerman
ISBN 0-942320-44-1
pg 68, 245-249
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   10-01-95

