Title: Layered Polenta and Curried Vegetables
Categories: Main dish, Vegetables, Tomatoes
Yield: 6 servings
MMMMM-------------------------VEGETABLES------------------------------
1 sm Butternut squash
(abt 1 1/4 lb)
Quartered, seeded, peeled
Cut in 1/4" dice
2 tb Garlic, minced
1 tb Ginger, finely chopped
2 lb Plum tomatoes, peeled
Seeded, coarsely chopped
With their juices or
2 1/2 c  Canned Italian peeled
Tomatoes, coarsely chopped
1 tb Mint, coarsely chopped
1/4 c  Pecorino Romano cheese
Grated (abt 3/4oz)
1/3 c  Extra-virgin olive oil
1 1/4 ts Curry powder
1 lb Mushrooms
(shiitakes or creminis)
Stems removed,
Caps cut in 1/3" dice
1 tb Oregano, coarsely chopped
Salt and pepper
1 md Leek, white and light green
Halved lengthwise
Sliced crosswise 1/4" thick
2 md Zucchini
Cut in 1/3" dice
2 md Red bell peppers
Cut in 1/4" dice
MMMMM--------------------------POLENTA-------------------------------
3/4 c  Polenta (pref coarse)
3/4 c  Pecorina Romano cheese
3 c  Vegetable stock
3 c  Half-and-half
3/4 c  Semolina
Note: you can make a simple vegetable stock with the trimmings from
the vegetables. Use the leek greens, zucchini and bell pepper
trimmings and shiitake stems. Combine 3 cups of vegetable trimmings
with 1 bay leaf and 5 cups of water  in a medium saucepan. Bring to a
boil and simmer over moderately low heat for 40 minutes. Strain the
stock; you should have about 3 cups. If necessary, boil to reduce to
3 cups.

1. Prepare the vegetables: Heat 1 tbs olive oil in a large non-stick
skillet. Stir in « tsp curry powder and cook over moderately high
heat for 30 seconds. Add the mushrooms, 1 tsp oregano, 1 tsp salt and
« tsp black pepper and cook, stirring, for 1 minute. Lower the heat
to moderate and cook, stirring occasionally, until the mushrooms are
tender, about 5 minutes. Transfer to a large bowl.

2. Wipe out the skillet, add 1 tbs olive oil and heat. Stir in « tsp
curry powder and cook over moderate heat for 30 seconds. Add the leek
and cook, stirring occasionally, until wilted, about 1 minute. Add
the zucchini, 1 tsp oregano, « tsp salt and ¬ tsp black pepper and
cook for 5 minutes, stirring occasionally. Raise the heat to
moderately high. Add the bell peppers and cook, stirring
occasionally, until all of the vegetables are tender, about 5
minutes. Add to the mushrooms.

3. Wipe out the skillet, add 2 more tbs olive oil and heat. Stir in
the remaining ¬ tsp curry powder and cook over moderate heat for 30
seconds. Add the butternut squash, the remaining 1 tbs oregano, « tsp
salt and ¬ tsp black pepper and cook, stirring, for 2 minutes. Stir
in 3 tbs water and cook, stirring, until the squash is tender and the
water has evaporated, about 5 minutes. Add to the vegetables.

4. Wipe out the skillet, add the remaining 4 tsp olive oil and heat.
Add the garlic and ginger and cook over moderate heat, stirring, until
softened, 1-2 minutes. Add the tomatoes, mint, « tsp slat and a pinch
of black pepper and cook, stirring, until the tomatoes are softened
but still juicy, about 5 minutes. Add to the cooked vegetables and
stir in the cheese.

5. Prepare the polenta: In a large heavy saucepan, bring the vegetable
stock and half-and-half to a boil over moderate heat. Reduce the heat
to low and cook, stirring constantly with a wooden spoon, until the
polenta is soft and creamy, about 15 minutes. Remove the pan from the
heat. Stir in « cup of the cheese and season with coarse salt and
white pepper. Immediately spoon the polenta onto a large baking sheet
and spread it out to a «-inch-thick layer. Let cool, then cover and
refrigerate until chilled.

(If you don't care about having distinct layers, make the lasagna
with soft polenta just out of the saucepan.)

6. Preheat the oven to 425øF. Generously oil 2 large baking sheets
and heat them in the oven for 5 minutes. Cut the polenta into 8 equal
rectangles. Transfer the polenta rectangles to the heated baking
sheets and bake for about 20 minutes, or until firm on top. Lower the
oven temperature to 350øF.

7. Lightly oil an8x12-inch nonreactive baking dish. Arrange 4 of the
polenta rectangles in the prepared baking dish and spread half of the
cooked vegetables on top. Cover with the remaining polenta squares
and top with the remaining vegetables.

8. Sprinkle the lasagna with the remaining ¬ cup cheese. Cover
loosely with foil and bake for 30 minutes. Remove the foil and
continue baking for about 30 minutes longer or until the lasagna is
heated through. Serve hot.

Fine Cooking    November 1995
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   11-01-95

