Title: Lumpia with Sweet Potatoes
Categories: Filipino, Meats, Appetizers, Potatoes
Yield: 6 servings
1 c  Cabbage, cut into 1" squares
1 c  Cubed sweet potatoes
Salt to taste
1    Stalk celery, finely chopped
20    Lumpia wrappers (recipe
-below)
Lumpia  sauce (recipe below)
1 c  Pork, finely cubed
6 tb Lard
3    Cloves garlic, minced
1 md Onion sliced
1/2 c  Diced bean curd
1 c  Raw shelled deveined shrimp
1 c  String beans, cut into 1"
-pieces
MMMMM----------------------LUMPIA WRAPPERS---------------------------
5 c  Water
Pork fat
3 c  Flour
1 tb Salt
MMMMM------------------------LUMPIA SAUCE-----------------------------
1/2 c  Soy sauce
1/2 c  Brown sugar
6 tb Cornstarch
1 c  Water
Boil the pork in a pot until tender and the fat comes out.  Remove
the pork from the pot and drain.  Put the lard in a large skillet and
saute the pork, garlic, onion and bean curd. Add the shrimp, string
beans, cabbage, sweet potatoes and a little water. Season with the
salt and cook over medium heat until tender. Set aside on a platter
to cool, add the celery on top.

LUMPIA WRAPPERS

Sift the flour into a bowl. In another bowl, mix the salt with the
water. Add 1 cup of salted water to the flour to make a stiff dough.
Beat the dough hard against the sides of the mixing bowl to soften
and make it elastic. Add more of the water to soften the dough.
Continue beating and adding water until the mixture becomes very
elastic and has a consistency of heavy cream. Use only enough water
to achieve this consistency. Heat a frying pan greased with pork fat
and pour in about 2 tablespoons of the thin batter, tilting the pan
to spread the batter as thin as possible. Turn the wrapper when it
can be freed from the frying pan And fry quickly on the other side.
Remove from pan. Do the same with the rest of the batter.

To serve, put 2 tablespoons of lumpia mixture in each wrapper and
fold into a tight roll. Serve with lumpia sauce.

LUMPIA SAUCE Cook over low heat until thick, stirring constantly.
Remove from heat and let cool.
Submitted By ROBERT MILES   On   10-31-95

