Title: Making Sausage
Categories: Sausage, Tasteofhome
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM------------------------THE MIXTURE-----------------------------
-allow fat and meat to feed
-through with very
l  Assistance from the wooden
-tamper.
4 ea Grind a bit of fat first to
-grease the grinder; finish
-grinding with
1 ea Trim meat & fat off all
-gristle and connective
-tissue.
2 ea Cut meat into long, narrow
-strips; freeze for about
-30 min. before
Grinding.
3 ea In an electric grinder,
a piece of bread to remove last bits of meat. 5. After mixture is
ground, stir it over ice, or refrigerate it for about an hour to make
it easier to handle. The Casing: 1. You will need about 2 yards of
casing for each of the recipes. 2. Wash casing to rid it of salt by
slipping one end over the faucet and running warm water through it.
3. Cut into manageable lengths, about 2ft.  If there are holes in
casing, tie them closed or cut them off. 4.  Soak in tepid water for
about 1 hr. 5. Wring out the casing before filling it. Filling the
Casing: 1. Attach stuffing horn to grinder. 2. Place one end of
prepared casing over the horn.  Gradually push all of the casing onto
the horn, leaving a 2 inch overlap below the horn. Tie a knot in this
overlapping end. 3. With your right hand, feed ground mixture into
grinder, a bit at a time. 4. Achor casing on top of the horn with
your left thumb, allowing casing to unroll as mixture is extruded. 5.
Stop filling process occasionally to mold meat into casing.  Pierce
any air bubbles with a needle. 6. Do not pack too full, or it will
burst as the filling expands during cooking. 7. After casing has been
filled, remove it, with the horn still attached to one end, from the
machine. 8. Push any remaining sausage through horn with a spoon
handle. 9. Take off horn and knot casing 10. Leftover casing can be
repacked with coarse salt and refrigerated. Dividing into Links: 1.
Knot three-inch pieces of string around sausage at equally spaced
intervals, or twist one measured link clockwise, and the next one
counterclockwise so they don't unwind. 2. For individual sausages,
compress meat so there is one-half inch of empty casing between
links. Tie a knot at each end of the space and cut between. 3. Divide
and cut sausages as you go. 4. The tighter sausages are tied, the
more they curve. Drying: To develop their flavor, hang sausages to
dry for 12-24 hours on a hanger or pasta rack in a cool spot  They
can also be dried on a rack in the refrigerator. Cooking: Sausages
are toughened and dried out by overcooking. For juciest presentation,
poach them gently in water, stock, wine or beer. Test for doneness
when a sample slice reveals they are bown through, or a meat
thermometer reads 165F, or their juices run clear when pricked.
Keeping: To keep leftover sausages plump, place them in cold water
while they are still warm. Let cool in water. Uncooked sausages will
keep for three days in the refrigerator, or up to 3 months in the
freezer. Shared by: Bobbie Kopf, Oct/95.

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   10-07-95

