Title: Meat Stromboli (Stuffed Bread)
Categories: Breads, Italian, Sausage, Vegetables
Yield: 1 servings
1/4 lb Provolone cheese, sliced
1 c  Sweet pepper slices, roasted
1/4 lb Pepperoni, wide, sliced
1/4 lb Mozzarella cheese, sliced
2 tb Butter, melted
Poppy seeds (I use sesame
-seeds)
1 pk Yeast, dry
2 ts Sugar
1/3 c  Water, warm (105 degrees F)
4 c  Flour, unbleached
3 tb Butter, in pieces
1 ts Salt
1 c  Ice water, without cubes
1/4 lb Genoa salami, sliced
SALLIE'S NOTES: I made this, substituting about 3 or 4 Tablespoons
sun-dried tomatoes (in oil, drained) for the roasted peppers.  It wasd
unbelievably delicious!

Preheat oven to 200 degrees for 15 minutes and turn off.  Combine
yeast, sugar and warm water in a small mixing bowl.  Set aside for 5
minutes until foamy.  In the workbowl of a food processor, add flour,
butter pieces and salt.  Process for 20 seconds.  Add ice water to
yeast.  With the processor running, add yeast-water mixture
gradually, until all of the moisture is absorbed and the dough leaves
the side of the bowl. Process for an additional 60 seconds.  Transfer
dough from the workbowl to a large greased mixing bowl. Cover with a
kitchen towel and place in warm off oven. Allow to rise until
doubled, approximately 1 1/2 hours.

Once doubled, punch down dough and transfer to a floured rolling
surface. With quick, hard strokes, roll dough into a large rectangle,
approximately 1/2 inch thick.  Layer the meats, roast peppers and
cheeses evenly down the center leaving approximately three inches of
exposed dough on either side. With a sharp knife, slice the exposed
dough into 1 inch wide fingers, leaving approximately 1/2 inch
surrounding the meat. Alternating side to side, overlap the dough
fingers over the meat to create a braided loaf. Pinch the ends to
seal.

Tranfer to a large cookie sheet, cover with a kitchen towel and
return to the warmed oven.  Allow to rise until doubled,
approximately 45 minutes. Brush loaf with melted butter and sprinkle
with poppy seeds. Bake at 350 degrees for 35 to 40 minutes or until
loaf is well browned and hollow sounding when thumped.

Keywords: Stuffed breads, Sun dried, Tomatoes Servings: 8 Cooking
Time: 00:35 FROM
:    Diane Simms Sallie's notes: I made this, substituting about 3 or
4 Tbsp chopped sun

Date: 10-03-95 (16:05) (159)
From: Sallie Krebs
Fido: Cooking

