Title: Mom's Veggie and Tomato Pasta Sauce
Categories: Salsa/sauce, Italian, Pasta/rice
Yield: 1 batch
1 cn Tomato paste, 6-ounce
1 cn Tomato sauce, 8-ounce
1 cn Italian tomatoes, 16-ounce
1 sm Hot chili pepper, minced
1 ts Dried oregano
1 ts Dried rosemary
Salt & black pepper to taste
1 bn Broccoli (2 or 3 stalks)
1/2 c  Olive oil (more if needed)
2 cl Garlic, minced
2 md Onions, chopped
1    Green bell pepper, chopped
1 md Carrot, chopped
1    Zucchini, chopped
Particularly welcomed by the health-conscious when served on whole
wheat spaghetti.  For a smooth, velvety sauce, finely chop the
vegetables and eook the sauce at least 2 hours.  Coarser chopping and
shorter cooking make a chunkier sauce.  Either way, it's a hearty
dinner.

Cut off and discard tough bottom stems of broccoli.  Peel and chop
remaining stems, cut tops into small florettes, and chop leaves.  Set
aside.

Heat 5 tablespoons oil in large skillet or Dutch oven.  Add garlic,
onions and pepper and cook 7 to 8 minutes to brown.  Remove to bowl
with slotted spoon.  Cook carrot and zucchini 5 minutes and remove to
bowl. Drain oil from bowl back into skillet.  Add broccoli and more
oil if needed. Cook 8 to 10 minutes, and add to bowl. Add 3
tablespoons oil and then the tomato paste. Cook about 5 minutes,
stirrmg occasionally. The paste should turn from bright red to a
dark, brownish red. Turn heat to low. Stir in tomato sauce, tomatoes
and seasonmg, while breaking up tomatoes with a wooden spoon.  Retum
cooked vegetables to skillet.  Cover and cook over low heat for 1 to
3 hours, stirring occasionally to prevent sticking. Gamish with
grated cheese, if desired.

The secret of a full-bodied, old-fashioned brownish-red tomato sauce
is thorough, patient browning of vegetables and tomato sauce in
generous amounts of oil.

Adding a few drops of olive oil to the boiling water when cookmg
pasta will help keep the water from boiling over. ** Mom's recipe
card file **

Posted by  The WEE Scot  --  paul macGregor
Submitted By PAUL MACGREGOR   On   10-22-95

