Title: Momos (Tibetan Steamed Dumplings)
Categories: Meats, Stove top, Asian, Pasta/rice
Yield: 12 servings
MMMMM---------------------------DOUGH--------------------------------
1 c  Water
3 c  All purpose flour
MMMMM------------------------MEAT FILLING-----------------------------
-or to taste
2 ea Green onion; chopped
2 tb Fresh cilantro; chopped
-or to taste
Salt
Salsa, Vietnamese hot sauce
-or Vietnamese soybean sauce
1 lb Extra lean ground beef
1 ea Onion; chopped
1/2 lb Daikon, spinach or cabbage
-chopped *
1 ea Garlic clove; minced
-(one teaspoon)
1/2 ts Fresh ginger; grated
TO PREPARE DOUGH Mix flour and the water; knead into a ball. Let it
rise under a napkin to soften, about 1/2 hour.

Bring a large pot of water to a boil. Cut dough into small chunks and
roll into 12 to 18 small flat circles.

TO PREPARE FILLING AND ASSEMBLE Mash the ground beef, onion, daikon,
garlic, ginger, green onions and cilantro together. Season with salt
to taste.

Place a spoonful or two of filling on a dough circle, bring the edges
together and pinch them closed.

Place momos in a steaming basket or on a rack over boiling water and
cook on high for 30 minutes.  Serve hot with salsa, Vietnamese hot
sauce and Vietnamese soybean sauce.

NOTE: * Daikon is a mild white radish available in the produce
section of Oriental markets and many supermarkets.

NOTE: Vietnamese hot sauce or Vietnamese soybean sauce is available in
Oriental markets.

Makes 12 to 18

Recipe from Jigme Topgyal, a Tibetan who comes from the south-cental
Asian land where for centuries his people have lived high above the
rest of the world in a mostly barren landscape dominated by the
majestic Himalayas and other towering mountains. He often makes
Tibet's national dish and serves them with a mild tomato salsa,
"Tsal", made from chopped tomatoes, cilantro, green onions and
garlic; and a Vietnamese hot sauce and a Vietnamese soybean sauce.
They are eaten as a finger food or with chopsticks. In addition to
the meat filling in this recipe, he also uses chicken, or a
vegetable/tofu mixture.

In his native Tibet, these would be made with a flour ground from
roasted barley called "Tsampa". The Chicken filling usually is made
with ground chicken mashed with onions, daikon, fresh ginger, garlic
and cilantro. The Vegetarian filling contains chopped cabbage, bok
choy, tofu, green onion, ginger and garlic.

He recently started selling momos at Portland Saturday Market at his
Tibetan Momos booth.

Source: Oregonian FoodDay, July 18, 1995  Written by Merle Alexander
of the Oregonian staff.
Typos by Dorothy Flatman, 1995
Submitted By DOROTHY FLATMAN   On   10-25-95

