Title: Nougat #2 [Joy]
Categories: Candies, French, Italian, Nuts/grains
Yield: 1 1/4 lb
1 c  Blanched almonds
1/2 c  Blanched pistachios
1/2 c  Candied cherries, chopped,
-optional
Butter for the pan
Confectioner's sugar
6 tb Sugar
1 tb Water
1/3 c  Light corn syrup
1/4 c  Egg whites
1 c  Light corn syrup
1 c  Sugar
2 tb Butter, cut in small chunks
Southern France and Italy are famous for luscious nougats with
distinctive flavors due to regional honey differences. So, why no
honey in this recipe? Honey is an extremely variable substance. If
substituted for sugar in jams, jellies and candies a higher degree of
heat is required. In candies, more persistent beating is required and
careful storage against atmospheric moisture.

This is a two part process and an electric beater is helpful. First
cook in a 2 qt saucepan the sugar, water and corn syrup. Blend over
low heat and stir until boiling. Cover and cook for about 3 min until
all the steam has washed down the crystals which may have formed on
the sides of the pan when stirring. Cook uncovered over medium
without stirring to the soft ball stage- 238 deg F. Remove the pan
from the heat and let stand while you beat in a mixer the egg whites
until very stiff. Add the hot syrup gradually to the egg whites,
continuing to beat for at least 5 min until the mass thickens.

Blend in a heavy 1 qt pan and stir over low heat until it boils the
corn syrup and sugar. Stop stirring, cover and steam 3 min, then
uncover and boil rapidly without stirring  to 285. Remove from the
heat and let stand until syrup stops bubbling. Now pour the second
mixture into the first and beat until well combined. Beat in the
butter and add the nuts [and cherries]. Pour into an 8 by 8 buttered
pan dusted with confectioner's sugar or lined with baker's wafer
paper. Let sit in a cool place at least 12 hours. If it is hard to
get out of the pan, release the sides with a knife and then hold the
bottom of the pan over heat and invert over a cutting block for
slicing.

From the Joy of Cooking. Posted by Jim Weller.
Submitted By JIM WELLER   On   10-26-95

