Title: Penn & Teller Dessert
Categories: Desserts, Kids, Holiday
Yield: 1 servings
No Ingredients Found
Here is the outline for something I saw this morning on Geraldo (by
accident) that was done by Penn & Teller.  It's more of a macabre
show-off desert, but I laughed my ass off when I saw it. Okay, start
off by making some Jell-O, preferably strawberry or cherry or some
other flavor that's naturally red.  But, use two to three times as
much Jell-O mix as you normally would, to thicken up the consistency.
After this is mixed, stir in some cool whip, and pour it into your
favorite standard party mold (the dome kind would be good).

Get a CLEAN plastic bag (inside and out) and place in it some Karo
syrup. Now add something like a very dar red wine, or grape juice.
What you want is a semi-thick VERY dark red (opaque) liquid which
looks not unlike blood. Starting to get the picture yet? kay, now
place this bag in the mold, so that the bag is still floating on top.
Keep in mind that you want the Jell-O plus the bag to completely fill
the mold, but have a level surface, as this thing is going to flip
over later on. Put it in the fridge, and allow it to chill and set.
When you take it out of the refrigerator, you should decorate it a
little. Try drizeling some chocolate glaze on top and poping a couple
of strawberries cherries on top of this. Allow to set if necessary,
and then bring it out to your dinner guests. At this point, your
dinner guests will probably be oo'ing and ah'ing over this rather
nice dessert you've brought out to them.  Make sure you've got that
big pointy butcher knife in one hand as you set this beauty down on
the table. Now you get to play Norman Bates:  cut into the side of
this, making sure go deep enough to cut into the bag real wide.  As
you continue to cut out a piece of the geltin mold, the bag will leak
into this, and your bewildered guests will think your dessert is
_BLEEDING_. Not to disappoint them, cut out one of these bloody
pieces of geletin and plop it down on a plate. If you're lucky, it
will look like a recently-extracted body organ. Yes, this is gross.
Yes, I wouldn't bring this to the typical dinner party. Yes, I
probably have a *very* warped sense of humor. But, I laughed quite
loudly when I saw this being done by Penn & Teller. At the very
least, it might be fun for a Halloween party... From:
aragon@acm.rpi.edu (Greg Pratt) Shared by: Sam Lefkowitz, April/95.
Log Of Sam Lefkowitz (S.S. Mein Kind)

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   09-27-95

