Title: Philippine Lumpia
Categories: Filipino, Poultry, Meats
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM---------------------YIELD: 12 SERVINGS--------------------------
1 sm Onion, peeled and cut
-crosswise into paper thin
-slices
2 ts Finely chopped garlic
1 1/2 lb Fresh green string beans,
-trimmed and cut diagonally
-into 1/4" lengths
1/4 lb Fresh bean sprouts, washed
-and husks removed
1 c  Finely diced celery
2 ea Tb Soy sauce
Oil for deep frying
2 lb Chicken, cut in serving
-pieces
1/2 lb Lean boneless pork butt, cut
-in 2-3 pieces
1 md Onion, peel, quarter
2 ea Celery tops
1 md Bay leaf
2 ts Salt
2 c  Water
1 sm Green cabbage
1/4 lb Slab bacon, trimmed of rind
-and cut in 1/4" dice
MMMMM----------------------LUMPIA WRAPPERS---------------------------
Vegetable oil
2 c  All purpose flour
2 c  Cold water
Combine the chicken, pork, quartered onion, celery tops, bay leaf and
1 teaspoon salt in a heavy 3-4 quart saucepan. Pour in the water and
bring to a boil over high heat. Reduce heat to low, cover tightly and
simmer 20-30 minutes, or until chicken and pork are almost tender and
show only slight resistance when pierced with the point of a small
sharp knife. Remove chicken and pork, and when cool enough to handle,
bone and skin the chicken and cut the meat and pork into 1/4" dice.
Strain the broth and reserve it. Remove and discard the tough outer
leaves of the cabbage, cut the cabbage into quarters. Cut out the
cores and slice the quarters crosswise into 1/4" wide strips. In a
heavy 12" skillet, cook the bacon over moderate heat, stirring
frequently until it is crisp and has rendered all its fat. With a
slotted spoon, transfer the bacon to paper towels to drain. Cook
sliced onion and garlic in the bacon fat for about 5 minutes until
the onion is soft and transparent but not brown. Add pork and chicken
and stir 1-2 minutes, until the meat browns slightly. Add each
vegetable in the following order: green beans, bean sprouts, celery
and cabbage. Add the bacon bits, 1/2 the reserved broth, remaining
salt and the soy sauce, turning constantly with a spoon, cook over
medium heat 3 minutes longer. Transfer contents of the skillet to a
colander and drain 10-15 minutes. Discard the liquid. (Filling will
keep at room temp. 2-3 hours). Assembly: shape about 1/3 cup of
filling into a cylinder about 5" long and 1" diameter, place in the
center of a wrapper, leave about 1 1/2" of the wrapper exposed at
each side. Roll the wraapper around the filling, tucking the ends
inside as you roll. Heat oil in a deep fat fryer to about 375 deg F,
and fry each lumpia about 2 minutes, or until they are golden brown
and crisp. Drain on paper towels and serve immediately, or keep hot
and serve. Wrappers: Combine flour and water and mix until it forms a
smooth paste, the consistency of a heavy cream. Set a heavy 8"
skillet over moderate heat for about 30 seconds. Dip a pastry brush
in the oil and spread a light film over the bottom and sides of the
skillet. Then immerse the tip of a 2" wide paintbrush into the
batter, and with 5-6 overlapping strokes, cover the bottom of the
skillet. Cook for a few seconds until it begins to curl away from the
sides of the skillet. Lift the wrapper and transfer to a strip of
lightly floured waxed paper. May be kept at room temp. no more that 2
hours. Source: Pacific and Southeast Asian Cooking

TO ALL  Submitted By TAMMY BLANDINO  SUBJ LUMPIA    On   10-30-95

