Title: Poaching Salmon
Categories: Information, Fish/seafoo
Yield: 1 info
None
Salmon is a classic choice for poaching not only for its appealing
color, but also because the large and even "grain: of its flesh gives
it a superb texture. The rich oils contained within salmon help to
keep the fish moist. Salmon is particularly suited to being serve
slightly chilled; its assertive flavor compensates for the muting
effects of colder temperature. However, you'll enjoy salmon's fullest
flavor if you serve it just below room temperature.

Keep in mind that poaching means cooking not at a boil or even a
simmer, but at a point just below a simmer, around 180øF. With a
little experience, you'll be able to recognize this temperature level
from the appearance of imminent movement of the court bouillon and
the lazy evaporation of the liquid at the surface.

Perhaps the best way to prepare salmon that's to be eaten chilled is
in a court bouillon (pronounce koor boo-YAHN). The term comes from
the French; court means short and bouillon is derived form the verb
"to boil". Court bouillon is "short" because it's made primarily of
vegetables and herbs, which means it cooks mush more quickly than
stock that are built from meat and poultry. Court bouillon is most
often used as a poaching liquid for fish or shellfish, and sometimes
for poultry or brains.

Traditional recipes call for a fairly standard combination of
ingredients; water, onion, carrot, thyme, bay leaf, and vinegar or
wine (red or white, depending on what is to be cooked) are constants.
A court bouillon destined for poaching fish should always contain a
good amount of salt; without it, the fish will taste bland. Add about
2 tbs salt per quart of water. Add wine or vinegar only after the
vegetables have cooked in the hot liquid for 12-15 minutes; the
acidity of both of these ingredients inhibits the vegetables from
cooking and releasing their flavor completely.

No matter how many aromatic ingredients you add, a court bouillon has
only a soft influence on what's being cooked in it, so add plenty of
herbs and vegetables.

~ Fennel goes particularly well with fish; use the tough outer stalks
and feathery tops of a fennel bulb.

~ Celery tops are a good addition, as are the green parts of leeks or
scallions.

~ Parsley or other soft herbs, such as basil or tarragon are sometimes
added, but not chervil; its meek flavor would be lost. Don't add
strong herbs, such as rosemary or sage; they can overpower the taste
of the fish. The one exception is oregano, which is particularly good
with striped sea bass.

~ Lemongrass has an exceptional aroma when infused in hot liquids and
is very effective in penetrating fish, as are spearmint and lemon
thyme.

~ Experiment with more exotic flavors, such as ginger or coriander.

The technique for poaching fish differs depending on whether it is
whole or sliced. Slices or fish cook much more rapidly than whole
fish. Because of the shorter exposure to the court bouillon, the
broth for cooking sliced fish should be simmered before adding the
fish so that the maximum amount of flavor has been released from the
vegetables and herbs. To do this, cook the vegetables in a little oil
or butter over medium heat until they're soft before moistening them
with water. Then add the herbs - hardy ones at the start, more
delicate ones just before you add the fish. After the court bouillon
has developed a rich flavor, drop the sliced fish into the hot broth.
If the sliced fish is put into cool broth and heated gradually, much
of its flavor would escape into the surrounding liquid. Adding the
fish to hot court bouillon helps to concentrate inside the slice all
the flavor contained within it.

Traditionally, recipes for poaching whole fish call for preparing the
court bouillon ahead of time and allowing it to cool before immersing
the fish. Another way to do it is salt the cool water, add the raw
aromatics and the fish, and slowly bring it all up to poaching
temperature. Since whole fish is less permeable than sliced, loss of
flavor is not a concern. More important, after cooking, whole fish is
returned to the cooled court bouillon and allowed to stand overnight.
During this period, the fish has a chance to rest in its own released
juices, as well as to absorb more thoroughly the aromas of the court
bouillon. Classic French cookbooks warn that immersion in boiling
court bouillon may cause a rapid shrinking and bursting of the flesh.
You won't have this problem with salmon; however, keep it in mind
when poaching more delicate types of fish.

A whole fish is cooked when it reaches 130øF at its thickest point.
The best way to test the fish is to use an instant-read thermometer.
Remove the fish right away to avoid overcooking. Now add the wine to
the broth. This keeps the wine much fresher tasting and reduces the
temperature of the court bouillon, bringing it closer to the point
when the fish may be replaced and stored.

Fine Cooking
August-September 1995
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   11-07-95

