Title: Pollo Alla Cacciatora (chicken cacciatora)+
Categories: Poultry, Italian
Yield: 6 servings
2/3 c  Dry white wine
1/3 c  Yellow onion, thinly sliced
1    Green pepper, seeds removed
-cut into strips
1 md Carrot, sliced very thinly
1/2    Celery stalk, cut into thin
-strips
1 cl Garlic, peeled and minced
2/3 c  Tomatoes (Italian, if you
-have them) with juice
Splash of olive oil
1    Chicken fryer (2 1/2 to 3
-lbs.) disjointed and
-skineed
3 tb Vegetable oil
1 c  All-purpose flour, spread
-on a dinner plate
Salt
Freshly ground pepper
-or instead of salt and
-pepper mix accent into
-the flour
1. Wash the chicken pieces in cold running water and pat dry with
paper towels.

2. Use a very large skillet or 2 if you have a lot of chicken. Just
so you don't crowd the chicken. Heat the skillet and then add the oil
with heat moderately high. Turn the chicken pieces in the flour in
which you have mixed in the accent if this is the seasoning of your
choice. Shake off the surplus flour and place chciken in skillet,
skin side down (if it has skin.) When one side is golden brown turn
to other side. When nicely browned on all sides, transfer them to a
warm platter and sprinkle on the salt and pepper at this time if you
have not used the accent.

3. Tip the skillet and draw off most of the fat with a spoon. Turn
the heat up to high, add the wine and boil rapidly till it is reduced
by about half its original volume. Scrape up and loosen any cooking
residue in the pan. Lower the heat to medium and add the sliced onion
and cook for about 5 minutes stirring 2 or 3 times. Add the rest of
the vegetables and saute for about 2 or 3 minutes. Put the chicken in
an ovenprooof casserole and pour over the sauce and vegetables. You
can put in a splash of olive oil at this time if you wish. Cook at
375 degrees for 1 hour to 1 hour and 15 minutes.

4. Transfer chicken to a warm serving platter. If the sauce is too
thin, pour it into a pan and boil briskly until it thickens, stirring
as it boils. Pour the sauce over the chicken and serve over rice (a
mixture of wild and brown rice is nice.)

Mary Riemerman
Submitted By MARY RIEMERMAN   On   10-08-95

