Title: Quick Tips - Dec 95
Categories: Information
Folding Egg Whites Gently
Yield: 1 info

Fit a handheld mixer with only one beater, set it at the lowest
speed, and beat the egg whites into the mixture with a folding
motion. This method is thorough but gentle enough to keep the whites
from deflating.

Making Thin Sugar Cookies

Roll out the dough on a cookie sheet covered with parchment paper,
cut the cookies with the desired cutter, top with another sheet of
parchment paper, and freeze. When ready to bake, pop out the shapes
like paper dolls.

Filling Stuffed Manicotti

Getting the filling into stuffed shells or manicotti can be a tedious
and frustrating task. Here's an easier way to do it:

Fill the bowl of a long-handled infant spoon with the desired filling.
Insert the filling into the pasta, then withdraw the spoon,
depositing the filling.

Freezing Stock in Convenient Portions

1. Ladle the stock into oversized, non-stick muffin tins, each of
which holds just under one cup of stock, and freeze.

2. When the stock is frozen, twist the muffin tin in the same manner
as you twist an ice tray, tapper the bottom with a butter knife to
loosen if necessary. Place the frozen cubes in a plastic bag, seal
tightly, and use as needed.

Avoiding the Burn of Chile Peppers

Here's a way to work with very hot, fresh chile peppers without
burning your hands. You'll need a chef's knife and a serrated-tip
grapefruit spoon.

Holding the chile in place with the grapefruit spoon, slice the chile
lengthwise with the chef's knife. Holding the knife at the stem end
of the chile, use the grapefruit spoon to scrape out the seeds and
ribs.

Pureeing Heads of Garlic

Cut about  1/4-inch from the end of a head of roasted garlic. Place
the garlic, tip side down, in a potato ricer. The extruded garlic is
nicely pureed, while the peel remains inside the ricer.

Rehydrating Dried Ingredients

Place the dried ingredient in a glass measuring cup and cover with
warm water. Place a custard cup over the dried ingredients, then fill
the cup with water. This keeps the dried ingredients completely
submerged so they rehydrate evenly.

Transferring Pie Crust

1. Roll out the crust on a floured pastry cloth or sheets of waxed
paper.

2. Fold the waxed paper over so that the dough forms a half-circle.

3. Fold the waxed paper from the other side so the dough forms a
quarter-circle.

4. Transfer the quarter-circle of dough from the waxed paper to a pie
plate, placing the dough point in the exact center of the pan.

5. Unfold the dough halfway.

6. Finally, unfold the dough completely. The open dough is centered
and wrinkle-free.

Better Fried Chicken

Putting several pieces of celery, with leaves, into the oil when
frying chicken produces more beautifully colored and better-tasting
fried chicken

Cook's Illustrated
December 1995
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   11-13-95

