Title: Quick and Easy Desserts - 2
Categories: Information, Desserts
Yield: 1 info
None
Dip It

33. Thin peanut butter with honey; add raisins, and use as a dip for
apple wedges.

34. Stir brown sugar and toasted coconut into vanilla low-fat yogurt,
and use as a dip for fresh pineapple spears.

35. Whisk sifted powdered sugar and amaretto into low-fat sour cream,
and use as a dip for fresh strawberries.

36. Combine vanilla low-fat yogurt, orange marmalade, and a dash of
cinnamon to make a dip for fresh peach slices.

37. Thin peanut butter with orange low-fat yogurt to make a dip for
assorted fresh fruit or graham crackers.

38. Add a drop or two of anise flavoring and honey to vanilla low-fat
yogurt, and use as a dip for fresh figs.

Top It

39. Toss fresh strawberries with creme de cassis as a topping for
vanilla low-fat ice cream.

40. Top a scoop of frozen vanilla non-fat yogurt with maple syrup, a
dash of cinnamon, and toasted chopped walnuts.

41. Heat blueberries with orange marmalade and a small amount of
orange juice; thicken the mixture with cornstarch, and serve over
angel food cake.

42. Thin low-sugar strawberry spread with orange juice and
strawberry-flavored schnapps to serve over low-fat ice cream.

43. Saute orange sections with reduced-calorie margarine and cream
sherry. Serve over angel food cake, and top with toasted almonds.

44. Top vanilla low-fat ice cream with no-sugar added apricot
conserve and gingersnap crumbs.

Something Different

45. Dip one end of fresh strawberries or dried apricots into melted
semi-sweet chocolate, and allow to dry.

46. Stir low-fat granola, fresh raspberries, and sliced bananas into
vanilla low-fat yogurt.

47. Combine fresh raspberries and cubed nectarines, pile mixture onto
store-bough shortcake, and top with fat-free hot-fudge sauce.

48. Spread non-fat cream cheese on raisin bread, and top with sliced
bananas; drizzle with honey or syrup.

49. Prepare instant chocolate pudding-and-pie filling mix with skim
milk; place  1/2 cup on each dessert plate. Top with 2 ladyfingers
drizzled with amaretto or Frangelico liqueur.

50. Bake flour tortilla wedge at 400øF for 3 minutes. Brush with
honey, and sprinkle with sesame seeds or crushed aniseeds; bake until
golden.

Cooking Light
Special Edition
Quick & Easy Weeknights
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   11-13-95

