Title: Roast Turkey with Rice Dressing
Categories: Main dish, Poultry, Holiday
Yield: 20 servings
-drained
1 1/2 ts Poultry seasoning
1/4 c  (approximate) butter or
-margarine; nelted
Red and green grapes
Orange wedges
Lime wedges
Apple wedges
Whole walnuts
Fresh parsley sprigs
14 lb To 15 lb turkey
2 ts Salt
2 ts Pepper
1 c  Celery; sliced
1/2 c  Onion; chopped
1/2 c  Butter or margarine
2 c  Herb-seasoned croutons
3 ea 10-ounce packages frozen
-rice with green pepper and
-parsley; thawed
1 ea 8-ounce can water chestnuts;
Remove giblets and neck from turkey; reserve for giblet gravy, if
desired.  Rinse turkey thoroughly with cold water; pat dry.  Combine
salt and pepper; sprinkle over surface and in cavity of turkey.
Saute celery and onion in 1/2 cup butter until tender.  Combine
sauteed vegetables, croutons, rice, water chestnuts, and poultry
seasoning in a large mixing bowl; mix well.
Stuff dressing into cavity of turkey, and close cavity with
skewers. Tie ends of legs to tail with string or tuck them under flap
of skin around tail.  Lift wing-tips up and over back so they are
tucked under bird securely.
Brush entire bird with about 1/4 cup melted butter; place breast
side up on a rack in roasting pan.  Insert meat thermometer in breast
or meaty part of thigh, making sure it does not touch bone.  Bake at
325 degrees F until meat thermometer registers 185 degrees F (about
4-1/2 to 5-1/2 hours); baste turkey frequently with pan drippings. If
turkey gets too brown, cover lightly with aluminum foil.
When turkey is two-thirds done, cut the cord or band of skin
holding the drumstick ends to the tail; this will ensure that the
inside of the thighs is cooked.  Turkey is done when drumsticks are
easy to move.
Transfer turkey to serving platter.  Let stand 15 minutes before
carving.  Garnish with fruit, nuts, and parsley.  Yield: 20 to 24
servings.

Note: If turkey and dressing are prepared in advance, refrigerate
separately and stuff just prior to cooking.  After serving, remove
dressing from turkey cavity as soon as possible.  Cool meat and
dressing promptly, and refrigerate separately.

From Tammy Smith of Tennessee in December, 1982 "Southern Living"
Typos by Jeff Pruett
Submitted By JEFF PRUETT   On   10-19-95

