Title: Rules For Safe Freezing
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM--------------------SAFE FREEZING RULES-------------------------
For clean and safe to eat foods, always follow the freezing recipe
directions exactly, use the containers and equipment called for, and
keep in mind the following DO's and DON'Ts.

DO 1. Work in a clean kitchen with clean floors, counter tops,
cabinets and range, and clean equipment.
2. Keep utensils that handle raw meat and poultry scrupulously
clean. That means scrubbing, washing, and rinsing knives and cutting
boards between each type of cutting or chopping task.
3. Work with clean food. Wash, scrub, and rinse vegetables in several
water, lift food out of the water to drain, and don't let water drain
off over food.
4. Work with clean dish cloths and towels, clean hands, and clean
clothes.
5. Wash your hands each time you touch something other than food,
such as your hair, your face, the phone, a child, or a pet.
6. Get out all the necessary equipment. Wash it and ready all
ingredients before you start to follow recipe directions, so there's
be no delays and no chance for food to spoil.
7. Remember to protect your hands when working with hot foods. Use
hot pads and tongs.
8. Be extra cautious with large pots or kettles of boiling water or
food. Don't move them, but keep them on the range and work there.
9. Avoid any sudden changes in temperatures when working with
can-or-freeze jars. Putting a hot jar on a counter or in a cold draft
could cause it to break.
10. Always read and follow manufacturer's directions for special
equipment or appliances.
11. Use the very best, most perfect food for freezing. Spending time
and money to freeze less than the best is a waste.
12. Blanch all vegetables before freezing. Blanching destroys
enzymes that can cause chemical changes in foods, and is an essential
step.
13. Use moisture/vaporproof containers and seal properly, following
recipe directions exactly. Poor packaging can cause freezer burn, off
flavors, and less than the best foods.
14. Freeze foods quickly to prevent large ice crystals from forming.
Follow the directions for quick freezing.
15. Buy a freezer thermometer and check it regularly. It should read
zero degrees F at all times, any higher temperature and you're
shortening the freezer life of the food.
16. Keep an inventory of your frozen vegetables, so you can use them
within the best part of their freezer life. Most vegetables will
maintain quality for a year. Vegetables that have been fully cooked
before freezing should be stored for a much sorter time, no more than
a month.
17. Cook and serve vegetables as each recipe directs. Vegetables are
best cooked directly from the frozen state, in a very small amount of
water and just until tender.
18. Put your freezer in a convenient, cool, dry, well ventilated
location and clean and/or defrost it once a year.

DON'T 1. Don't use your hands when a kitchen tool will do the job.
Keep fingers out of food if at all possible.
2. Don't try shortcuts or substitutions or time saving gimmicks.
There's only one correct way to prepare food for freezing, and the
techniques and recipes are based on it.
3. Don't cook or prepare food for preserving when you're sick.
4. Don't prepare food if you have sores on your hands, unless you
wear rubber gloves.

Source: Vegetable Gardening Encyclopedia Typos by Dorothy Flatman 1995
Submitted By DOROTHY FLATMAN   On   09-28-95

