Title: Saffron Rice with Chicken, Fruit and Walnuts
Categories: Poultry, Pasta/rice
Yield: 6 servings
3 c  Cooked long-grain rice
1/4 lb Butter
1/4 ts Saffron threads
-steeped in
1 tb Hot water
1/2 c  Yogurt
Butter to grease mold
1 ts Lemon peel, minced
1 ts Allspice
Salt and pepper to taste
2 c  Cooked chicken breasts
-skinned and boned (1« lb)
1 c  Boiling water
1/4 c  Currants
6    Pitted prunes
-cut in small pieces
12    Pitted dates
-cut in small pieces
6    Dried apricots
-cut in small pieces
6    Dried peaches
-cut in small pieces
1/4 c  Toasted walnuts
-coarsely chopped
In a bowl, pour boiling water over the dried fruits. Steep for 10
minutes. then drain, reserving the liquid. Set aside.

In a separate bowl, mix walnuts with 2 cups cooked rice and set
aside. In another bowl, combine remaining rice with 6 tbs of the
melted butter, the saffron and the yogurt. Preheat oven to 400øF and
butter a metal mold that measures 7x3 inches. Spoon saffron rice
mixture into the bottom of the prepared mold and pack it down to
eliminate air pockets.

To the rice and walnut mixture, add lemon peel, allspice and salt and
pepper and spoon half of this mixture over the saffron rice. Layer
half of the dried fruit, then half of the diced chicken over the
mixture. Spoon 1 tbs of the reserved fruit liquid and 1 tbs of the
remaining melted butter over it. Add the rest of the walnut-rice
mixture and repeat with the fruit, then chicken and then the
remaining fruit liquid and melted butter. Pack down firmly with a
wooden spoon. Cover the top with aluminum foil and bake it on the
bottom shelf of the oven for 40 minutes.

Remove from the oven and place the mold on top of the stove over low
heat and cook for 5 minutes more to form a golden crust. When ready
to serve, place the bottom of the mold in cold water for a few
minutes, then invert to unmold onto a serving dish. Scrape any rusty
rice from the bottom of the mold and spoon it over the surface.

The Versatile Grain
and the
Elegant Bean
by Sheryl and Mel London
ISBN 0-671-76106-4
pg 184
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   10-17-95

