Title: Saffron
Categories: Information, Herbs/spice
Yield: 1 info
None
The flavor of saffron is difficult to describe, but its presence in
food is unmistakable. slightly bitter, intensely aromatic, and a
little bit sweet, once you taste it you'll never forget it. Turmeric
and ground safflower petals can tint food the same golden hue, but
there's no substitute for the taste of true saffron.

The spice itself is the stigma of a fall-blooming crocus that's
native to the eastern Mediterranean and southern Europe. Today,
saffron is cultivated mainly in Spain, Iran, and northern India.
Because it's harvested and processed entirely by hand, as it has been
for centuries, saffron is one of the costliest of spices - over $200
per pound.

The uncomplicated flavor of starchy foods, such as grains, pasta, and
potatoes, provides an ideal background for saffron's own exotic
taste. Add saffron to a broth for steaming couscous, and you'll
infuse the finished dish with its delicate fragrance. Risotto
Milanese, the classic Italian rice dish, gets its golden color and
irresistible aroma from saffron. Throughout Scandinavia, saffron is
used to season breads and cakes. And, of course, no paella or
bouillabaisse is complete without saffron.

For even color and maximum flavor, don't add saffron directly;
instead, first make a reduced saffron infusion.
~ Crumble the threads slightly and lightly toast them in a dry pan
over very low heat. Heating the saffron liquefies its color- and
flavor-bearing oils and makes for a more flavorful infusion.
~ Next, add a little hot water, bring to a boil, and reduce the
mixture slightly. Add this infusion to whatever you're cooking;
there's no need to strain the infusion.
This technique is useful when combining saffron with acidic
ingredients, such as vinegar, lemon juice, and very tart wines, which
inhibit its ability to color.

Saffron's high price and intense flavor dictate that it be used
sparingly; 1/4 tsp is enough to flavor 1 cup of uncooked rice, enough
for 4 average servings. Too much saffron is not a good thing; it will
leave your food with an unpleasant medicinal taste.

Most saffron in North America comes from the Mancha region of Spain
and is graded according to the ratio of red to yellow threads. The
best and costliest saffron has the fewest yellow threads. The
finest-grade Spanish saffron, called coupe, is rarely available in
our markets. We do enjoy a plentiful supply of "superior" grade
Spanish saffron, which typically contains a red-to-yellow ration of
10 to 1.

The most prize saffron comes from the Kashmir region of India, but
because of political strife in the area, very little Kashmir saffron
gets to American markets. The best kashmir saffron, Mogra Cream, is
pure vermilion with no yellow threads. Penzeys Ltd Spice House
(414-574-0277) is the only source of Kashmir Mogra Cream saffron in
this country.

Powdered saffron, which is less expensive than the whole threads,
isn't worth the savings. Like any ground spice, saffron's flavor and
aroma fade quickly when crushed. Also, unscrupulous traders sometimes
combine powdered saffron with turmeric and other inferior ingredients.

Saffron is a seasonal crop and is best shortly after the harvest in
the fall. Even though saffron is partially dried when it's processed,
it should still feel soft and moist, never brittle or hard. To keep
saffron moist and fragrant, transfer it to an airtight glass jar and
store it in the freezer.

Fine Cooking
Aug-Sept 1995
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   11-11-95

