Title: Saffron Risotto with Dried Porcini
Categories: Pasta/rice
Yield: 6 servings
-sliced 1/8" thick
-then diced
2 c  Arborio rice
3/4 c  Dry white wine
Salt and pepper
1/2 c  Parmigiano-reggiano
-cheese, freshly grated
1 oz Dried porcini
2 qt Rich poultry stock
5 tb Butter
1 md Yellow onion(s)
-finely chopped
1 pn Saffron
-about 30 threads
2 oz Pancetta
In a medium saucepan, add the porcini to the poultry stock; bring it
gently to a simmer, remove from the heat, and let stand until the
porcini are tender and rehydrated, 8-10 minutes - but not more than
about 10 minutes or the porcini will render all their flavor and
taste bland in the rice. Strain, reserving both the porcini and the
broth. Return the broth to the heat and bring it to a low simmer.

In a heavy 6-quart saucepan, warm 2 tbs of the butter, add the onions
and saffron and cook until the onions begin to soften, about 5
minutes. Add the pancetta and cook for about another 3 minutes.
Increase the heat and add the rice, stirring often to prevent it from
sticking to the bottom of the pan and to make sure it is well coated
with hot butter. When you notice the rice turning from opaque to
shiny and translucent, add the wine. Let the wine reduce away, add
the rehydrated porcini, and then add enough hot broth to just barely
cover the rice, about 1« cups. Stir well, reduce the heat, and simmer
gently, stirring often.

Continue adding broth in ¬-cup increments as the rice begins to
absorb it, keeping the risotto at a constant simmer and stirring
often. Keep the level of the broth just above the rice.

After about 15 minutes, the rice will have lost most of its
hard-kernel quality but will still be firm in the middle. Continue to
cook for 3-5 minutes more. Taste for texture; when it's still
slightly chewy, but yielding, add the remaining butter, and season
with salt and pepper. (Remember when you add the salt, that you'll
later add cheese, another salty element.)

Finally, correct the consistency of the rice and surrounding liquid by
adjusting the heat. The goal is to bring about a marriage of rice,
broth, and the final addition of butter; the mixture should be nearly
pourable, the whole reduced to the point that there is no separation
between broth and rice. Serve at once in warm, wide bowls. Sprinkle
with parmigiano-reggiano at the table.

Fine Cooking October-November 1995
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   09-29-95

