Title: Salade Lyonnaise
Categories: Salads, Meats
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM----------------------SALADE LYONNAISE---------------------------
Here is a delicious, quick salad where the liver characteristic
flavor (a minus for many) becomes actually a plus when combined with
the rest:

1) Take some old bread, sourdough or other dense texture, dice into
croutons,put in the oven to brown (1.5 cups)

2) Take the liver(s) you have, likewise dice, sautee with a little
onion orgarlic (1 cup before cooking) (you could also let it cook one
minute ina little wine if you have an open bottle)

3) Take a lettuce head, the red-green variety (not radicchio, which is
bitter),with soft leaves, cut leaves into 1 inch slices

4) Prepare mustard de Dijon by whipping 2tsp mustard and 3tbsp veg.
oil witha fork or spoon. Will make a mousse. Add more oil if you
think it can beabsorbed in the mousse.Combine all ingredients in
bowl, toss and serve with red wine. If liver and bread settle at the
bottom of bowl, you may have used a lettuce with too stiff leaves or
have sliced them too big.

Giblet Saute

1 pound each chicken gizzards and livers (I cook them in separate
batches, so I double the following ingredients) X Flour 4 Tbsp butter
(you may need more) 1 tsp salt 1/2 tsp freshly ground black pepper
1/4 tsp thyme 4 Tbsp dry sherry or white wine (we much prefer the
sherry) 1 clove garlic, finely chopped 4 Tbsp chopped parsley

Clean and trim the gizzards and livers and flour them well.  Melt the
butter in a skillet and saute briskly until they are well browned.
Season with the salt, pepper and thyme and add the wine. Cover and
Stephanie da Silva's Liver Collection  (p10 simmer [*very* low heat]
for about an hour [turn once].  Add the garlic and let it cook until
soft, then add the parsley, Server on steamed rice.

Serves 4.   Chicken Livers 2

Simple but delicioso:

X lb chicky livers (that's what we call 'em) 1 onion, sliced to fall
apartv garlic, pressed 1 tsp lemon juice 6 (?) large mushrooms,
sliced 6 (?) sprigs parsley/oregano, chopped 2 tbl butter X salt &
pepper to taste 4 tbl white wine

Lightly saute livers and garlic in the butter.  Remove.  Add onions,
cook just until clear.  Add everything except the wine.  Cook until
barely done. Add wine, cook until done.mara
Date: 11-02-95 (07:59) (164)
From: Sam Lefkowitz
Fido: Home Co

