Title: Salad Of Raw Artichokes, Radicchio, And Parmesan Cheese
Categories: Vegetables, Fruit, Italian
Yield: 1 servings
SJK
Radicchio
Keywords: Salads, Scanned,
From : Sallie Krebs, Sat 07 Oct 95 13:30, Area: COOKING

INSALATA DI CARCIOFI GRANA, E RADICCHIO MAKES 6 SERVINGS Source:
Cooking Vegetables the Italian Way; Judith Barrett ISBN
0-02-009078-1; 1994

Use only very fresh, small artichokes and the best Parmesan. This
salad has a delicious lemony taste. The recipe was inspired by a dish
I tasted at the restaurant Le Madri in New York City.

12 carciofini, very small artichokes (about 2 inches high) 1/2 cup
extra virgin olive oil 1/4 cup fresh lemon juice 1 cup shredded
radicchio leaves One 4-ounce (about) piece Parmigiano-Reggiano
cheese, shaved into paper-thin slices Salt and freshly ground black
pepper to taste

1. Prepare the artichokes: Combine the juice from 1 whole lemon with
4 cups of cool water in a nonreactive bowl and set aside. Peel away
the tough dark green leaves of each artichoke. Starting with the
leaves closest to the stem, break off the leaves all around the
artichoke until only light yellow leaves are visible. Using a knife,
cut 1 to 2 inches off the top of the artichoke, peel the stem, and
trim around the base to make a neat, even surface. Use a grapefruit
spoon or melon baller to scrape the fuzzy choke out of larger
artichokes. Place the prepared artichoke in the bowl with the lemon
and water mixture, to prevent discoloration, until ready to cook.
When you are finished trimming them, they should be about the size of
a large egg.

2. Pat the artichokes dry with a paper towel. Cut them in half
lengthwise and slice them as thinly as possible so that they are
almost shredded. Transfer the sliced artichokes to a bowl and
immediately add the olive oil and lemon juice. Mix well.

3. Combine the radicchio and most of the cheese with the artichokes
and stir to combine. Season lightly with salt. Be careful not to
oversalt since the cheese will also add saltiness to the salad.

4. Divide the mixture evenly among six plates. Place some of the
remaining Parmesan cheese on each serving. Serve immediately with
freshly ground black pepper.
Date: 10-07-95 (19:57) (159)
From: Sallie Krebs
Fido: Cooking

