Title: Sar Moo Sars (Burmese Curry Turnovers)
Categories: Appetizers, Low cal/fat
Yield: 20 pieces
1 c  Cooked split peas
1 md Potato, peeled
-finely chopped
2/3 c  Vegetable stock (approx)
Salt (opt)
15    Sheets phyllo dough
-(each 14x18 inches)
1/4 c  Fine dry bread crumbs
2 1/2 tb Olive oil
1 sm Onion, finely chopped
2    Garlic clove(s), minced
2 ts Ginger, minced
1    (to 2) jalape¤o
-or other hot chilies
-seeded and minced
1 1/2 ts Curry powder
1/2 ts Ground cumin
1. Heat 1 tbs olive oil in a non-stick fry pan. Cook the onion,
garlic, ginger, and chilies over medium heat until soft but not
brown, 3-4 minutes, adding the curry powder and cumin after 2 minutes.

2. Stir in the peas, potatoes, and vegetable stock and simmer for 6-8
minutes, or until the potatoes are very tender and virtually all the
stock has been absorbed. If the stock evaporates before the potatoes
are cooked, add a little more. Correct the seasoning, adding salt or
curry powder. The mixture should be highly seasoned.

3. Unwrap 15 sheets of phyllo dough and cover with a slightly damp
dish towel or plastic wrap. Lay one sheet of phyllo on the work
surface, lightly brush it with some of the remaining 1« tbs olive
oil, and sprinkle with 1 tsp bread crumbs. Lay a second sheet of
phyllo on top. Brush with more oil and sprinkle with bread crumbs.
Repeat with a third sheet of phyllo. Cut the sheets lengthwise into
3«-inch strips.

4. Place 1 generous tbs of filling 1-inch below the top of the strip.
Fold over one corner to cover the filling, then fold the strip as you
would a flag to form a neat triangle. Continue making sar moo sars in
this fashion until all the filling and phyllo dough are used up.
Brush the tops of the pastries with a little olive oil.

Can be prepared several hours ahead to this point and kept in the
refrigerator.

5. Preheat the oven to 400øF. Bake the sar moo sars on a non-stick
baking sheet until golden brown, about 15 minutes.

High-Flavor, Low-Fat Vegetarian Cooking by Steven Raichlen pg 21
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   10-26-95

