Title: Simple Presentation Guidelines
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 info
None
1. Choose an item to feature and build your presentation around it.
Compliment that item, don't smother it.

2. Never overfill a dish. Be generous with your portions if you want,
but be aware that a glimpse of the plate underneath will entertain
the eye and stimulate the appetite far more than a gigantic serving.

3. Keep the rim of the plate clean. The rim should be used as a frame
for your plate, not a ledge to pile more food on.

4. emphasize balance instead of symmetry. Odd numbers always look
better than even. Try clustering items. A nice bouquet of greens with
a dollop of diced, marinated tomato will look much nicer than sprigs
of lettuce here and there with random tomato wedges.

5. Remember that real food is three dimensional. Give it some height!
See how high you can stack the asparagus and still get it to the
table. Have a fresh herb sprig stand up from the pilaf and call for
attention. Never flatten or smooth out your food.

6. Keep it simple. The food will look best naturally, with a light
hand to the arranging and garnishing. You don't want anything to look
overhandled.

7. Serve hot food hot and cold food cold. Make sure that the serving
dishes are the appropriate temperature.

8. Clean up the serving dishes. Before taking the dish to the table
be sure the plate rim is free of any splashes or fingerprints.

9. Garnish at the last minute. Add a snippet of something fresh and
lively just before serving. Sauce your dishes at the last minute to
make them glossy and inviting. If something looks drab, shine it up
with a little oil, or sprinkle it with some color. A shower of fresh,
chopped parsley can be lovely, but only if it is green , moist and
aromatic.

10. Keep in mind that if the picture looks too good to be true, it
probably is. Food in photographs is sometimes not what it seems. The
bag of tricks used by professional stylists can include a surprising
collection of unappetizing techniques.

Simply Seafood
Fall 1995
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   11-13-95

