Title: Sludge Cookies
Categories: Cake/cookie
Yield: 1 servings
No Ingredients Found
This originally started out as a Date Oatmeal Cookie.  I failed to
read the recipe all the way through and added the dates before I
should have. Ended up having to adapt it by adding more flour until
it became a cookie 'dough' consistency and using the batter anyways.
My boys LOVED the ensuing results... (go figure..) 1 lb chopped dates
1/2 cup chopped walnuts 3/4 cup water 1/2 cup white sugar

Mix together in saucepan and cook until 'sludge' consistency is
reached, about 15-20 minutes over medium heat. 3/4 cup margarine,
softened 1 cup brown sugar, packed 2 cups flour 2 cups oatmeal, quick
cooking 2 tsp baking powder 1 tsp baking soda 1/2 cup sour cream or
plain yogurt 1-1/2 tsp vanilla Cream the margarine and sugar
together. Add vanilla and continue to beat until fluffy. Add the sour
cream or yogurt and beat. Mix the baking soda and baking powder in 1
cup of the flour and set aside.  After 'sludge' mixture is cooled
slightly, add to cream mixture, beating continually. Slowly add the
flour to which the soda and powder has been added. Add the 2 cups of
oatmeal, a little at a time, and then add the remaining cup of plain
flour until mixture is a good texture dough. (Sometimes it takes all
the 1 cup, sometimes not.  Depends on the moisture in the air) Mix
until completely combined and allow to sit for about 5 minutes to let
the oatmeal absorb some of the moisture from the date mixture. Drop
by spoonsful onto a greased cookie sheet and bake in a 365-375F oven
for about 10-15 minutes, or until a light brown on top. Cookies will
spread a bit. Let cool slightly on the tray, and then transfer to
cooling racks to cool completely. Store in an airtight container,
using plastic wrap or waxed paper between layers as cookies will tend
to 'clump' together if sitting on one another. Origin: Sharon Stevens
(an original recipe, believe me! 8-} ) Shared by: Sharon Stevens,
Oct/95.

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   10-16-95

