Title: Smoked Shrimp Enchilada W/Red Pepper Cream, Barbecue Sauc
Categories: Tex/mexican, Fish/seafoo, Bbq/grill
Yield: 4 servings
1 c  Sour cream
Salt and pepper -- to taste
2 oz Sun-dried tomatoes -- soaked
-and diced
3 oz Sweet onions -- diced
1 c  Fresh corn kernels
1 c  Mushrooms -- diced
1/2 c  Green onions -- thinly
-sliced
15    Smoked shrimp -- diced
4    Flour tortillas
1 pt Heavy whipping cream --
-reduced by half
2 tb Lime juice -- use
-fresh-squeezed
1 tb Unsalted butter
Salt and pepper -- to taste
1    Bag Wood chips for smoking
-soaked in water
1    Chipotle pepper
2    Serrano peppers
2    Tomatoes -- seeded
1    Red onion
3    Red bell peppers -- split
-and seeded
1    Turnip
4    Cloves Garlic
1 ga Beef stock
2 tb Dry mustard
3    Carrots -- chopped
1/2 c  Raspberry vinegar
1/2 c  Brown sugar
1 c  Ketchup
2 c  Heavy whipping cream
1    Red bell pepper
STEP ONE: Prepare the Barbecue Sauce--
Start a charcoal fire in outdoor grill. When coals are white-hot,
cover with soaked wood chips. Place chipotle and serrano chiles,
tomatoes, red onion, 3 red bell peppers, turnip, and garlic on grill
and cover. Adjust dampers to reduce heat and smoke vegetables for
about 20 minutes. (When vegetables are done, smoke shrimp for
enchilada filling for about 15 to 20 minutes.)

Add vegetables to beef stock and reduce to 1 quart. Meanwhile, reduce
brown sugar and raspberry vinegar to syrup consistency. Strain
vegetables from stock and discard. Add carrots, mustard, and
vinegar-sugar mixture to stock and simmer until carrots are done.
Puree sauce in blender and strain. Return to heat, add ketchup, and
reduce until sauce coats the back of a spoon. Add salt and pepper to
taste.

CHEF'S NOTE: Adjust amount of chiles for hotter sauce.

STEP TWO: Prepare the Red Peppers--
Over an open flame, roast the red bell pepper until skin is charred
black and begins to loosen from the pepper. Immediately immerse
pepper in ice water. When cool, peel and seed pepper and place in
blender with sour cream. Puree until smooth and add salt and pepper
to taste.

STEP THREE: Create Smoked Shrimp Enchiladas--
Saute sun-dried tomatoes, diced sweet onion, corn kernels, mushrooms,
and green onions in butter until slightly soft. Add shrimp, cream and
lime juice and reduce. Taste for salt and pepper.

Place equal amounts of fillings in center of tortilla and roll the
tortilla in a cylinder.

Garnish each tortilla with a dollop of Red Pepper Cream and pour
barbecue sauce around the enchilada.

: Mark Haugen of Tejas, Minneapolis, MN
Recipe By

Date: 11-15-95 (09:26)
From: Marjorie Scofield
(160) Fido: Recipes

