Title: Smoking Salmon And Trout Part VIII - Making Lox
Categories: Fish/seafoo, Can/preserv, Information
Yield: 1 text file  There are three products called Lox: old fashioned Lox, Nova Lox and
Lox Salmon [ plus a whole lot of other smoked and pickled products
using the name but bearing little resemblance to any of these].

Old fashioned Lox: Freshen mild-salted fish [salting instructions
follow in a later chapter] by soaking in several changes of water.
Thin pieces will require less time than thick pieces that may take up
to 24 hours. Test by tasting, remembering that the subsequent smoking
will dry the fish and concentrate the saltiness. Drain the freshened
fish on the smoking racks. Smoke at 85 deg F with medium density
smoke for 6-8 hrs [forced draft] or 12-16 hrs [natural draft]. Cool
the fish before wrapping and freeze any surplus. Lox is perishable.

Nova Lox and Lox Salmon: Fish may be either fresh or frozen. Frozen is
actually better as the freezing and thawing removes some of the
moisture. If the fish are frozen whole, fillet them when they are
half thawed. Cut into pieces according to thickness. Use the thick
portions for Lox and the thin ones in kippering, drying, canning or
eating fresh. Make a dry salt-sugar mix of equal parts sugar and
pickling salt. Dry salt by placing the pieces in a container of mix.
Cover each piece but do not rub it into the flesh. Sprinkle some mix
into a container and lay the salt mix dredged pieces on it skin side
down. Sprinkle each layer with more mix and add another layer etc.
Times for salting according to thickness are the same as for Scotch
smoked dry salting above.

Remove the pieces from the mix, rinse and drain. Now brine the pieces
in 90 deg sal brine [2 1/2 c salt per 2 qts water] with optional bay
leaves included. Keep brine and fish cool throughout the process.
Then freshen the fish under running water more or less to taste; the
table is just an approximation.

BRINING AND FRESHENING TIMES

Brining Time
Thickness

9 hrs
12 hrs
3/4"
1"
1 1/2 hrs
24 hrs
2"

At this point decide whether you want smoked Nova Lox or unsmoked Lox
Salmon. For Nova Lox smoke as for old fashioned Lox. For Lox Salmon
the pieces must be dried without heat until firm enough for slicing.
A frost free refrigerator will dry uncovered Lox enough to firm it.

Extracted from: Smoking Salmon & Trout by Jack Whelan. Published by:
Airie Publishing, Deep Bay, B.C. ISBN: 0-919807-00-3 Posted by: Jim
Weller Submitted By JIM WELLER   On   11-03-95

