Title: Smoking Salmon And Trout Part XIII - Smoking for Canning
Categories: Fish/seafoo, Can/preserv, Information
Yield: 1 text file  Because the fish is hot smoked and inclined to crumble, cut the side
into canned sized pieces before smoking. Use a 80 deg sal brine: 5
cups salt per 4 qt water.

BRINING TIMES

Piece thickness
1/2"
3/4"
1"
1 1/2"
2"
:
:
:
:
:
:
minimized to avoid harsh flavor in the finished product, but drying is
important for quality. For forced draft smokers with hot plates,
smoke 2 1/2 hrs at 110 deg F, and dry two more hours without smoke.
Fro natural draft smokers, smoke 7 hours low smoke or 3 1/2 hrs
medium smoke and finish drying two hours in a very low oven with the
door ajar. Skin the pieces while still warm. Pack jars or cans as
full as possible finishing with small strips. Process.

N.B. IMPROPERLY CANNED FISH OR ANY OTHER FOOD CAN CARRY BOTULISM - A
DEADLY POISON!

Always process in a pressure cooker. Meat and fish are particularly
susceptible to botulism. If you have any doubts about a canned
product- do not taste it. Always boil home canned products at least
10 minutes before consuming. Never use any canned foods that show any
sign of spoilage. Bulging can ends and jar lids usually indicate
spoilage. When you open containers, check for off odours, froth, foam
or mold.

How to control botulism:

Botulism type E bacteria are found in fish intestines, gills and in
mud from the sea. They thrive in the absence of oxygen in low acid
environments. 5% salt retards growth but smoked salmon runs 1 to 4%
only. Prompt removal of guts and gills followed by thorough washing
of the belly cavity reduces contamination by as much as 90%. Bacteria
can grow, albiet slowly, in temps as low as 5 deg C so immediate
icing of fish and dropping the temp below 4 deg and maintaining until
eaten will keep them safe.

When pressure cooking, the heat must penetrate into the centre of the
can. Every last bit of food must reach 240 deg F [118 deg C] to be
safe. Test your gauge for accuracy periodically. Use pint jars or
smaller. Or you can use small enamel lined 1/2 lb or 1 lb tin cans.
Process 2 hours at 10 lb pressure. Extracted from: Smoking Salmon &
Trout by Jack Whelan. Published by: Airie Publishing, Deep Bay, B.C.
ISBN: 0-919807-00-3 Posted by: Jim Weller
Submitted By JIM WELLER   On   11-03-95

