Title: Soymilk, Homemade (From Whole Soybeans) #1/2
Categories: Beverages
Yield: 7 1/2 cups
MMMMM-------------------THE BOOK OF TOFU" 1975------------------------
- room temperature for
- about 10 hours, then
- drained and rinsed well
12 c  Water (hot)
Typed by Dorothy Hair 6/94
----------------------------
1 1/2 c  Soybeans, dry; washed and
- drained 3 times, soaked
- in  4 to 6 cups water at
This delicious soymilk contains about 3.7 percent protein (vs 3.3 for
dairy milk) and takes only 20 minutes to prepare. Using store bought
soybeans it will cost roughly less than one third the price of dairy
milk. The "boiling water-grind"  technique, developed at Cornell
University, is quicker and easier than traditional methods, and it
inactivates the soy enzyme lipoxygenase yielding soymilk with a
flavor more like that of dairy milk. The necessary utensils are found
in any typical kitchen. A stainless steel or glass blender is ideal.
If using a plastic blender bowl that will not standing boiling water,
or a food mill or juicer, see the first Variation below. To make
silken tofu or yuba, use the rich soymilk described in the second
variation. Note: do NOT use soybeans that are more than one year old:
they yield a starchy thick milk that clogs the pressing sack.

Step 1. Run 12 cups water (preferably hot) into a large teapot or
kettle and bring to a boil. Place a deep, 6-to-8 quart pot in sink,
set a large colander in mouth of pot, and line colander with a
moistened pressing sack 15 inches wide and 15 inches deep made of
coarse-weave linen ( with the mesh big enough to poke a pin through)
or a coarse-weave 2 foot-square dishcloth. Divide soaked beans into
three equal portions (about 1 1/3 cups each).

Step 2. Preheat a glass, stainless steel, or heatproof plastic
blender bowl by slowly pouring in 2 to 3 cups boiling water. Allow
water to stand for 1 minute, than discard. In the blender combine one
portion of beans with 2 cups boiling water (from teapot) and puree at
high speed for 1 minute, or until very smooth. Pour puree into sack
in colander. Puree remaining portions of beans with 2 cups water each
and pour into sack. Rinse out blender with 1/4 cup boiling water to
retrieve any puree, and pour into sack.

Step 3. Twist mouth of sack closed. Using a glass jar or potato
masher, press sack repeatedly against bottom of colander to extract
as much soymilk as possible. Shake solids (okara)  into one corner of
sack, twist further closed and press again. Open mouth of sack wide
in colander, stir okara briefly, then pour 2 1/2 cups boiling water
over okara. Stir again. Twist sack closed and press repeatedly with
jar. Transfer pot containing soymilk to stove. Reserve okara for use
in cooking. (Or, to get 1/2 cup more soymilk, open sack wide, allow
okara to cool for 5 minutes, then twist closed sack and use your
hands to squeeze out remaining soymilk.)

Step 4. Bring soymilk to a boil over medium-high heat, stirring
bottom of cooking pot constantly with a wooden spatula or spoon to
prevent sticking. When foam suddenly rises in pot ( or milk comes to
a boil) reduce heat to medium and simmer for about 7 minutes. Remove
pot from burner. Or heat for 30 minutes in a covered double boiler or
in a covered saucepan set in a pot of boiling water.)

[ continued]
|
Submitted By LISA GREENWOOD   On   10-06-95

