Title: Spicy Green Tomato Pickles
Categories: Can/preserv, Tomatoes, Pickles
Yield: 5 servings
2 1/2 tb Celery seed
2 1/2 tb Mustard seed
2 tb Whole cloves
2 tb Whole allspice
3 ea Sticks cinnamon
1 qt (About) vinegar
24 ea To 28 med to lrg green
-Tomatoes
6 ea To 8 onions
1/2 c  Pure granulated salt
2 ea Green peppers; chopped
3 c  Brown sugar
the unique blend of spices sets this pickle recipe apart from other
recipes. The recipe makes five 1 pint jars. You will need the basic
equipment for boiling water bath canning plus a large mixing bowl,
clean plastic dish pan, or enamel kettle. Tie up your spices in a
cheesecloth spice bag.

1. Wash tomatoes, cut out stem ends, and slice very thin. You should
have about 4 quarts of this slices.

2. Peel onions and slice thin. You should have about 2 cups of sliced
onions.

3. Arrange a layer of tomatoes in a large mixing bowl, plastic dish
pan, or enamel kettle, then top with a layer of onions and a layer of
the salt. Repeat until all the tomatoes, onions, and salt are used.

4. Cover and let tomatoes and onions stand several hours or overnight.

5. Organize and prepare ingredients, equipment, and work area.

6. Drain the tomato onion slices thoroughly and put them in a
preserving kettle along with the peppers, sugar, celery, and mustard
seed.

7. tie whole cloves, allspice, and cinnamon in a small cheesecloth
bag and add it to the kettle.

8. Pour in enough vinegar to barely cover vegetables.

9. Heat vegetables to boiling over high heat, then reduce the heat and
simmer 2 hours, adding more vinegar, if necessary, to keep them
covered.

10. Ladle the hot pickles into hot jars to within 1/4 inch of the
tops. Run a slim, non metal tool down along the insides of jars to
release any air bubbles.

11. Spoon in additional cooking liquid from the preserving kettle to
fill jars o within 1/4 inch of the tops, if necessary.

12. Wipe tops and thread of jars with a damp clean cloth.

13. Put on lids and screw bands as manufacturer directs.

14. Process in a boiling water bath for 15 minutes. Follow the basic
steps for boiling water bath canning, 10 through 18.

Source: Vegetable Gardening Encyclopedia Typos by Dorothy Flatman 1995
Submitted By DOROTHY FLATMAN   On   10-09-95

