Title: Stuffed Peppers Florentine+
Categories: Vegetables, Poultry, Main dish
Yield: 4 servings
-or 1/2 ts. dried
1 ts Dried Marjoram
1/2 ts Salt
1/4 ts Pepper
1/4 ts Ground nutmeg
1 1/2 c  Fresh bread crumbs, divided
2 tb Parmesan, grated
2 ts Olive oil
1 c  Chunky tomato sauce,
-preferable low sodium
4 sm Yellow or red sweet bell
-peppers about 3" diameter
1 pk Frozen chopped spinach
-(10 oz.) thawed
1    Chicken breast, boneless,
-skinless (about 6 oz.)
1    Egg white
2    Green onions, coarsely
-chopped
2 tb Fresh Basil leaves (chopped)
TO PREPARE PEPPERS: Slice tops off bell peppers. Remove seeds and
cores. If necessary, slice off a small piece off the bottom of each
pepper to make them stand straight. Place peppers in an 8 x 8" baking
dish.

TO PREPARE FILLING: Place spinach in fine mesh colander. Press with
hands to remove excess moisture. Transfer spinach to bowl of food
processor or blender. Add chicken breast, egg white, green onions,
basil, marjoram, salt, pepper and nutmeg. Puree mixture. Add 1 cup
bread crumbs. Puree again. Spoon mixuture into 4 prepared bell
peppers. In small bowl, combine remaining 1/2 cup bread crumbs,
Parmesan cheese, and olive oil. Pat crumb mix on top of each pepper.

TO BAKE PEPPERS: Pour 1 cup hot water in bottom of pan around peppers.
cover pan with aluminum foil. Bake in 350 degree oven for 50 minutes,
or until peppers are tender and crumb topping is brown. (Note: If
necessary, remove foil during last 10 minutes of baking so topping
will brown.)

TO GRILL PEPPERS: If using double burner gas-grill, heat 1 burner to
high. When grill is hot, place covered pan of peppers on side of
grill that is not burning. Close lid. cook for 50 minutes, checking
halfway through cooking time to see if the water in pan has
evaporated.

TO SERVE: Heat tomato sauce. Divide peppers among plates. pour 1/4 cup
sauce around bottom of each stuffed pepper. Serve.

Found in this mornings St. Paul Pioneer Press

MM format courtesy Mary Riemerman
Submitted By MARY RIEMERMAN   On   10-01-95

