Title: Tangy Catsup
Categories: Can/preserv, Condiments
Yield: 5 servings
1 ea Clove garlic; peeled
1 ea Stick cinnamon
2 c  Vinegar
1/2 c  Sugar
1 tb Celery salt
8 qt Ripe tomatoes
3 ea Onions
2 ea Dried red peppers; chopped
1 1/2 ea Bay leaves
1 tb Whole allspice
Tangy and fragrant, this catsup is easy to make if you use a blender
to simplify the preparation. The recipe makes about 5 pints. In
addition to the basic equipment, you will need a blender or food
processor, a large mixing bowl, and a cheesecloth spice bag.

1. Organize and prepare ingredients, equipment, and work space.

2. Wash, stem, and cut tomatoes into quarters. Peel and cut onions
into quarters.

3. Fill blender container almost to top with the tomatoes and blend
until smooth.

4. Set strainer over a large bowl and pour the blended tomatoes
through it. Repeat the blending and straining for the remaining
tomatoes, adding the onion quarters to the last blender batch of
tomatoes.

5. Measure 4 quarts of puree into a large preserving kettle.

6. Tie the spices in a cheesecloth bag and add it to the kettle,
along with all the remaining ingredients.

7. Heat to boiling over high heat, STIRRING CONSTANTLY. Then reduce
the heat slightly and boil until thick, about 1 hour, stirring
frequently. Reduce the heat again and stir more often during the end
of cooking time to prevent sticking.

8. Skim foam with a slotted spoon if necessary.

9. Ladle the hot catsup into hot jars to within 1/4 inch of tops. Run
a slim, non metal tool down along the inside of each jar to release
any air bubbles. Add additional catsup sauce, if necessary, to within
1/4 inch of tops of jars.

10. Wipe tops and threads of jars with a damp clean cloth.

11. Put on lids and screw bans as manufacturer directs.

12. Process in a boiling water bath for 10 minutes. Follow the basic
steps for boiling water bath canning, 10 through 18.

Source: Vegetable Gardening Encyclopedia Typos by Dorothy Flatman 1995
Submitted By DOROTHY FLATMAN   On   10-11-95

