Title: The Practical Kitchen #1
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 servings
No Ingredients Found
THE MAGIC KITCHEN TRIANGLE - Professional kitchen designers say that
well designed kitches consist of work triangle with the three points
being the sink, the range, and the refrigerator.  The theory calls
for the three center to be about equal distances from each other,
with distances being no less than 4 feet, and no more that 7 feet.
The total of the three sides should be less than 22 feet.  the basic
counter shapes that allow for this arrangement are the 'U' and 'L',
and galley shapes. This theory has withstood the test of time, so do
not ignore it if you choose to design your own kitchen.

WORK CENTERS - A well organized kitchen consists of a series of work
centers where the bulk of the equipment, utensils, food, and other
items needed for the center are within easy access.  for example, the
food preparation center should have xmall appliances, non perishables
and standard kitchen utensils such as knives and rolling pins.  Work
centers in the typical kitchen can be divided into the following
categories: the sink, refrigerator, rang/oven, food preparations,
pantry, and waste/compost centers. MULTIPLE COUNTER HEIGHTS - If you
are able, try to find a way to creat counters of varying heights. The
ideal counter height is determined by measuring the distance from
your elbow to the floor. Not only do our heights vary, but so does
the ideal height for different tasks.  Some tasks such as chopping,
rolling pie crust, and kneading bread are most comfortably done 6
inches lower than the standard counter height (36 inches), and the
ideal sink height is 2 inches higher than the standard counter
height.  If you cannot make different counter heights, you may be
able to install an adjustable counter that can be raised and lowered
to meet your needs. UPLIFTING TIP - If you cannot adjust the
counter's height, you can elevate yourself from the floor by standing
on a floor skid or low stool.  If you happen to be too tall for the
task at hand, you can raise the counter space by placing a large
cutting board on the counter or stacking several cutting boards.
FOOTSTOOL CONVENIENCE - If you are under 5'5", them most kitchens
were not designed for you. Solve the problem of having to stand on
your toes to reach into cabinets by investing in a footstool or
making one. CABINET SHELVES - The best material for shelves is
plastic laminate. They are low maintenance, easily cleaned, and often
quite attractive. Companies are coming out with increasingly more
varied and interesting patterns. Shelves should be thick, adjustable,
well made, and removable. NIX ON THE FORMALDEHYDE - Formaldehyde is
often used in the fabrication of paneling, hardwood plywood,
pareticleboard, and fiberboard. It also has been linked to cancer.
Try to use construction materials in you kitchen, and the rest of the
house, that are not made with formaldehyde. PANTRY INSPIRATIONS -
Convenience often dictates how you eat.  Provide a readily accessible
stock of whole foods snacks by installing a shallow bookshelf like
unit in the pantry.  Stock it with popcorn, nuts, druied fruits,
pretzels, and other goodies for the sake of your health and your
children's health.  You will all be more likey to snack on healthful
foods with this type of convenient shelving and supplies. Origin:
Household Hints + Formulas, by Erik Bruun. Shared by: Sharon Stevens,
Aug/95.

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   10-06-95

