Title: The Practical Kitchen #2
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 servings
Life much easier by having
-one sink devoted to food
-preparation and the
Other to cleaning up dishes
-and pots.
TWO SINKS ARE BETTER THAN
-ONE - Two sinks in a
-kitchen instead of one
Both allows for more than
-one person at a time to
-use the sink and makes
SINK SEATS - One of the more uncomfortable tasks in the kitchen is
leaning over a sink to wash.  You can alter the space under the sink
to allow you to bring up a chair or stool for a more comfortable way
of completing the task. WINDOW PLACEMENT - Try to put a window behind
the sink. It makes the job of washing much more pleasant.  Avoid
putting windows near or over a stove.  It will pose a serious fire
hazard if you install curtains. Place windows for maximum
ventilation. SKYLIGHT DELIGHT - A skylight can transform a dark, box
like kitchen into a sun drenched oasis of a kitchen. Although there
is sometimes a net energy loss from a skylight, the added light often
outweighs the downside. Skylights are an excellent way to improve
ventilation in a kitchen and make it easier to grow plants and indoor
vegetable gardens. LET THERE BE LIGHT - Studies have shown that there
is a direct correlation between light and health. Since the kitchen
is wher people get most of their sustenance, it makde sense that
light be a part of the equation. A liberal use of properly placed
windeows and skylights ensures adequate natural light. Aftificial
light is also key to a well designed kitchen. Professionals recommend
the following amounts of wattage for incandescent lights. * 80 square
feet: 182-308 watts for low ceilings; 224-392 watts for high
ceilings. * 140 square feet: 280-462 watts for low ceilings; 322-546
watts for high ceilings. * 250 square feet: 420-700 watts for low
ceilings; 508-840 watts for high ceilings. For fluorescent lights,
subtract the total wattage by about 30 percent for the equivalent
amount.  Low ceilings are defined as being 7 feet. High ceilings are
over 10 feet. MIRROR ENHANCERS - In China, mirrors are often used in
kitchens to creat a more peaceful atmosphere. You may want to import
this idea and use mirrors to brighten the kitchen and make the room
appear larger.  the only drawback is that kitchen mirrors have a
tendency to steam up. FLOOR CHOICES - Conventional wisdom says that
tile and stone floors are the way to go, but they are also cold on
the feet and very hard surfaces. Vinyl and linoleum floors are
relatively easy to maintain. Carpets absorb sound and are soft, but
maintenance can be very difficult with spills and all.  wood offers
the bestof all the options, a happy medium of attractivenss, easy
maintenance, and comfort.  Oak, maple, birch, cherry, and pecan are
all suitable for wood floors.  Dark woods hide the grim and dirt the
best. KITCHEN APPLIANCE MUSTS - The food processor, toaster oven and
mini vacuum are all wonderful utensils for any kitchen. Food
processors save enormus amounts of time with their capacity for
slicing, dicing, whipping, chopping, shredding, pureeing and more.
Toster ovens can do many of the jobs of a full fledged oven but with
a fraction of the energy. Mini vacuums are a big plus in any kitchen
for easy cleanup tasks on dry messes. There are some new mini vacuums
designed for wet messes as well, but they are more expensive.
Computers are another important tool for the kitchen. Origin:
Household Hints + Formulas, by Erik Bruun. Shared by: Sharon Stevens,
Aug/95.

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   10-06-95

