Title: Tomato Hornworm Wipeouts^
Categories: Kids, Holiday
Yield: 1 servings
8 oz Container whipped cream
Cheese
1 tb To 2 salad dressing
1    Cucumber
1    Extra large ripe tomato
1 pk (4oz) string cheese
MMMMM---------------------------TOOLS--------------------------------
Spoon
Butter knife
Plate
Carrot peeler
Paring knife
Cutting board
Bowl
With an adult's help, use a carrot peeler to remove the cucumber skin.
Discard the skin and continue peeling long thin strips the entire
length of the cucumber until you reach theseedy core. Set these
strips aside. Dice the seedy core into tiny pieces abo

You now need to remove the top of the tomato, much as you would the
top of a pumpkin to make a jack-o-lantern. Ask an adult to do the
following: Take a paring knife and carefully poke it into the tomato,
about 1 inch from the stem, pointing the knife at a

Using a spoon, scoop out the tomato's center, leaving a large, bowl
shaped space inside the tomato. Chop these tomato insides into tiny
pieces, drain off excess juice and add themto the cucumber.

Pull apart the pieces of string cheese into strips that are about the
width of a pencil. Cut each strip into thirds and set aside.

To make hornworms, use a butter knife to spread thin layers of cream
cheese onto each side of a cucumber strip. Then, using the cream
cheese as a "glue", wrap the cucumber in a coiling fashion around a
piece of string cheese, from one end of the cheese to

Blend the remaining cream cheese with one or two tablespoons of your
favorite salad dressing and stir into the cucumber and tomato. Spoon
this into your hollowed out tomato and refrigerate any extra.

Place the tomato on the center of a plate. Ask an adult to use a
paring knife to carve out three or four holes the same diameter as
the worms in various places on the tomato. Carefully insert the worms
into the holes and arrange others on the plate. Serve

Sicko serving suggestion: Cover the plate with torn lettuce leaves and
arrange worms crawling through gnawed out holes. Use cream cheese to
seal one worm inside a folded leaf as if it had made a cocoon.

From the Book: Gross Grub by Cheryl Porter Random House ISBN
0-679-86693-0

Shared by Carolyn Shaw 10-95
Submitted By CAROLYN SHAW   On   10-15-95

