Title: Tortelli Della Vigilia
Categories: Pasta/rice, Vegetables, Italian
Yield: 1 meal
MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
1 c  Parmigiano; freshly grated
;salt
;pepper
Nutmeg, freshly grated; to
-taste
3 lb Spinach, fresh
;salt, coarse-grained
15 oz Ricotta
2    Eggs, extra large
2    Eggs, extra large; yolks
-only
MMMMM---------------------------PASTA--------------------------------
4 ts Oil, olive; or vegetable
;salt, pinch of
4    Eggs, extra large
4 c  Flour, unbleached
MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
;pepper, fresh ground
Nutmeg, freshly grated
6 oz Butter, sweet; (1 1/2 stick)
1 1/2 c  Parmigiano; freshly grated
Rinse the spinach very well and cut off the larger stems, then cook
in a large quantity of boiling salted water for about 4 minutes.
Drain the spinach, cool it under cold running water, and squeeze dry.

Chop the spinach very fine, then place it in a bowl, along with
ricotta, eggs, egg yolks, Parmigiano, salt, pepper, and nutmeg.
Blend with a wooden spoon until the mixture is thoroughly combined,
then cover and let stand in the refrigerator until needed.

MAKING THE PASTA:  Place the flour in a mound on a pasta board.  Make
a well in the center and put in the egg, olive oil, and salt.  With a
fork, first mix together the yolk, the white, oil and salt, then
begin to incorporate the flour from the inner rim of the well, always
incorporating fresh flour from the lower part, pushing it under the
dough to keep the dough detached.

When almost half of the  flour has been absorbed, start kneading,
always using the palms of you hands in a folding motion, not the
fingers. Continue absorbing the flour until almost all of it has been
incorporated. The small fraction of flour that remains unabsorbed
should be passed through a sifter to remove bits of dough and kept to
coat dough during the succeeding steps. Now you are ready to use the
pasta machine.   HINT: divide the dough into as many pieces as the
number of eggs you incorporated before rolling. Follow directions of
your machine.

For directions on making Tortelline, see separate information recipe.

Begin preparing the sauce by melting 8 tablespoons (4 oz) of the
butter in a saucepan;  let stand, covered, until needed.

Bring a large quantity of cold water to a boil in a stockpot.
Meanwhile, prepare a serving dish by pouring in half the melted
butter.  When the water is boiling, add coarse salt to taste, then
the tortelli quickly but gently, being careful not to break them.  If
the tortelli have been made as much as an hour or two before, they
will cook and rise to surface of water in 1 minute.  If they are
already dried, cooking time will be longer (about 3 to 4 minutes).
Remove the tortelli with a strainer-skimmer and place them on the
prepared serving dish.

Pour the rest of the melted butter over the tortelli, arrange the
remaining 4 tablespoons of butter, in pats on top then sprinkle the
Parmigiano, freshly ground black pepper, freshly grated nutmeg, and
serve.

Source:  "The Fine Art of Italian Cooking" by Giulian Bugialli
Submitted By MARGARET YOUNG   On   10-28-95

