Title: Vegetarian Chili (vegan, with honey)
Categories: Vegetables
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM-----------------FOR WES, THIS IS BEAN STEW----------------------
1 tb Tumeric
2 tb Oil
1 lg Onion; chopped
2 cl Garlic; minced, to 4cl
1 lg Can crushed tomatoes
-and puree
1 tb Honey
1 tb Salt; to taste
Cayenne to taste
1/2 lb Each pinto and kidney beans
2    Ancho/poblano chilies
-toasted, 2-4 of em
2    Dry chipotle chilies
-opt
1    Bottle good lager beer
4    Bay leaves, toasted
2 tb Mexican oregano; toasted
3 tb Cumin; toasted
Sort and rinse beans.  Cover with water plus 2 inches in a large pot,
bring to a boil for 1 min, and remove from heat.  Let sit 1 hour,
drain, and cover again with water.  Bring to a simmer.  Continue to
check and add water til half cooked--about 1/2 hour.

Meanwhile, seed and core both kinds of chilis.  Toast the anchos by
spreading them flat in a heavy pan over medium heat, then cover with a
heavy weight (kettle of water).  Turn repeatedly, being careful not to
scorch them.  Let the chilis cool, then crumble both kinds and soak
in the beer 15 mins.  Grind in a blender til coarse.  Beware of the
fumes from toasting the chilis, and the oils from chilis on your
hands!

Now toast the bay leaves, oregano and cumin in the heavy pan, each
separately, then grind together coarsley with the tumeric in a spice
grinder or mortar and pestle.

Saute the onions til translucent, add the garlic and saute 5 mins more
without browning.  Add the dry ground spices and saute 2 more mins.
Add ground chilis and beer and simmer briefly.

Add the onions/spices/beer, tomatoes, honey and salt to beans, and
continue to cook 1+ hour, stirring frequently.  After the first 1/2
hour, adjust the salt and heat.  After the first hour, use a potato
masher to smash some of the beans to thicken the chili.  Beware of
burning the chili as it thickens.
Secret tip: try to keep the beans barely covered with water; you can
always add more.  If there is too much liquid, skim off, reduce in
saute pan and add it back instead of trying to simmer it off the top
of the chili pot.
Posted by Andrew MacMillen on the internet
Typed by Lisa Greenwood
Submitted By LISA GREENWOOD   On   11-11-95

