Title: Why Paul McCartney Won't Touch A Big Mac (Part 3)
Categories: Information, Vegetarian
Yield: 1 servings
-bangers and burgers made
-of Textured Vegetable
Protein.
I remember we had Steve
-Martin, the comedian to
-our house and I
Was barbecuing these
So I opened it up and said "There you go Steve". And a look of horror
came on his face as he said "Oh, I'm afraid I won't be able to eat
any of that". Of course, when I expiained it was all vegetarian, he
had about four of 'em stuffed in his face. Linda says if you can take
the truck driver, the guy who picks up a quick burger because he's in
a hurry and wants something nutritious; if you can slip him a
vege-burger and he eats it and is happy with the taste, then you're
really getting somewhere. I find it exciting because we're finding
more and more vegetarian products that are so realistic - so much so
that some of our vegetarian friends won't eat them because they think
they taste too much like meat. You see these signs in America saying
"real meat for real people" but I think that's just funny. I notice
those sort of campaigns and I notice it implies that people like us
are wimps - which I pretty much know I'm not. I rememberJames Garner
did a series of commercials saying "real men eat real meat", doing
the "rabbit food" joke. And a while after that campaign ended he had
a heart attack. But to give him the benefit of the doubt, I'm sure he
didn't know what he was doing. I find it a little bit amusing that
I'm sure people don't understand what is going on. Because what
happens, like me and like Linda and like most of us, you grow up with
your Mum and Dad saying "Eat your meat it's good for you" and,
secondly, it's our tradition to do so. We're British and British
people eat meat steeped in our traditions, and that is a very
important thing in people's consciousness. The other great thing is
that our tradition is changing. You would never have seen wine on the
table when we were kids. Now even ordinary British people can have a
bottle of wine with their meals. It's like you would never have seen
us eating curries when I was a kid, but we all do now. So along with
all that I think it's perfectly feasible for people to change. The
other thing, talking about this transition thing we're going through,
is that I don't think people realise that when they're eating meat
they don't want to think that this animal you're eating has had its
throat slit, or that it's died in pain that it's been hung upside
down and bled. When people start talking about that at meal-times you
say, "oh come on, leave it out". You want your chicken pre-packed and
clean; women do not want to stuff their hands up into a chicken and
pull out the giblets. People try to hide the fact that they are
actually eating something that had a face and a heart, something that
had a soul. And that's another tradition; in most of the books you
read it holds that animals don't have souls - that's something I
don't agree with. I think it's so pompous of mankind to pronounce
that. What? Has somebody got inside an animal's head and found out?

Submitted By SAM LEFKOWITZ   On   10-28-95

