Title: Why Paul McCartney Won't Touch A Big Mac (Part 2)
Categories: Information, Vegetarian
Yield: 1 servings
No Ingredients Found
The difficult thing was that immediately there was a hole in the
middle of the plate every time you came to have a meal. Gradually
Linda started to fill it with spaghetti or a bit of quiche, then egg
dishes and cheese pies and it started to get really good and tasty.
Plus I brought in a lot of the English stuff; mashed potatoes and
rice pudding.

Anyway, litte by little she just sort of filled in and we never
noticed not having meat. Then the next big eye-opener for us was when
we went on holiday to Barbados and we went into a department store
and discovered these tinned sausages that were totally vegetarian.
And once we started looking for them we discovered a whole range of
these vegetarian products, similar to the ones that Linda is now
marketing under her own brand-name. Then what happens is that you
really get into it and start becoming activist because you realise
that what you're doing is helping to save these poor animals from
getting shunted into a slaughterhouse. And so the spiritual side of
your life changes. It was all brought into focus by our youngest
daughter Stella coming home from school one day and saying how they'd
been having this debate about eating meat and she said, "Mum, when we
were talking about it I had a really clear conscience". I thought
that's really strong, that, being able to give your kid a clear
conscience. So now it's all changed for us; it started out almost
like a childish thing because we both really loved animals it was
almost Disney at first, a love of the Disney bunny rabbits. It was
really odd your children have these toys of little rabbits and then
suddenly Daddy's chopping them up. There is always that terrible
point in your life when you have to give up on niceness and go for
real sort of horror. In fact, when I was a real little kid, when I
used to go off looking for frogs and sticklebacks, I actually used to
be very aware that when I grew up all this would have to end. But
things are changing - it's a lot easier to be a veggie these days.
Like when we were kids, vegetarians were people in saris. And then in
the sixties, you'd send out for a sandwich from a vegetarian
restaurant, and this piece of dried bread with a bit of lettuce on it
would come back and you'd be thinking "Oooer, dear me, I'm not sure
that I'd ever go vegetarian". But the way we eat now is so kind of
passionate, so sort of luscious the way that Linda cooks, that you
wouldn't hardly ever know you were a vegetarian in our house. Because
we've got it down now to an art and I think that's the secret - the
more you stick with it, the more you find little pleasures.

Submitted By SAM LEFKOWITZ   On   10-28-95

