Title: Why Paul McCartney Won't Touch A Big Mac (Part 4)
Categories: Information, Vegetarian
Yield: 1 servings
-from the supermarket
And all that. We want clean
-meat - but unfortunately
-there's no such
Thing...
It's very convenient, I
-think, to hide it all
-away. We want our
Meat clean, we want it
-pre-packed, no giblets,
My latest horror is deer farming - which means that deer now go to
slaughterhouses. So imagine this image of a row of Bambis going up the
conveyor belt with their little sad eyes. When you hear about things
like that, you've got to realise that our tradition has got out of
hand. You see my point is that we've won the race on earth. Humans
have won. There's no other animal, no species, is ever going to give
us a problem. No race of spiders could ever take us over. We could
zap 'em we've got the gear. There's no elephants ever going to rule
us, we've got guns for them - we've got atomic bombs for God's sake.
Any time we want to lose a species, we are the winners we can do it.
But we're not noble in our success - and I think this is going to be
the interesting new phase. That's what we've got to look forward to:
a nobility in success. It's not "be a good loser, son", it's "be a
good winner now". I look forward to the time when we can suddenly
think, "hey, we can relax a bit, we don't have to keep hating these
things". We can get a bit Disney about it. We can now start to learn
from the male gorillas. How does he pump up without steroids? He only
eats leaves. I think there's going to be some very interesting
developments in maybe 10, 20, 30 years. The other thing is that a
friend of Linda's said that human beings are conducting a gigantic
experiment on themselves in what they eat. You don't think that much
about what's in what you eat: I don't. Maybe as veggies we do a bit
more than other people- but not that much. It's not as if you've got
a car and you think "now I need exacty this octane of fuel in it".
You just wake up in the morning and go "what do I fancy today? I'll
have that and that and that", and you eat up until you feel full. But
you don't actually look at what would be good for this machine that
we are. Nobody actually puts in the correct octane not even the
strictest of people, I think. People don't think what's in their
meat. It's like Linda says - those animals are dead scared when they
go up that slaughterhouse ramp and some of that fear and that
adrenalin has got to chemically pass to their flesh - and it doesn't
sound good to me to eat that. But then we don't think period about
animals. People say fish don't have feelings. Come on! The human race
really is the most pompous thing going; it's funny, it's amusing.
It's definitely not serious - it's too wild to be serious. But I have
faith things will change. Reprinted with kind permission of Club
Sandwich No.57, (The McCartneys' Official Fan Club Magazine) MPL
Communications Ltd 1991 HTML by John Davis john@portsveg.demon.co.uk
From: jai@mantra.com (Dr. Jai Maharaj) Anil Kumar Subramani Graduate
Student in Mechanical Engineering

Submitted By SAM LEFKOWITZ   On   10-28-95

