Title: Wild Greens With Grilled Goat Cheese
Categories: Italian, Vegetables
Yield: 1 servings
The Italian Way; Judith
Barrett
ISBN 0-02-009078-1; 1994
INSALATA MISTICANZA CON
CAPRINO ALLA GRIGLIA
MAKES 4 SERVINGS
Source: Cooking Vegetables
Traditionally, a misticanza is a Roman salad made with a variety-
sometimes as many as twenty- of wild greens. Specialty greengrocers
in many areas of this country now sell what they are calling mesclun
and restaurants call field greens. It is the closest we can get to
approximating the Italian misticanza. If you can't find mesclun, use
a mixture of lettuce greens, arugula, radicchio, dandelion, and fresh
herbs. The grilled goat cheese is my own addition. I like the way its
sharp flavor complements the sweetness of the balsamic vinaigrette
and the mildly bitter taste of the greens.

6 cups mesclun (set note below) 4 ounces goat cheese, preferably log
shape, cut into 4 even-size pieces 1/2 cup plain bread crumbs Salt to
taste 3 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil 1 teaspoon balsamic vinegar

1. Preheat the oven broiler.

2. Place the greens in a serving bowl and refrigerate until ready to
serve.

3. Place the goat cheese pieces on a flat plate and pour the bread
crumbs over them, turning the pieces once to coat both sides. Using
your fingers, gently press the bread crumbs into the cheese. Transfer
the cheese to a piece of aluminum foil and place under the broiler.
Broil for 3 to 5 minutes, until the bread crumbs are brown.

4. Season the salad greens with salt, add the oil and vinegar, and
toss well. Arrange the greens on four individual serving plates, top
each serving with a piece of goat cheese, and serve.

Note: Mesclun comes washed and ready to serve. However, if you are
using lettuce and other greens, they should be rinsed in several
changes of cold water and dried.

Keywords: Radicchio, Salads, Scanned, SJK, Vinaigrette From
: Sallie Krebs, Sat 07 Oct 95 13:30, Area: COOKING

Date: 10-07-95 (19:57) (159)
From: Sallie Krebs
Fido: Cooking

