Title: ELAINE'S POTATO LATKES
Categories: Vegetables, Side dish, Jewish
Yield: 4 Servings
2 1/2 lb Idaho's; or Russet potatoes
-don't bother to peel
1 lg Onion; quartered
2    Eggs
1/4 c  Matzo meal
1 ts Salt
1/4 ts Fresh grated black pepper
Oil; for frying
Applesauce; homemade is best
1. If you are not peeling the potatoes, it is important to SCRUB them
well; with a veggie brush or a scotch brite pad.

2. Place the onions and the eggs in a Food Processor. ZAP the mixture
a few times until the onion is diced into crunchy bits, OR gone (Papa
prefers it that GONE way). Pour the contents of the Food Processor
bowl into a large bowl for mixing.

3. Cut the potatoes lengthwise to fit in the FP feed tube. I use the
medium grating blade and shred the potatoes. (Of course you can
always use the old fashioned reib eissen method which draws blood, OY)

4. When the potatoes are shredded put them in a colander over the
sink and squeeze. Let the mixture drip for a few minutes.

5. Pour the contents of the colander into the bowl with the onion and
egg mixture.  Add  the matzo meal, and salt and pepper.

6. In a large cast-iron skillet, pour in 1/4" of the oil. Over high
heat get the oil VERY HOT.  Use a 1/4 cup measure or a long-handled
serving spoon, start spooning the batter into the SKILLET. Flatten
each with a metal spatula to a diameter of 3" to 4".

7. Cook the latkes until golden brown on one side. Then turn over and
fry them some more.  When crispy on the outside and moist inside,
about 5 minutes per side, remove and place on several thickness of
paper towels or old supermarket bags (of course they should be
clean). Keep doing this until you run out of batter.

8. Serve the latkes immediately WITH APPLESAUCE or lately my apple
butter.

NOTE: I can't make these fast enough.  The children wait all year for
a bite, <g>!  I only make them on Pesach and Chanukah.

SOURCE: A Jewish Mother's Cookbook; Author, Elaine Radis; published
on disk by ONE COMMAND SOFTWARE, 1995.

From the MM database of Judi M. Phelps. jphelps@shell.portal.com or
jphelps@best.com

