Title: ENGLISH TRIFLE - GUY ATTWOOD
Categories: British, Ethnic, Desserts
Yield: 8 Servings
1    To 2 small pound or sponge
Cake - two days old
3/4 c  Raspberry jam
2    Half pints whipping cream
3/4 c  Cream sherry (use a good one
1    10 oz package frozen raspber
Thawed and drained
2    Recipes of custard (below)
Chocolate drizzle
-  not traditional
MMMMM--------------------------CUSTARD-------------------------------
4    Egg yolks
10 tb Whole milk (1/2 cup plus 2 T
3 tb Sugar
1/4 c  Whipping cream
2 1/2 ts Cornstarch dissolved in 2 Tb
1/2 ts Vanilla
1/8 ts Ground nutmeg
This recipe was given to me by my Grandmother who came over to
America in 1895 from England. I have altered it slightly. As far as I
know it is relatively original, or as original as any type of recipe,
such as this, can be. It is not only addictive and decadent but
pretty to look at as well. This is a special occasion dessert.

Whisk yolks in a medium saucepan. Gradually add sugar, whisking until
mixture is thick and lemon colored, about 1-2 minutes. Blend in milk,
whipping cream and cornstarch mix. Place over medium low heat and
cook, stirring constantly until mixture thickens, about 3-5 minutes.
DO NOT BOIL OR MIXTURE WILL SEPARATE.  Remove from heat and stir
until slightly cooled. Blend in vanilla and nutmeg. Transfer to a
bowl and repeat process for the two required for TRIFLE.

ASSEMBLY:  Whip the cream as your MaMa or Daddy taught you to do. In
your prettiest large crystal bowl (salad bowl size) place a little
less than half the whipped cream around the bottom and half way up
the sides. Break 1/2 of the cakes into bite sized pieces and drop
randomly all over the cream.  Drizzle sherry over all and drop
dollops of jam and slightly less than half of the drained raspberries
over the cake. Drizzle 1/2 of the thick but liquid custard over all.
Repeat for the next layer, reserving some raspberries for the top.
(Try to plan to end with a layer of jam and raspberries as the top of
the Trifle.)  Finally, completely cover the top with the remaining
whipped cream. Drizzle a little chocolate on top in any pattern you
think looks good. Add a few raspberries and stand back to receive
your raves.  To serve, merely scoop down and place on a pretty plate.

NOTE:  Make about 4 hours before serving. Cover with plastic wrap and
refrigerate.

