Title: FETTUCCINE WITH CRANBERRY BEANS & PESTO
Categories: Beans, Pasta, Wms-sonoma
Yield: 6 Servings
1 c  Cranberry beans -- dry
Measure
1 1/2 c  Fresh basil leaves -- firmly
Packed
1 c  Romano cheese -- grated
10 tb Extra virgin olive oil
1 lg Yellow onion -- chopped
4    Cloves garlic -- minced
2 c  Vegetable broth
1 lb Fettuccine -- semolina
1/2 c  Pine nuts -- toasted
Salt and pepper
Cook 1 cup of dried cranberry beans to be recipe-ready. Follow package

In a blender or food processor fitted with the metal blade, combine
the basil, cheese and 6 tablespoons of olive oil. Process until
smooth. Set aside. Toast the pine nuts in a dry skillet over medium
heat for 4 to 5 minutes.  Set aside. In a large frying pan over
medium heat, warm the remaining 4 tablespoons olive oil. Add the
onion and garlic and saute, stirring until soft, about 10 minutes.
Add the stock and the (rinsed) beans, bring to a boil, reduce the
heat to low and simmer, uncovered, until the stock is reduced by
one-fourth (5 to 10 minutes). Meanwhile, cook the fettuccine until al
dente (refer to package for times). Drain and place in a warmed
serving bowl. Add the bean mixture, basil mixture, pine nuts. Taste
and season with salt and pepper (freshly grind). Toss and serve.
Optional garnish: whole basil leaves.

Alternative Ingredients-- Beans: Try kidney, cannellini, chick-peas,
small white beans, black-eyes peas. (Borlotti is Italian for
Cranberry beans) Pasta: Two-color - egg and a spinach-egg. Try
linguine. Pesto: Equal parts of basil and flat-leaf parsley or add a
little cilantro. Cheese: romano, pecorino, parmesan -- freshly grated
Broth: chicken or vegetable or water or some combination.

Cooks Note:  You can drastically cut back the olive oil by using
spray and Sweat-frying whenever possible. Do add a little light oil
for flavor and texture to the final bean sauce. Recipe By
: Williams-Sonoma
1994.    Beans and Rice / Joanne Weir

Date: Mon, 15 Jul 1996 14:00:51
From: Hp_walls@woco.Ohio.Gov
~0400 (

