Title: ITALIAN WHOLE WHEAT FOCACCIA CRACKERS
Categories: Crackers
Yield: 1 Servings
1/2 pk (1-1/8 teaspoons) active
Dry yeast
1/2 ts Sugar
3/4 c  Warm water
1 1/3 c  All-purpose flour
1/2 c  Whole wheat flour
3/4 ts Salt
2 tb Shortening
Olive oil for the tops
"This is an adaptation of Italian focaccia. It is one of the most
crispy and crunchy crackers, as well as one of the most substantial.
Try serving Focaccia Crackers with soft cheese or garlic-flavored
cream cheese. It is somewhat more difficult to make than most other
crackers, but worth twice the trouble. 375~F. 20 to 30 minutes

In a small bowl, combine the yeast with the sugar and 1/4 cup of the
warm water. Set aside in a warm place until the mixture starts to
foam, about 5 to 10 minutes.

Combine the flours and salt in a large bowl or in the food processor.
Cut in the shortening until the mixture resembles coarse meal. Stir
in the yeast mixture and the remaining 1/2 cup warm water. Blend to
form a dough that will hold together in a cohesive ball.

Knead well by hand for about 10 minutes on a lightly floured surface
or by pulsing about 25 seconds in the food processor. Knead until the
dough is smooth and springy to the touch.

Place the dough in a lightly oiled bowl and turn it over to coat all
sides. Cover with a damp towel and set the dough in a warm place
until it has doubled in bulk, about 1-1/2 to 2 hours.

Punch the dough down and turn it out onto a lightly floured surface or
pastry cloth. Roll it into a rectangular shape approximately 1/4 inch
thick. Place the dough on a lightly greased or parchment-lined baking
sheet, cover with a damp towel, and let it rise for another 35 to 45
minutes.

Using both hands, gently push your fingertips all over the top of the
risen dough, leaving indentations throughout. Cover it with a damp
towel again and put in a warm place until doubled in bulk, about
1-1/2 to
2    hours.

Preheat the oven to 375~F. With your fingers or a soft pastry brush,
lightly brush the top with olive oil. Bake for 20 to 30 minutes,
until very crisp. Cool on a rack. When cooled, break into small,
irregularly shaped pieces, or into 2 large crackers that can be
broken off as they are nibbled.

VARIATIONS: Sprinkle the top of the dough with rosemary, basil, or
your favorite herb after brushing with the olive oil.

