Title: JACK JUBILEE
Categories: Casseroles
Yield: 6 Servings
1 md Onion, finely chopped
2 tb Butter
8 oz Tomato sauce
-(1 large can)
4 oz Green chili peppers,
-chopped (1 can)
1/2 ts Salt
2    Eggs, slightly beaten
1 c  Half-and-half
-(or light cream)
11 oz Corn chips (one package)
1/2 lb Monterey jack cheese
-(cut into 1/2 inch cubes)
1/2 c  Cheddar cheese (shredded)
Paprika
1 c  Sour cream
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.  Saute onion in butter until
transparent. Stir in tomato sauce, chopped peppers and salt. Simmer 5
minutes. Remove from heat. Combine eggs and cream. Stir into sauce.

Place half the corn chips in bottom of a 1 1/2 quart casserole. Add in
layers, half the Monterey Jack cheese, half the sauce. Repeat. Top
with sour cream. Sprinkle with shredded cheddar cheese and paprika.
Bake, uncovered, for 30 minutes.

NOTES:

*  A casserole made with jack cheese -- I got this recipe from the
National Dairy Council.  It's good winter food; easy to make and rich.

Don't let the corn chips put you off; normally, such an ingredient
would make me think it's one of those recipes for people who don't
like to cook and don't care about good food. Take my word for it:
this recipe is an exception.

*  Ingredient notes for non-US cooks:  Monterey Jack cheese is a bland
American cheddar from Monterey, California. Try substituting Dunlop
(Scottish), Lancashire (English), or Cantal (French). Half and half
is a dairy product that is 50 percent whole milk and 50 percent heavy
cream; light cream makes a reasonable substitute. Corn chips, often
sold as "Fritos" or "Doritos," are a packaged snack food made of
deep-fried pressed cornmeal. I cannot think of any reasonable
substitute for them in this recipe.  [Ed.]

: Difficulty:  easy.
: Time:  20 minutes preparation, 30 minutes cooking.
: Precision:  approximate measurement OK.

: Jeff Lichtman at rtech (Relational Technology, Inc.; Alameda,
California) : Saints should always be judged guilty until they are
proved innocent... :
: {amdahl, sun}!rtech!jeff
: {ucbvax, decvax}!mtxinu!rtech!jeff

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

