Title: JACQUES CAGNA'S CHOCOLATE MOUSSE LOAF
Categories: Chocolate, Mousses
Yield: 8 Servings
1 1/2 c  Walnuts
1 tb White Vinegar
1 tb Water
6 oz Unsalted Butter -- melted &
Hot
6 lg Egg Whites
12 oz Semisweet Chocolate
3 tb Cocoa
1/3 c  Sugar
1 pn Salt
4 lg Egg Yolks
Butter sides & bottom of 1 qt glass loaf pan. Line bottom with
parchment paper and butter paper.

In food processor, grate walnuts. Spread 1 c over bottom & sides of
prepared pan.

Put egg whites in clean food processor work bowl. Process 8 seconds,
the pour in combined vinegar & water while machine is running.
Process for 1 minute & 45 seconds, or until egg whites are whipped &
hold their shape. Gently transfer to mixing bowl. Do not wash work
bowl.

Put chocolate, cocoa, sugar, & salt into work bowl. Turn the machine
on & off 4 times to chop the chocolate coarsley, then process for 1
minute until chocolate is finely chopped. With the machine running,
pour the hot butter through the feed tube and process for 1 minute,
until the chocolate is completely melted, stopping once to scrape
down the sides of the workbowl.

Add the egg yolks and process 10 seconds. Spoon egg whites onto the
mixture in a ring. Turn the machine on & off twice. Run a spatula
around the sides of the workbowl to loosen the mixture. Turn machine
on & off 3 more times until the ingredients are mixed. Some streaks
of white may be visible; do not overprocess.

Transfer to the prepared pan. Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate
for 3 hours, or until well chilled.

Carefully separate the mousse from the pan using a thin knife or
flexible spatula. Invert onto a serving platter and remove the pan.
Press the remaining walnuts into any bare spots. Let the loaf set at
room temperature for 1/2 hour before serving.

Makes 8-10 servings.

Note: the mousse can be prepared up to 1 month in advance, covered
airtight and frozen. Let thaw, covered, for 24 hours in refrigerator.

from Abby Mandel's Cuisinart Classroom

: Sharon Beck <ao852@FREENET.  BUFFALO. EDU>
Recipe By

