Title: JAMAICAN-STYLE SPARERIBS
Categories: Jamaican, Pork, Ceideburg 2
Yield: 6 Servings
3    To 4-pound slab of pork
-spareribs
3/4 c  Coarsely chopped onion
4    Cloves garlic, quartered
2    To 4 fresh or canned
-jalapeno peppers, seeded
-and chopped
2 tb Ground allspice
1 tb Minced fresh ginger
1 tb Salad oil
1 ts Ground nutmeg
1 ts Salt
About 12 fresh bay leaves *
Lime-Dressed Avocado
-(recipe below)
1 lg Papaya [VERY optional, S.C.]
* Or dry bay leaves soaked in water for about 1 hour.

Grilling time: 1 to 1 1/4 hours

Made this for dinner Sunday.  Thought the ribs got a tad over done.
Next time I'll cut the cooking time by about fifteen minutes. The
recipe doesn't call this a "jerk" type dish, but the spices are
similar and the slashes in the meat are right up that alley.

Make 1/4-inch-deep slashes between ribs on both sides of spareribs
slab.

In a food processor or blender, combine onion, garlic, jalapeno
peppers, allspice, ginger, oil, nutmeg and salt. Whirl until pureed.
Rub spice puree over surface and into slashes on both sides of
spareribs slab. cover and let stand for 1 to 2 hours (or refrigerate
until next day).

Barbecue ribs by indirect heat.  Distribute bay leaves over meaty
sides of ribs; then place ribs, meat side up, on grill directly above
drip pan. Cover barbecue and adjust dampers as necessary to maintain
an even heat. Cook until ribs are well browned on outside and meat
near bone is no longer pink; cut to test (1 to 1 1/4 hours). Near end
of cooking time, prepare Lime-Dressed Avocado; also cut papaya into
wedges.

To serve, cut spareribs into 2- to 3-rib portions. Arrange on a large
platter with avocados and papayas. Makes 4 to 6 servings.

Makes 4 to 6 servings.

LIME-DRESSED AVOCADO:

In a small bowl, stir together 3 tablespoons each lime juice and
salad oil, 1 teaspoon sugar and 1/8 teaspoon each red pepper flakes
and oregano leaves.  Season to taste with salt.

Cut 3 large ripe avocados in half lengthwise; pit, but do not peel.
Pour equal amounts of lime dressing into each avocado cavity, making
sure all cut surfaces are coated.

Makes 6 servings.

Got this from a flier for a new cookbook, the Sunset "Ultimate Grill
Book".

Posted by Stephen Ceideberg; April 24 1991.

