Title: JAMES BEARD'S PERSIMMON BREAD
Categories: Favorite, Bread, Fruit, Liquor, Posted-mm
Yield: 4 Loaves
3 1/2 c  Sifted all-purpose flour
1 1/2 ts Salt
2 ts Baking soda
1 ts Ground mace
2 c  To 2 1/2 cups
-granulated sugar
1 c  Butter, melted
4 lg Eggs, lightly beaten
2/3 c  Cognac or bourbon
*REMY MARTIN Suzy's choice
2 c  Persimmon puree (the pulp
Of about 4md. persimmons -
- not necessary to peel
2 c  Coarsely chopped walnuts
-optional
2 c  Raisins -optional
Source: Beard on Bread 1973

Sift all five dry ingredients into a mixing bowl. Then make a well in
the center and add the melted butter, egg, Cognac, persimmon puree,
and if you like, the nuts and raisins. Mix the dough until it is
quite smooth. smooth. Butter and flour four molds*, fill them about
three-fourths full,, and bake for 1 hr. at 350° F. Cool the loaves in
the molds and turn out on a rack.

NOTE: Wrap in foil after cooling if you wish to keep them. They will
keep nicely from 1 to 2 weeks.

Persimmons grow in many countries of the world, but often, as in
France, they are left hanging on the trees. In this country (USA) we
have learned to appreciate their superb deep-orange color, their
shape, and their delicate flavor, and they are becoming increasingly
popular. In earlier times they were allowed to ripen on the trees
until dead ripe before being eaten raw or used for puddings, cookies,
and breads. Nowadays they show up in our markets in a firm state and
must be left at room temperature for several days or a week to ripen
until they are almost mushy.

This old recipe, sent to me by a dear friend from the Middle West,
makes a bread that is almost cakelike in texture. Spread with good
fresh butter, it is very pleasant to eat along with a cup of tea or
to use for a cream-cheese Sandwich. It is unusual, rich, and
thoroughly delicious.

*Traditionally this bread is baked in four 1-pound buttered and
floured coffee cans, but you can use 3- to 4-cup charlotte molds (my
preference, (JB) round Pyrex dishes, or round stainless steel bowls.

James Beard

Makes: [4 round leaves]

*I use Remy Martin and coffee cans as molds for gift giving holiday
time. This is a fabulous recipe!

Suzy

From the recipe files of suzy@gannett

