Title: JAMES BEARD'S SOURDOUGH RYE
Categories: Breads
Yield: 2 Servings
2 pk Active dry yeast
3 1/4 c  Warm water (100-115 deg)
6 c  All-purpose flour (approx)
2 c  Rye flour
2 ts Salt
1 tb Caraway seeds
1 1/2 ts Poppy seeds
2 tb Melted butter
3 tb Granulated sugar
Cornmeal
1    Egg, lightly beaten in
1 tb Water
Four days ahead of breadmaking, prepare the "starter". Combine 1
package of the yeast, 2 cups warm water, and 2 cups all-purpose flour
in a plastic bowl or container. Cover tightly and let stand for 2
days at room temperature. Then refrigerate for at least another day
(see note below).

The day before preparing the dough, combine 1 cup of starter, the rye
flour, and 1 cup warm water in a bowl. Cover with plastic wrap and let
stand overnight at room temperature. The next day stir down the dough
and add the second package of yeast, dissolved in 1/4 cup warm water,
salt, caraway seeds, poppy seeds, butter, and sugar.
Then add up to 4 cups all-purpose flour, 1 cup at a time, to make a
stiff but workable dough.  Knead for 10 to 12 minutes, then shape
into a ball. Place in a buttered bowl, turning to coat the dough with
the butter. Cover and let rise in a warm, draft-free place until
doubled in bulk, about two hours.

Punch down and divide the dough in half. Shape into two round loaves
and place on buttered baking sheets generously sprinkled with
cornmeal.

Cover and let rise again until doubled in bulk, about 1 hour. Brush
with the egg wash, and bake in a preheated 375 deg F. oven for 30
minutes, or until lightly browned and the loaves sound hollow when
rapped with the knuckles. Cool, covered with towels to prevent the
crust from hardening.

NOTE: This will provide more starter than you need for this recipe.
To keep it going, replenish with equal parts of warm water and flour,
let stand again at room temperature, then refrigerate. Continue the
process each time you use some of it.

SOURCE: Beard on Bread by James A. Beard
A Borzoi Book published by Alfred A. Knopf, Inc.
ISBN 0-394-47345-0
October 23, 1973
:
:
:

Contributed by Wesley Pitts 11/13/93

