Title: JAPANESE LUNCH NOODLES
Categories: Noodles, Entree
Yield: 4 Servings
8    Dried black mushrooms
-(shiitakes)
6 c  Hot water or stock
1    Sweet potato (12oz)
Peeled, cut in 1/2" dice
1    Leek, trimmed, washed,
And thinly sliced
1    Zucchini, cut widthwise
Into 1/4" slices
4 c  Stemmed kale leaves, cut
Crosswise into 1/2" strips
6 tb Miso (pref hatcho-miso)
Or to taste
6 tb Mirin or
A little less cream sherry
2 tb (to 3 tbs) fresh udon or
8 oz Dried udon or other pasta
6 oz (to 8 oz) very thinly sliced
Beef or chicken breast
1 bn Scallions, trimmed
Thinly sliced
Soak the mushrooms in 1 cup hot water or stock in a bowl until soft,
about 20 min. Stem the mushrooms and cut each cap in quarters,
reserving the soaking liquid. Bring 4 qts of water to a boil in a
large saucepan. Place the mushroom soaking liquid and remaining stock
in another large saucepan and bring to a boil. Add the sweet potato
and leek and simmer for 3 min. Add the zucchini, mushrooms, and kale
and cook until the vegetables are tender, about 2 min. Remove the pan
from the heat and stir in the miso, mirin, and honey or sugar. Stir
until all the miso is dissolved. Correct the seasoning, adding miso
or honey or sugar to taste; the broth should be highly seasoned. The
recipe can be prepared ahead to this stage. If preparing ahead, don't
boil the water for the noodles. Just before serving, cook the noodles
in the boiling water until tender but not soft, about 3 min for fresh
noodles, 8 min for dried. Drain the noodles in a colander. Stir them
into the broth with the beef or chicken and sliced scallions. Cook
the noodles until thoroughly heated, but do not let the broth boil;
you'll destroy some of the nutrients in the miso. Serve at once.

Note: Original recipe called for 10 oz tofu (pref extra-firm or firm
silken), cut widthwise into  1/4-inch slices. 6 to 8 oz thinly sliced
beef or chicken breast is a suggested substitute, but the recipe
doesn't say whether or not this should be cooked first.

High-Flavor, Low-Fat Pasta by Stephen Raichlen ISBN 0-670-86581-8 From
: Diane Lazarus

