Title: JELLO SNACKS FOR KIDS
Categories: Desserts, Snacks, Kids
Yield: 6 Servings
1    (12 oz) can frozen grape
-juice concentrate, thawed
3    Envelopes unflavored gelatin
1 1/2 c  (1 can) water
From: Vicki Lansky's CANDY book

GRAPE FINGER JELLO

Soften gelatin in grape juice. Boil the water, add the juice/ gelatin
mixture and stir til gelatin dissolves. Remove from heat, pour into a
lightly greased 9x13 pan and chill. Cut into squares when firm.
Refrigerate in a covered container. This is good lunch box and
traveling fare. It can go unrefrigerated up to 4 hours under normal
(not desert!) conditions.

Variation: substitute frozen cranberry juice cocktail concentrate for
grape juice. Or a 12 oz can frozen apple, pear, apple, juice
concentrate.

SLIPPERY CIRCLES

Let any of the recipes for finger jello stand and chill til thickened
which doesn't take very long (15 to 25 minutes). Place a spoonful of
the gelatin into each of 4 empty and clean 6 oz cans, such as usually
used for frozen orange juice. Cut a peeled banana in half and center
it in the can. Spoon in remaining gelatin. Chill till firm. To
unmold, dip to rim in warm water and let it slide out. Or remove
bottom of can if more appropriate. Cut into slices.

SUNSHINE SQUARES

(A Finger Jello that is good even for breakfast).

4 envelopes unflavored gelatin 3/4 cup pineapple juice 1 cup boiling
water 1/4 cup sugar 1 cup orange juice

Soften gelatin in pineapple juice. Add to boiling water and stir til
dissolved. Add sweetener and orange juice. Chill in a 9x9 inch pan,
then cut into squares. Refrigerate in a covered container. Variation:
If you wish to use honey instead of sugar, decrease the orange juice
by 1/8 of a cup.

APPLE RING SNACKS

Why pay for Weight Watchers Apple Snack when you can make your own?

Peel an apple and remove the core. Slice in rings. Place on alightly
greased cookie sheet, or on clear plastic wrap laid out on a cookie
sheet. Dry in an electric oven at low or warm temperatures, In a gas
oven the pilot light is sufficient. Drying takes 6-9 hours, making
this a good overnight project. The size of the apple slices and your
oven temperature are the variables you will have to experiment with.
The apples need not be dried to a crisp. Store in an airtight
container. These should last several weeks at room temperature. Good
for traveling!

