Title: JUMBO RAVIOLI
Categories: Italian, Meats, Pasta, Sauces
Yield: 4 Servings
1/2 c  Fresh basil leaves
2 lg Eggs
2 tb Olive oil
1/2 ts Salt
2 c  All-purpose flour, unsifted
VEAL FILLING:
1 tb Olive oil
1 lb Ground veal
1 sm Onion, chopped
1    Clove garlic, minced
2 lg Eggs
1/4 c  Parmesan cheese, grated
2 tb Fresh parsley, chopped
QUICK TOMATO SAUCE:
1 tb Olive oil
1 sm Onion, chopped
1    Clove garlic, minced
1 cn Tomato puree (1 Lb, 13 oz)
1/2 c  Water
1 ts Sugar (OPTIONAL)
1 ts Dried oregano leaves
1/2 ts Dried basil leaves
1/2 ts Salt
1 tb Olive oil
BASIL PASTA DOUGH:

Parmesan cheese, grated

Pasta Dough:  In food processor (or blender), puree basil, eggs, oil,
and salt.  (If using blender, pour into bowl; stir in enough flour to
make stiff dough.) Add 1 1/2 cups flour to processor; process for 5
seconds. With motor running, add enough flour so dough forms a ball.
Turn dough out onto lightly floured surface, and knead for a few
minutes until smooth and elastic, adding flour as necessary.  If
dough was not mixed in food processor, knead for about 5 minutes. Cut
dough in half and shape into balls.  Cover dough with inverted bowl;
rest for 1/2 hour.

Veal Filling:  Heat oil in skillet; add veal, onion, and garlic. Saute
until veal is cooked and moisture has evaporated, about 5 minutes.
Remove from heat; cool slightly. In food processor, process meat to a
paste. Mix in eggs, cheese, and parsley; cool.

Tomato Sauce:  Heat Oil in skillet or large saucepan over medium heat.
Saute onion and garlic until onion is translucent. Stir in tomato
puree and remaining sauce ingredients. Simmer, uncovered, for 15
minutes. Cover; keep warm until ready to use.

Ravioli:  On floured surface, roll half of dough into a 12-by-16 inch
rectangle; set aside on a towel.  Roll other half; score into 12 (4-
inch) squares.  Mound filling in center of squares. Brush water on
scored lines; lay other rectangle of pasta on top.  Press, with
fingers, around filling to seal.  Use pastry wheel or knife to cut
between the mounds. In a large saucepan, bring 2 quarts water and 1
tablespoon oil to a boil. Add ravioli; cook gently for 5 to 7
minutes, or until edges are tender. Remove with slotted utensil
(spoon or spatula). Serve with tomato sauce and cheese.

Makes 4 servings.

[McCall's COOKING SCHOOL No 12] Posted by Fred Peters.

