Title: JUNE MEYER'S AUTHENTIC HUNGARIAN DILL SUN PIC
Categories: Canning, Hungary
Yield: 1 Servings
Pickles, not cucumbers
Hot boiling water
Clean jars or bottles
MMMMM-------------------PER EACH QUART BOTTLE------------------------
1 ts Sugar
1 1/2 tb Salt
1 1/2    Shot glass of vinegar,
-about 2 1/2 Tbls.
1    Seed head and
-stem of dill
Boiling water to
-cover pickles
A family favorite is Dill pickles made in the summer sun. Nothing
could be easier to make or tastier to eat. All that is needed is a
secure place in the sunshine where your bottles of sun pickles can
sit unmolested by little children who can't wait for the pickles to
be sun cooked. The usual method was to collect the pickles every day
fresh off of the vine. This way you could have a fresh bottle going
every other day. We ate a lot of pickles. It takes a few days for the
pickles to cook. After they are done, the bottle is stored in the
refridgerator. Cold, crunchy, dilly. We kids would eat them like a
pop-sickle. The envy of all the neighbor hood kids. Regards, June
Meyer.

Wash pickles, and split the pickle down the middle with a knive so the
brine can flow through. Pack pickles in clean jars or bottles. Place
into bottles the sugar, salt, vinegar, and the dill weed. Pour
boiling water over the pickles to cover. Stir to mix up the brine,
and cover with a loose lid or plate and set bottle where the sun will
shine on it for several hours a day.

At first the pickles will be bright green, but in one or two days
days more or less depending on the amount of sun, the pickles will
absorb the brine and have the usual pickle look. The brine will
change also. When you remove a pickle always use a clean fork.
Otherwise you will contaminate the brine and spoil the pickle. Never
use your fingers unless you are going to finish the whole bottle in
one orgy of pickle eating. Store in the refridgerator.

P.S. Take the pickle bottles in at night. Raccoons have been know to
raid the bottle.

If you try one of my recipes please tell me what you think.
E-Mail me at: june4@interaccess.com WALT

