Title: JUNE MEYER'S AUTHENTIC HUNGARIAN SAUSAGE (KOL
Categories: Hungary, Sausage
Yield: 1 Servings
10 lb Coarse ground pork
-butt or pork shoulder
1/3 c  Imported mild Hungarian
-Paprika. (Do not
-substitute generic)
1/4 c  Salt
2    Heaping Tb
-ground Allspice
5    Or 6 garlic cloves
2 c  Water
My father was only 5 years old when he came to America from Romainia
in 1905. He made sausage, wine, beer, smoked bacon, and all the
Hungarian dishes that were brought to America by my maternal
relations. He had a gusto for life. Everything he did he did when
whistling. You knew he was happy.

Our city house always had a small smoke house at the back of the
yard. It was used to sugar cure bacon the hungarian way, and to smoke
links of Hungarian Sausage. My father would make sausage when it got
cold out, and we would eat some fresh cooked, and the rest would be
smoked and dried like pepperoni to be used in Potato Soup or
Sauerkraut dishes all winter long. (The fresh sausage freezes well.
Years ago we did not have large freezer, so sausage was smoked to
keep good).

This sausage is heavy on garlic and paprika. If you do not have a
sausage stuffer you can still make this sausage by making patties and
frying it in a pan. The recipe that follows is for fresh sausage.
Regards, June Meyer.

Bring water to boil, add peeled cloves of garlic and simmer 20
minutes. Fish out cloves of garlic and mash them with a little water.
Add this to remaining water and mix all of the garlic water into the
meat mix. Mix everything together well. Keep the meat mix cool. If
you stuff the mix into casings, let the sausages hang for a day in at
least 20 degrees. Smoke sausage according to your smoker
instructions. If you are not going to stuff into casings, form into
patties, wrap and freeze.

HOW TO COOK HUNGARIAN SAUSAGES

Take as many fresh links as needed and place in a heavy frying pan
with a cover. Pour water over the sausages so the links are in 1/2
inch of water. Cover.Start the water to a slow boil, turn down the
heat and simmer the sausage in the water until the sausage starts to
take on color. Turn the sausage over and add a little more water to
keep it from burning. When both sides are brownish, leave the cover
off and continue cooking slowly to cook away any remaining water.The
sausage should be a nice rich red brown. The aroma will be heavenly.

Dried and smoked sausage is used like pepperonni.

My brother Frank Wischler carries on the tradition of sausage making.
He makes Italian sausage by leaving out the PAPRIKA and the ALLSPICE.
Use 2 ounces of whole fennel seed instead.

This sausage is traditionally served with SOUR CREAM AND HORSERADISH
SAUCE. Potatos and a sauerkraut dish go well with this dish too.

If you try one of my recipes please tell me what you think.
E-Mail me at: june4@interaccess.com WALT

