Title: JUNE MEYER'S AUTHENTIC HUNGARIAN TARHONYA FOR
Categories: Hungary, Pasta, Dumpling
Yield: 25 Servings
2 lb Flour
7    Whole eggs
1 1/2 tb Salt
1 c  Water
Tarhonya can also be made in large bulk as the Ancient Hungarians
made. These were dried hard and stored in a large container for years
without spoiling. Regards, June Meyer.

Let the Tarhonya dry for 1/2 hour and then add to boiling water 1/2
cup at a time and cook till done.

Bulk Dried Tarhonya about 25 servings

In a small mixing bowl mix eggs with the water and salt. Beat well.
Put the flour in a large mixing bowl and add the egg mixture a little
at a time. Blend the dough with your hands in a rubbing motion as
though you were washing your hands with the palms open. The mix
should become uneven little pieces of dough the size of dried peas.
Break up any that look large. The mix should be somewhat uniform.
Spread out a tablecloth on a table and spread the Tarhonya on it in a
thin layer so that all the pieces are exposed to the air. Let dry
until very hard, this will take 3 or 4 days. While the mix is drying,
roll your fingers through to mix it up so all sides are exposed to
air. When you are sure that the mix has dried hard, store in a
container.

Note: Make Tarhonya in the hot summer, never during a rainy season or
the mix will never dry hard. If you have some particles that are
larger and are not hard, sift them out and let them dry separately.

To Bake Dried Tarhonya - serves 6

Brown 1/2 cup of dried Tarhonya in 3 Tbs. of butter or lard. Add 1
tsp. of salt, 1 Tbs. Hungarian Paprika and water to cover. Cover and
bake in the oven at 375 degrees. It will take about 35 minutes to 1
1/2 hours depending on the size and age of the dried Tarhonya. The
water should be absorbed when the Tarhonya is cooked.

Note: If you have a large pot of boiling soup, you can cook these
Tarhonya in the soup. Serve instead of potato, noodles, dumplings or
rice.

If you try one of my recipes please tell me what you think.
E-Mail me at: june4@interaccess.com

