Title: Arnaki Se Fillo (Lamb in Fillo)
Categories: Greek, Meats, Lamb
Yield: 6 servings
12    Fillo sheets
1/2 c  Butter; melted
Salt
3 md Tomatoes; peeled
1 ts Rigani or oregano
125 g  Feta cheese; cut in 6 slices
Karen Mintzias
6    Boneless lamb leg steaks *
Freshly ground black pepper
2 tb Butter or oil
2 md Onions; sliced
1    Garlic clove
*Note: Lamb steaks should be about 2 cm (3/4 inch) thick.

Serves: 6 Oven temperature: 200 C (400 F) Cooking time: 25-30 minutes

Trim steaks of most of the fat and shape neatly - trimmings can be used in
a ground lamb dish.  Season with pepper.

Heat butter or oil in a frying pan and brown steaks quickly on each side -
do not cook through.  Lift out onto a dish and leave until cool.  Add
onions to pan and fry gently until transparent, add garlic and remove from
heat.

Brush a sheet of fillo pastry with melted butter and place another sheet on
top, brushing again with butter.  Fold in half to make almost a square of
fillo.  Put aside and cover wtih a dry tea towel, then one dampened with
warm water.  Repeat with remaining fillo to give 6 prepared squares. Take
one square and brush top with butter - leave remaining pastry covered.
Place a lamb steak in the centre and season lightly with salt. Top with
onion-garlic mixture and cover with 2 slices of tomato.  Sprinkle with a
little rigani, salt and pepper and place a slice of feta cheese on top.
Bring up ends of fillo pastry and double-fold over top.  Fold in ends as
you would a package then tuck ends underneath.  This is known as a the
chemist's (druggist's) fold.  Place on a buttered baking tray.  Repeat with
remaining ingredients.

Brush tops and sides of packages lightly with melted butter and bake in a
preheated hot oven for 15 minutes.  Serve immediately if possible, though
they will survive in the oven with heat turned off for about 10 minutes.
Garnish with parsley sprigs and serve with boiled green beans or zucchini
dressed with olive and lemon juice.

Note:  Medallions of lamb cut from a trimmed loin can be used instead of
the steaks.  You will require 12, and place 2 in each package.

From: "The Complete Middle East Cookbook" by Tess Mallos. ISBN: 1 86302 069
1

Typed for you by Karen Mintzias

