Title: Arni Fricasse (Lamb Fricasse)
Categories: Greek, Meats, Lamb
Yield: 6 servings
2 tb Chopped parsley
1 ts Chopped dill or fennel, opt.
Salt and pepper
Prepared vegetable *see note
Karen Mintzias
1 lg Onion; chopped
2 tb Butter
1 kg Lean boneless lamb, cubed
1 c  Hot water
----------------------------EGG AND LEMON SAUCE----------------------------
1    Lemon (juice only)
Salt
Freshly ground white pepper
1 1/2 c  Stock
1 tb Cornflour
3    Eggs; separated
Serves: 4-6 Cooking time: 1 3/4 to 2 hours

In a heavy-based saucepan or Dutch oven gently fry onion in butter until
transparent.  Increase heat and add cubed lamb.  Cook, stirring constantly,
until meat juices evaporate.  Meat should not brown.  Reduce heat and add
hot water, herbs and salt and pepper to taste.  Cover and simmer gently for
1 to 1 1/2 hours.  Add prepared vegetable and continue to cook until lambe
and vegetables are tender.  Carefully drain liquid from pan into a
measuring jug and make up to 1 1/2 cups with hot water or stock. Keep pan
contents hot.

Make Egg and Lemon Sauce:  Bring stock to the boil.  Mix cornflour to a
paste with a little cold water and add to stock, stirring until thickened
and bubbling.  Let it boil for 1 minute.  In a bowl, beat egg whites until
stiff, add egg yolks and continue beating until light and fluffy.  Add
lemon juice gradually, beating constantly.  Gradually pour in boiling,
thickened stock, beating constantly.  Return sauce to pan and cook,
stirring constantly, over low heat for 1 to 2 minutes to cook the egg.  Do
not allow sauce to boil.  Remove from heat and continue to stir for 1
minute.  Season to taste.

Pour Egg and Lemon Sauce over lamb and vegetable, cover and leave at the
side of the stove for 5 minutes.  Arrange lamb and vegetable on a serving
dish and sprinkle with chopped herb.  Serve immediately with crusty bread
and a chilled white wine.

*Note:  Use any one of the following for the vegetable:

8-12 small globe artichoke hearts.  Add to meat about 1 hour and cook for
further 30-45 minutes.

500 g (1 lb) celery stalks cut into 8 cm (3 inch) lengths and blanched in
boiling, salted water for 5 minutes.  Drain, add to meat after 1 hour and
cook for further 45 minutes.  Pork can be used instead of lamb with this
vegetable.

4 heads endive, washed well and trimmed of any coarse leaves.  Slit heads
in half lengthways and blanch in boiling salted water for 2 minutes. Drain,
add to meat after 1 1/2 hours and cook for further 15 minutes.

4 small firm heads lettuce, washed well and quartered.  Place in a colander
and scald with boiling water.  Add after 1 1/2 hours and cook for further
15 minutes.

From: "The Complete Middle East Cookbook" by Tess Mallos. ISBN: 1 86302 069
1

Typed for you by Karen Mintzias

