Title: Banana Butterfinger Cake
Categories: Cakes, Chocolate
Yield: 12 servings
1 ts Vanilla extract
3/4 c  Sour cream
1 ts Baking soda
2 c  Mashed ripe bananas (about
5)
1 1/2 c  Chopped Butterfinger bars
(about 6 oz.)
2 1/4 c  Cake flour
1 ts Baking powder
1/2 ts Salt
1/16 c  (1 stick) unsalted butter,
Room temperature
1 1/2 c  Sugar
3 lg Eggs
1 tb Dark rum
-----------------------------------GLAZE-----------------------------------
2 ts Dark rum
1 ts Vanilla extract
1 3/4 c  Chopped Butterfinger bars
(about 7-1/2 oz)
2/3 c  Whipping cream
7 tb Unsalted butter, cut into
Large pieces
1 tb Light corn syrup
14 oz Semisweet chocolate, chopped
FOR CAKE: Position rack in top third of oven; preheat to 350-degree F.
Butter two 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 1-1/2-inch-high sides.  Line
bottoms with waxed paper rounds.  Butter and flour paper.

Sift flour, baking powder and salt into medium bowl.  Using electric mixer,
beat butter in large bowl until fluffy.  Gradually add sugar and beat 2
minutes.  Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Beat in
dark rum and vanilla extract.  Combine sour cream and baking soda in medium
bowl.  Add mashed bananas to sour cream mixture and stir until well
blended.  Add dry ingredients to butter mixture alternately with banana
mixture, beginning and ending with dry ingredients. Stir in chopped
Butterfinger bars.

Divide batter between prepared pans.  Bake until center of cake feels firm
and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 30 minutes. Cool in
pans on rack 10 minutes.  Run small knife around sides of cakes to loosen.
Turn out cakes onto racks and cook.  Peel off waxed paper. (Can be prepared
1 day ahead.  Wrap cakes tightly and store at room temperature.)

FOR GLAZE: Combine cream, butter and corn syrup in heavy medium saucepan.
Bring to simmer over medium heat, stirring unti butter melts. Remove from
heat; add chocolate and stir until melted and smooth. Stir in rum and
vanilla.  Pour glaze into small bowl.  Cover and refrigerate just until
cool and thick, stirring occasionally, about 40 minutes.

Transfer 1 cake layer to platter.  Slide waxed paper strips under edges of
cake.  Stir glaze until smooth.  Spread 1 cup glaze evenly over top of cake
layer.  Top with second cake layer.  Spread remaining glaze over top and
sides of cake.  Cover top and sides of cake with chopped Butterfinger bars.
Remove paper strips.  (Can be made 2 days ahead. Cover cake and store at
room temperature.)

SOURCE: BON APPETIT, June '93

