Title: Chocolate Coffee Cream Roll
Categories: Chocolate, Cakes/choc.
Yield: 6 servings
1/4 ts Salt
1 tb Cold water
3    Egg yolks
1 ts Unflavored gelatin
2 tb Instant coffee powder
1/2 c  Granulated sugar
1 ts Vanilla extract
1/4 c  All-purpose flour
1 c  Heavy cream
2 tb Unsalted butter
5 lg Eggs, separated
1/2 c  All-purpose flour
3/4 c  Granulated sugar
1/3 c  Plus 2 tb unsweetened cocoa
1 ts Vanilla extract
1/2 ts Salt
1/2 ts Baking powder
Coffee Cream Filling
1 1/2 c  Milk
Rich and delectable, this showy dessert makes an elegant finale to any
dinner. The coffee and cream flavors are the perfect complement to the
chocolate sponge roll.

1. Position a rack in the center of the oven and preheat to 400 degrees F.
Lightly grease a 17-by-11-inch jelly roll pan. Line with waxed paper and
grease and lightly flour the paper.

2. Prepare the chocolate roll. Melt the butter in a small pan and let it
cool slightly. In a medium-sized bowl stir together the flour, 1/3 cup of
the cocoa, and the baking powder.

3. In another medium-size bowl whisk together the 5 egg yolks, 1/4 cup of
the sugar, and the melted butter until light, about 1 minute. Whisk in the
vanilla. With a spoon, stir in about half of the dry ingredients.

4. In a large, deep bowl combine the egg whites and salt; with an electric
mixer, beat until soft peaks just begin to form. Gradually beat in the
remaining 1/2 cup sugar, beating just until stiff, glossy peaks form.

5. Fold about one-fourth (or a large spoonful) of the egg whites into the
egg yolk mixture to lighten. Turn this mixture into the bowl of egg whites
and partially fold together. Sift the remaining dry ingredients over the
top and quickly and gently but thoroughly fold together until no streaks
remain. Quickly spread in the prepared pan and bake 10 to 12 minutes, just
until the center top springs back when lightly touched.

6. Sift the remaining 2 tablespoons of cocoa onto a clean kitchen towel.
Invert the cake onto it and peel off the paper (if it has stuck or is
stubborn, lightly brush the paper with water before peeling off). With a
long, sharp knife or a serrated knife, trim away about 1/2 inch from each
edge. Start along one long side, roll up, jelly roll fashion. Wrap in the
towel and let cool to room temperature.

7. While roll cools, prepare the coffee cream. In a medium-sized saucepan
over low heat, scald the milk until tiny bubbles appear around the edges of
the surface. Place 1 tablespoon cold water in a cup and sprinkle the
gelatin over it. Let soften until needed.

8. In a medium-sized bowl stir together the sugar, flour, and salt.
Gradually whisk in the scalded milk. Place in a heavy medium-sized saucepan
over moderately low heat and, stirring constantly, cook until the mixture
thickens and comes to a simmer. Whisk in the egg yolks and continue cooking
and stirring until the mixture comes to a boil. Remove from the heat and
stir in the coffee powder and dissolved gelatin until smooth; stir in the
vanilla. Turn into a shallow bowl, cover with plastic wrap or waxed paper
placed directly on the surface, and cool just to room temperature.

9. Assemble the roll. Using chilled bowl and beaters, whip the cream until
stiff. Give the coffee cream filling a good stir and fold in about
one-fourth of the whipped cream to lighten. Turn the lightened coffee
filling into the whipped cream and fold together.

10. Carefully unroll the chocolate cake onto a board. Spread all of the
coffee cream over it, making it thicker along the side where you will begin
to reroll and leaving about 1 inch uncoated along the other long side.
Reroll the chocolate cake to enclose the filling. Leave it on the board,
seam side down, cover, and chill until set, at least 4 hours or overnight.
Trim the ends and cut into slices. Serve cold.

From: Jim Fobel's Old-Fashioned Baking Book

