Title: Chocolate Mousse Cake (Part One)
Categories: Chocolate, Cakes/choc.
Yield: 1 servings
--------------------------------FOR THE CAKE--------------------------------
1 pn Cream of tartar
2/3 c  Cake flour; SIFTED!!
9 oz Semisweet chocolate; chopped
- coarse
6    Egg yolks; room temperature
3/4 c  Sugar; + 1 tb
2 tb -Water
10 tb Unsalted butter
-Cut in pieces and softened
8 oz Semisweet chocolate;chopped
Coarse
6 tb Unsalted butter;cut into
Pieces, softened
8    Eggs;separated,room temp
1 c  Sugar
2 tb Orange flavored liqueur
1 tb Orange rind; grated
1/4 ts Salt; plus a pinch
------------------------SEE CHOCOLATE MOUSSE CAKE II------------------------
FOR THE CAKES: Butter two 9" round cake pans and line the bottoms with wax
paper, then butter the paper. Dust the pans with flour and knock out the
excess. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees.
In the top of a double boiler, heat the chocolate over hot water,
stirring, until just melted. Remove the pan from the heat and stir in the
butter, one tablespoon at a time. Continue to stir the mixture until
smooth. In the bowl of the mixer, beat the egg yolks until combined. Add 34
cup of the sugar, a little at a time, and continue to beat the mixture
until it falls in a ribbon when the beater is lifted.
Beat in the melted chocolate mixture, the liqueur and the orange pinch of
salt until frothy. Add the cream of tartar and beat the whites until they
hold soft peaks. Add the remaining 1/4 cup sugar, a little at a time, and
beat the whites until they are stiff. Sift the flour with the remaining 1/4
teaspoon salt onto a sheet of wax paper. Stir one fourth of the whites into
the batter. Fold in the remaining whites and sift and fold the flour
mixture in batches into the egg mixture until just combined.
Pour the batter into the cake pans, smoothing the tops, and bake the
layers in the middle of the oven for 30 to 35 minutes, or until a cake
tester inserted into the centers comes out clean. Let the cakes cool in the
pans on racks for 5 minutes, invert the cakes onto the racks, and remove
the wax paper carefully. Let the cakes cool completely. The cakes form a
thin crust that will flake off.

SEE PART TWO

