Title: Easy Cheese and Shrimp Gyozas (East/west)
Categories: Appetizers, Fish/sea, Cheese/eggs, Oriental
Yield: 4 servings
-chopped
1/2 lb Medium shrimp (41 to 40 per
-pound) shelled and deveined    1 1/4 c  Grated Monterey Jack cheese
-(about 5 ounces)
1 pk Round siu mai wrappers or
-won ton wrappers
LIME CREAM SAUCE
(see note)
1 tb Oil
2/3 c  Chicken stock
1 1/2 c  Heavy cream
1 tb Lime juice
1 1/2 ts Salt
1 ts Finely minced ginger or
-ginger juice
2 ts Dry sherry or rice wine
1 ts Cornstarch
5    Fresh water chestnuts,
-finely chopped
2    Green onions, chopped
1 1/2 tb Chopped fresh coriander
2    Chinese sausages, finely
Salt and white pepper to taste Sprigs of fresh coriander

Toss the shrimp with 1 teaspoon of the salt and let stand for 10 minutes.
Rinse thoroughly, drain and pat dry.

Finely chop shrimp and put them in a mixing bowl.

Add remaining salt, ginger, rice wine, cornstarch, water chestnuts, green
onions, coriander, sausage and cheese to mix- ture; mix thoroughly.

If you are using won ton wrappers, trim the corner to make a circle.

Place 1 heaping teaspoon filling in the center of 1 wrapper. Moisten the
edge of the wrapper with water and fold in half to enclose filling and form
a half-circle. Pinch the edges together to seal.

Set on a baking sheet; cover with a towel. Repeat with remaining filling
and wrappers.

To cook and sauce 4 servings, add 1 tablespoon of the oil to a 10-inch
nonstick skillet and set over medium heat.

Arrange 12 gyozas in one single layer; pan-fry for 1 minute or until
lightly browned. Turn the gyozas over to brown other side, about 1 minute
longer.

Add chicken stock, shake pan to prevent gyozas from stick- ing. Cover and
cook at low boil for 2 minutes. Remove gyozas to a plate; keep warm.

Increase heat under skillet to high, add cream; bring to a boil stirring
for 45 seconds until thickened. Stir in lime juice.

Season with salt and pepper.

To serve, divide the sauce among 4 plates. Arrange 3 gyozas on each.
Garnish with fresh coriander springs.

Note: There is enough filling to make 4 dozen gyozas. The amount of sauce
indicated above is enough for 12 gyozas. If you want to make more, multiple
the sauce ingredients, but bear in mind that you will have to make the
sauce separately as part of each batch. Freeze extra uncooked gyozas on a
baking sheet; when frozen, transfer them to a freezer bag. Do not defrost
before browning.

Makes 4 dozen gyozas. Serves 16.

