Title: Five Cheese Pizza
Categories: Pizza, Appetizers
Yield: 1 servings
-ed
3/4 c  Provolone cheese; grated
Coarse salt
Fresh ground pepper
1/2 c  Mozzarella cheese; grated
1/3 c  Bel paese cheese; slivered
-(get at italian groc.)
1/4 c  Gorgonzola cheese; crumbled
6 tb Parmesan; freshly grated (i
-mported is best)
1 tb Parsley; fresh, chopped
Whole wheat pizza dough (rec
-ipe) or basic crust
2 tb Pine nuts
2 tb Olive oil; plus additional
-for pan
Cornmeal for pan (optional)
1 ts White wine vinegar
1/2 ts Garlic; minced
1 sm Zucchini; thinly sliced (ab
-out 3/4 cup)
1/3 c  Red onion; very thinly slic
1.  Prepare Whole Wheat Pizza Dough through Step 3. 2. Heat small skillet
over low heat until hot to the touch.  Add pine nuts; reduce heat to very
low.  Toast pine nuts, shaking pan frequently, until evenly golden, about 2
minutes.  Set aside. 3. Heat oven to 500F. Oil a 12-inch pizza pan as
necessary for type of pan (see below for tips); sprinkle with cornmeal if
desired. 4. Combine 1 Tablespoon of the oil, the vinegar, and galric in
medium bowl; add zucchini and red onion, tossing to coat. 5. Complete Whole
Wheat Pizza Dough. 6. Place dough in prepared pan; brush surface with
remaining oil. Sprinkle half the provolone evenly over dough, leaving a
3/4-inch border; top with even layer of zucchini mixture. Sprinkle with
salt and pepper to taste, then with the remaining provolone, all the
mozzarella, Bel Paese, and Gorgonzola, and half the Parmesan. Sprinkle with
additional salt and pepper.  Bake until crust is golden, about 15 minutes.
Scatter pine nuts evenly over surface. Bake until pine nuts and crust are
browned, 3 to 5 minutes longer. Sprinkle with remaining Parmesan and the
parsley.  Serve immediately. Makes One 12-inch Pizza! Recipe from Cuisine,
November, 1984.  See Whole Wheat Pizza Dough recipe. Which Pan for Pizza?
Almost any type of pan can give good results, though directions for
brushing with oil and sprinkling with cornmeal differ slightly with each.
In fact, the use of cornmeal is not required to prevent sticking except
when using a pizza stone, but a little sprinkled on the surface of any pan
will give added texture to the crust. Tin-lined steel; aluminum round pizza
pans or baking sheets:
Generously brush the pan with olive oil. Black-finished metal baking
sheets and pizza pans:
Follow the manufacturer's directions for care.  Lightly brush bottom
and sides (if any) with olive oil. Pyrex pizza pan:
Generously brush pan with olive oil. Pizza Stone:
Stones require preheating in a 500F oven.  They require no oiling but
must be sprinkled with cornmeal to prevent sticking just before the pizza
is transferred from the peel (paddle).  The peel must also be sprinkled
with cornmeal before the uncooked pizza is place on it for transfer to the
heated pizza stone.  When removing the hot pizza stone from the oven, be
careful not to set it on a cold surface, or the stone will crack.

