Title: German White Chocolate Cake
Categories: Chocolate, German, Cakes/choc.
Yield: 6 servings
1 c  Shredded unsweetened coconut
1 c  Chopped pecans
Frosting
1 c  Evaporated milk
1 c  Sugar
1/4 lb Unsalted butter
3 lg Egg yolks
1 ts Vanilla extract
1 c  Chopped pecans
1 c  Shredded unsweetened coconut
2 1/2 c  Cake flour
1 ts Baking soda
1/2 lb Unsalted butter
1 1/2 c  Sugar
4 lg Eggs, separated
4 oz White chocolate, melted in
-1/2 c boiling water and
-cooled
1 ts Vanilla extract
1 c  Buttermilk
CAKE

1. Position the racks in the upper and lower thirds and preheat oven to 350
deg F. Lightly butter the bottom and sides of three 8 inch round cake pans.
Line the pans with parchment paper. Dust the bottom and sides with flour;
tap out the excess.

2. Into a medium bowl, sift the cake flour and the baking soda. Using an
electric mixer set at mdeium speed, cream the butter and the sugar in a
large bowl until light and fluffy, about 5 minutes. Beat in one egg yolk at
a time, blending well after each addition. Beat in the melted white
chocolate mixture and the vanilla. At low speed, blend in the sifted flour
mixture alternately with the buttermilk; do not overbeat. Fold in the
coconut and pecans.

3. Beat the egg whites until stiff peaks form.  Blend 1/3 of the egg whites
into the cake mixture to lighten it; carefully fold in the remaining egg
whites.  Spoon the batter into the prepared pans.

4. Bake until the cake springs back when touched in the center and a cake
tester inserted in the center of the pans comes out clean, about 35 to 40
minutes. Transfer the cakes in the pans to wire racks and cool 10 minutes.
Invert the cakes onto the wire racks, carefully peel off the parchment
paper, and cool completely.

FOR THE FROSTING:

5. In a heavy medium saucepan over medium heat, combine the evaporated
milk, sugar, butter, and egg yolks.  Simmer for 10 minutes, stirring
constantly. Do not let mixture boil fast; lower the heat if necessary.
Remove from heat and stir in the vanilla, pecans, and coconut. Plance the
saucepan into a bowl filled with ice and stir constantly until the frosting
is cool and slightly thickened.

6. Place a cake layer on a serving platter. Spread 1/4 of the frosting
evenly over the cake layer, making sure to spread it all the way to the
edges. Top with the second layer, and spread with 1/4 of the frosting. Top
with the third cake layer.  Evenly frost the top and sides of the cake with
the remaining frosting.

