Title: Herbed Chicken Pate
Categories: Appetizers, Poultry
Yield: 6 servings
1/8 ts Freshly grated nutmeg
2 1/4 c  Well-chilled whipping cream
1/2 c  Chicken broth
2 c  Tight-packed leaves spinach
2 c  Tight-packed leaves basil
3/4 c  Well-chilled whipping cream
2 lb Skinned/boned breast chicken
2/3 c  White part only leek
1/4 c  Shallots
3/4 c  Unsalted butter
3    Eggs whites only
1 1/2 ts Salt
1/4 ts Freshly ground pepper
(See also: Tomato & Garlic Sauce.) Cut chicken into 1/2-inch pieces. Puree
in processor in 2 batches to very smooth paste. Refrigerate until well
chilled, at least 1 hour.

Meanwhile, thinly slice leek and shallot. Melt butter in heavy small
skillet over low heat. Add leek and shallot and cook until soft, stirring
occasionally, about 15 minutes. Cool.

Combine half of chicken with half of leek mixture in processor. Puree until
smooth. Add half of egg whites and process until smooth. Transfer to bowl.
Repeat with remaining chicken, leek mixture and egg whites. Refrigerate
until well chilled.

Blend half of chicken mixture, salt, pepper and nutmeg in processor. With
machine running, slowly pour 1 cup plus 2 tablespoons cream through feed
tube. Blend 1 minute. Transfer to large bowl. Repeat with remaining
chicken, salt, pepper, nutmeg and 1 cup plus 2 tablespoons cream. Combine
both chicken mixtures.

Bring chicken broth to boil in large skillet. Add spinach and basil and
toss until just wilted, about 45 seconds. Drain well. Squeeze out any
remaining liquid. Puree spinach mixture with remaining 3/4 cup cream until
smooth. Blend in 1/4 of chicken mixture.

Preheat oven to 350 deg. Line 9x5-inch loaf pan with plastic wrap, leaving
5-inch overhang. Pour half of white chicken mixture into pan. Cover with
half of spinach mixture. Using knife, swirl through layers to create marble
effect. Repeat with remaining chicken and spinach. Tap pan on work surface
to settle pate. Fold overlapping plastic over top of pate. Cover pan
tightly with foil. Place loaf pan in deep roasting pan. Pour enough water
into roasting pan to come 2/3 up sides of loaf pan. Transfer to oven and
bake 1 1/4 hours. Cool. Weight pate with heavy object and refrigerate
overnight.

Unmold pate onto platter. Let stand at room temperature 1 hour before
serving. Pass Tomato & Garlic Sauce separately.

