Title: Jamaican Beef Patties
Categories: Beef, Appetizers
Yield: 24 servings
2 ts Each ground coriander,
-cumin, and tumeric
1 ts Each ground allspice and
-cinnamon
1    Green bell pepper, stemmed,
-seeded, and finely chopped
4    Tomatoes minced
1 bn Green onions, minced
Salt and pepper to taste
2    Eggs, lightly beaten
4 c  All purpose flour
1 ts Salt
1 1/4 c  Shortening
6    To 8 Tbsp ice water
Filling:
1 lg Onion, diced fine
4    Garlic cloves, minced
3    Jalapeno chilies, seeded,
-stemmed, and minced
3 tb Vegetable oil
3/4 lb Ground beef
Servings: 24 patties

Pastry:

Preheat the oven to 400 deg F.  To make the dough: place the flour and salt
in a large bowl; mix well.  Cut the shortening into small pieces about the
size of walnuts.  Add to the flour and, using your fingers, rub the flour
and shortening together, making a coarse, mealy dough.  Add the ice water
and gather the dough into a ball.  The dough should be firm and not sticky.
If the dough is too dry, add a little more water, but if the dough is too
sticky, add just enough flour to make it form a ball. Divide the dough into
2 equal balls and cover with plastic wrap. Refrigerate for at least 2 hours
or up to 2 days.

To make the filling: in a large skillet, cook the onion, garlic, and
chilies in the oil over moderate heat for about 10 minutes, stirring from
time to time.  Add the beef, herbs, spices, bell pepper, and tomatoes, and
cook over high heat for 5 minutes, stirring constantly until the mixture is
thick and saucy.  Add the green onions and cook for 1 minute. Season with
salt and pepper and cool to room temperature.

To assemble the patties:  on a lightly floured surface, divide each ball
into 2 equal balls, so that you have 4 equal balls.  Flatten into disc
shapes, then divide each disc into 6 equal pieces and roll each into a
ball.  Roll each ball into a 3 1/2 inch diameter circle.  Brush the edges
with beaten egg.  Place about 1 tablespoon of filling on one side of each
circle, leaving a 1/4 inch border.  Fold the dough over, making a half-moon
shape.  Seal the edges with the tines of a fork, and brush with the
remaining egg.

Bake on a lightly greased baking sheet for 25 to 30 minutes, or until the
patties are golden brown.  Remove from the oven and serve immediately.

Source: Rolled, Wrapped, and Stuffed by Janet Hazen Posted by Linda Davis

