Title: Mu Shu Pork
Categories: Appetizers, Pork/ham, Chinese
Yield: 6 servings
1/4 ts Salt
1/4 ts Freshly ground pepper
2    Green onions; cut into 1-in
Pao bin: (thin pancakes)
2 c  Flour
3/4 c  Boiling water (actually 3/4
Additional flour
2 tb Sesame oil
1/3 c  Dry lily flower*
1/2 c  Tree ears*
2 tb Peanut oil; or more
1/2 c  Pork; uncooked, shredded
2    Eggs; well beaten
2 c  Chinese cabbage; shredded
1/3 c  Water chestnuts; chopped
1 ts Garlic; minced
2 ts Soy sauce
* Dry lily flower and tree ears are available in Oriental markets.

MU SHU PORK:

Rinse dry lily flower and tree ears in cold water.  Soak in cold water to
cover 1 hour, until soft.  Drain and finely chop.

Heat wok.  When very hot, add peanut oil, turning wok to coat sides. Add
shredded pork and stir-fry 2 minutes.  Transfer to small bowl.

Add eggs to wok and stir-fry until cooked.  Add to bowl and mix with pork.

Heat more oil if necessary.  Quickly add shredded cabbage, chopped lily
flower and tree ears, water chestnuts and garlic and stir-fry about 2
minutes.  Thoroughly blend in pork and eggs.  Season with soy, salt and
pepper.  Add green onions and cook about 1 minute.  Taste for seasoning.

Place 2 to 3 tablespoons of Mu Shu Pork on each Pao Bin, roll up and serve.

Note:  We always spread some plum sauce on our pancake before putting on
filling and rolling.  Delicious.

PAO BIN (THIN PANCAKES):

If using food processor, place flour in work bowl.  With motor running, add
boiling water until dough forms ball.  Transfer to small bowl, cover with
damp towel and let stand 15 minutes.

If not using food processor, add boiling water gradually to flour, stirring
with wooden spoon.  When mixture forms mass (it will be lumpy), transfer to
floured board and knead until dough forms soft, smooth ball. Place in small
bowl, cover with damp towel and let stand 15 minutes.

Cut dough in half.  Place on lightly floured surface and roll each about
1/4-inch thick.  Cut into 2- to 2-1/2-inch circles.  Knead scraps together,
roll out and repeat to cut more circles.

Brush half of the circles with sesame oil.  Place each unoiled circle on 1
oiled circle.  With rolling pin, roll each pair of circles into larger
circle about 6 inches in diameter, keeping as round as possible.

Place ungreased 8-inch skillet over high heat to warm.  Reduce heat to
moderate.  Place 1 pancake in skillet and cook until it puffs and blisters,
about 30 seconds.  Turn and cook second side.  Flip onto towel and
carefully separate into 2 pancakes.  Stack on platter or on foil. When all
are cooked, wrap in foil and place in warm oven until ready to serve.

About 6 servings.

Recipe from Yang Tze, Honolulu, Hawaii. Published in Favorite Restaurant
Recipes, Bon Appetit, 1982.

