Title: Ravioli Filled W/pumpkin
Categories: Appetizers, Pasta
Yield: 6 servings
-cheese
6    Single amaretto
2    Egg
1/2 ts Salt
1/4 ts Freshly ground white pepper
1/4 ts Fresh grated nutmeg
2 tb Olive oil
3/4 c  Clarified unsalted butter
2 c  All purpose flour
1 c  Semolina flour
1/2 ts Salt
4    Room temperature egg
2 tb Olive oil
2 tb Warm water
10 oz Solid pack pumpkin
1/2 c  Freshly grated Parmesan
For pasta: Combine flours and 1/2 teaspoon salt in processor. Add 4 eggs, 2
tablespoons olive oil and water and blend until dough comes together, about
20 seconds. Turn dough out onto lightly floured surface and knead until
smooth, about 3 minutes. Wrap in plastic. Let stand 15 minutes.

For filling: Blend next 7 ingredients in processor. Set mixture aside.

To assemble: Cut dough into 6 pieces. Flatten 1 piece of dough (keep
remainder covered to prevent drying), then fold into thirds. Turn pasta
machine to widest setting and run dough through. Repeat until dough is
smooth and velvety, folding before each run and dusting with flour if
sticky. Adjust pasta machine to next narrower setting. Run dough through
without folding. Repeat, narrowing rollers after each run until pasta is
about 1/16 inch thick, dusting with flour if sticky. Repeat with another
piece of dough. Lay 1 dough sheet on lightly floured surface. Mound level
teaspoons of filling at 2-inch intervals, leaving 1/2-inch border along
edges. Brush dough between filling and along edges with water. Top with
second sheet, pressing around filling to seal. Trim around filling using
pastry cutter to create ravioli. Arrange ravioli on lightly floured waxed
paper. Repeat with remaining dough. Let ravioli dry until leathery around
edges. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead and refrigerated.)

Stir 2 tablespoons olive oil into large pot of boiling salted water. Add
ravioli (in batches if necessary) and cook until just tender but firm to
bite, about 8 minutes. Drain well. Transfer to bowl. Add butter and toss
well. Divide among 8 plates. Sprinkle each with freshly grated Parmesan
cheese if desired. Top with freshly ground pepper.

