Title: The Ultimate Chocolate Mousse Cake
Categories: Chocolate, Cakes/choc.
Yield: 16 servings
Chocolate ganache glaze
2/3 c  Heavy cream
6 oz Semi-sweet chocolate; finel
-y chopped
Approx. Cook Time:   :15 CHOCOLATE
1 lb Bittersweet chocolate; coar
-sely chopped
1/2 lb Butter; unsalted
6    Eggs; lightly beaten
Fat grams    per serving:
MOUSSE CAKE: 1. Preheat the oven to 425F. Wrap the outside of an 8-inch
springform  pan in a double layer of aluminum foil to prevent seepage.
Butter the pan and line the bottom with a round of parchment or waxed
paper.  Butter the paper. 2. Combine the chocolate and butter in a large
metal bowl over a pan of hot - not simmering - water (the bottom of the
bowl should not touch the water). Let stand, stirring occasionally, until
the chocolate is smooth and melted. Or melt in a glass bowl in a microwave
oven on high (100%), stopping and stirring every 15 seconds; remove the
chocolate when there are still a few lumps and stir until completely
smooth. 3. Put the eggs in a large mixer bowl set over simmering water and
stir constantly until warm to the touch, about 3 minutes; remove from the
heat.  With an electric mixer, beat the eggs until they triple in volume
and form soft peaks when the beater is lifted, 5 to 8 minutes. (To ensure
maximum volume, if using a hand-held mixer, continue to beat the eggs over
simmering water until they are hot to the touch, about 5 minutes, then
remove from the heat and beat until cool.) 4. Fold half the eggs into the
melted chocolate until partially incorporated. Add the remaining eggs and
fold until they are just blended and no streaks remain. 5. Pour at once
into the prepared springform pan and smooth the surface with a spatula.
Place in a larger roasting pan and add enough hot water to the pan to reach
about two-thirds of the way up the springform. 6. Bake for 5 minutes. Cover
the top of the springform loosely with lightly buttered aluminum foil and
bake for 10 minutes longer. Remove the cake from the oven and let cool on a
rack for 45 minutes; then cover and refrigerate until chilled and very
firm, about 3 hours. 7. To unmold, run a small spatula or a blunt knife
around the edge and remove the side of the springform. Carefully invert the
cake into a plate that has been covered with plastic wrap and remove the
bottom of the springform; peel off the parchment. Reinvert the cake onto a
cardboard round or a cake plate.  Cover and refrigerate for 6 hours or
overnight, until thoroughly chilled, before serving. 8. If you want to
cover the cake with a chocolate ganache glaze, set it on a rack or tuck
strips of waxed paper around the bottom of the cake. Pour the tepid glaze
onto the center of the cake, letting it cascade over the sides. Run a long
metal spatula lightly across the top so that the glaze will not be too
thick.  If necessary, use the spatula to patch any pare spots. Work quickly
before the glaze sets. Prick any air bubbles with a needle or pin.
Carefully remove any strips of waxed paper. Let the glaze stand undisturbed
until set, 2 to 3 hours at room temperature, or 30 minutes in the
refrigerator. CHOCOLATE GANACHE GLAZE: 1. In a small heavy saucepan, scald
the cream.  Remove from the heat and immediately add the chopped chocolate.
Cover and let stand for 5 minutes; then stir gently until the chocolate is
fully melted and smooth. Let cool until tepid. 2. Stir the glaze to test
it.  It is ready to use when a small amount mounds just a tiny bit when
dropped from the spoon before disappearing into the mixture. If the glaze
is too thick and the mound remainds on the surface, add warm water (or
liqueur) by the teaspoonful, testing until the consistency is correct. If
for some reason the glaze remains too thin, stir in more finely grated
chocolate, heat until melted and then let cool again. Variations

MINI-MOUSSE CAKE: This cake is perfect for serving 6 to 8. Make the
Ultimate chocolate Mousse Cake, using 1/2 pound chocolate, 4 ounces of
butter and 3 lightly beaten eggs. Bake in a 6-inch springform pan;
temperature and baking remain the same. MOCHA FUDGE MOUSSE CAKE: Make the
Ultimate Chocolate Mousse cake, prefereably using extra-bittersweet
chocolate.  In step 2, add 2 tablespoons instant expresso powder to the
melted chocolate and butter.  In step 5, pour halfe the chocolate mousse
batter into the prepared springform pan and drizzle with have the Hot fudge
(see recipe).  Add the remaining batter and drizzle on the remaining fudge.
PRALINE CHOCOLATE MOUSSE CAKE: Make the Ultimate Chocolate Mousse Cake,
preferably using extra-bittersweet chocolate. In Step 2, add 1/2 cup
praline paste (see note) to the melted chocolate and butter. Garnish, if
desired with toasted hazelnuts. (Toasted pecans are also nice). NOTE:
Praline paste can be ordered from Maison Glass, 52 E. 58th St., New York,
NY 10022; 212 755-3316. CHOCOLATE FRUIT MOUSSE CAKE: Make the Ultimate
Chocolate Mousse Cake, preferably using extra-bittersweet chocolate. In
Step 2, add 3/4 cup raspberry jelly or melted and strained apricot jam to
the melted chocolate and butter.
Garnish the cake with a sparkling glaze of 1/2 cup melted raspberry jelly
or strained appricot jam mixed with 1 Tablespoon framboise (raspberry
eau-de-vie).  Spoon this glaze over the top of the cake and immediately
spread into a thin, even layer with a long, narrow spatula. BRANDIED CHERRY
CHOCOLATE MOUSSE CAKE: Make the Brandied Cherrys (see recipe) at least a
day ahead.  Make the Ultimate Chocolate Mousse Cake (using semi-sweet
chocolate). After Step 4, fold in 1 cup halved, well-drained brandied
cherrys.

