Title: BANANA CAKE WITH PENUCHE FROSTING
Categories: Cakes, Desserts
Yield: 16 Servings
2 1/4 c  Cake Flour; Sifted
1 1/4 ts Baking Powder
1 1/4 ts Baking Soda
1 ts Salt
2 ts Vinegar
Milk
2/3 c  Vegetable Shortening
1 2/3 c  Sugar
3 lg Eggs
1 1/4 c  Ripe Bananas; Mashed 3 to 4
1 c  Walnuts; Chopped
MMMMM----------------------PENUCHE FROSTING---------------------------
1/2 c  Butter Or Regular Margarine
1 c  Brown Sugar; Packed
1/4 c  Milk
2 c  Confectioners' Sugar; Sifted
Sift the cake flour, baking powder, baking soda, and salt, blending
well and set aside.  Place the vinegar in a measuring cup. Add enough
milk to make 2/3 cup and set aside. Cream the shortening and sugar
together, in a large mixing bowl, until light and fluffy, using an
electric mixer set on medium speed. Add the eggs, one at a time,
beating well after each addition.  Add the dry ingredients
alternately with the milk mixture and bananas to the cream mixture,
blending well after each addition, using low speed on the mixer. Stir
in the walnuts and pour the batter into a greased 13 X 9 X 2-inch
baking pan. Bake in a preheated 350 Degree F. oven for about 45
minutes or until a cake tester or wooden pick inserted in the center
comes out clean. Cool, in the pan, on a wire rack until cold to the
touch, then frost.

PENUCHE FROSTING:

Heat the butter in a 2-quart saucepan, over medium heat, until
bubbling but not browned.  Stir in the brown sugar. Cook, stirring
constantly, until the mixture comes to a boil.  Reduce the heat to
low and cook, stirring constantly, another 2 minutes.  Stir in the
milk. Increase the heat to medium and cook until the mixture returns
to a boil. Remove from the heat and cool to lukewarm.  When the
mixture is luke warm, stir in the Confectioners' sugar and beat with
a wooden spoon until well blended and thick enough to spread. If
necessary, place the pan in a bowl of ice water and beat with a
wooden spoon until the frosting reaches a spreading consistency.  If
the frosting becomes too stiff, warm over low heat.

