Title: BANANA/PINEAPPLE TROPICAL SORBET
Categories: Low-fat, Desserts
Yield: 4 Servings
1    Pineapple
2    Chopped bananas
3 tb Sugar
1 c  Plain nonfat yogurt
1 tb Honey
Because this sorbet is frozen in the pineapple shell, you must cut
out the flesh according to the following special method. First, slice
off the top, just at the point where the edges begin to straighten.
Now stand the pineapple up on its bottom end. Insert a long,
thin-bladed knife into the exposed flesh, next to the pineapple's
outer skin. Push the knife in tin the entire length of the pineapple,
stopping just above the bottom - CAREFUL - you don't want to
penetrate through the bottom. Cut in a circle around the edge just
inside the skin. You've now created a long cylinder of pineapple
flesh that's connected to the shell only at the bottom.

To separate the bottom of this fruit cylinder, insert the knife into
the side of the pineapple, about 1 inch from the bottom. Without
enlarging the hole that is the knife's entry point into the fruit,
fan the blade back and forth, cutting through the inside fruit
cylinder in a large "V". Repeat this procedure on the opposite side.
Now the long, central p pineapple cylinder is free.

Invert the pineapple over a bowl to catch the juice. Plunge a fork
into the pineapple cylinder's top end and, with firm determination,
pull it out into the bowl. Remove the tough central core of the fruit
by cutting the cylinder into quarters and then trimming off the
center strip of eac each piece. Remove any "eyes".

Roughly chop the remaining pineapple flesh and put it into the bowl
with the reserved juice. The rest is easier!!

Puree pineapple flesh and juice with bananas in food processor,
gradually adding the sugar, yogurt and honey. Transfer to ice cream
maker and process according to directions. Scoop sorbet into hollowed
out pineapple shell, cover with plastic wrap and freeze for at least
an hour.

To serve: Remove from freezer just before serving. Slice the
pineapple from top to bottom into 6 wedges.

Of course, one needn't go to all that trouble...but it's a lovely way
to present the sorbet. If you don't want to do it, then skip all the
hard part, and just chop up the pineapple flesh and go from there and
serve directly out of the ice cream maker!! :)

This will also get posted in the low fat topic, as it only has 1 gm
of fat per serving.....

Food & Wine RT [*] Category 4, Topic 6 Message 131 Sun Jan 10, 1993
at 23:50 EST
WYF.4.LYF [Choc. Queen]

MM by QBTOMM and Sylvia Steiger, GEnie THE.STEIGERS, CI$ 71511,2253,
GT Cookbook echo moderator at net/node 004/005

