Title: BANH PHO BO
Categories: Soups, Beef, Viet
Yield: 6 Servings
3 lg Onion
1 tb Peanut oil
5 lb Beef & chicken bones, meaty;
-combination
4 sl Ginger, fresh; julienned
2    Carrot; julienned
1 sm Cinnamon stick
1    Star anise
2    Cloves, whole
1 ts Peppercorn, black; whole
2    Garlic clove; smashed
1/2 lb Fresh bean sprouts
1/2 lb Beef sirloin; sliced very
-thin across grain, bitesize
1    Scallion; finely sliced
1/4 c  Cilantro; chopped
4    Chiles serranos; sliced
-(wimps only, devein them)
2    Lime; cut into wedges
8 oz Rice sticks, soaked in hot
;water for 30 minutes
;drained
3 tb Nuoc mam
Fresh black pepper to taste
Slice two of the onions into quarter-inch slices. Heat a tablespoon
of oil in a frying pan. Add the sliced onion, and cook, stirring,
until the outside has browned. Remove and drain. Slice the remaining
onion into paper-thin slices and set aside.

Rinse the bones and place in a stockpot. Cover with cold water. Bring
slowly to a boil. Reduce heat and simmer, uncovered. For a clear
broth skim off foam. After 10 to 15 minutes, add browned onion and
ginger, carrots, cinnamon, cardamom, star anise, cloves, garlic and
peppercorns. Bring to a boil. Simmer the stock, partially covered for
six to 12 hours, skimming regularly. If necessary add more water to
keep the bones covered. Strain the stock, skim off, and discard any
fat.

At serving time, arrange the sliced beef on a platter. Garnish with
reserved white and green onion. On another platter, arrange the bean
sprouts, coriander, chiles and limes. Meanwhile, plunge the rice
sticks in boiling water to heat. Drain. Place equal portions in each
soup bowl. Cover to keep warm. Heat beef stock to boiling. Season
with fish sauce and pepper. Pour into a soup tureen or chafing dish.
At the table, place the soup on a portable warmer to keep hot. Offer
each guest a bowl of warm rice noodles. Each diner adds some beef and
onion to a bowl. Ladle the hot stock over the meat, stirring to cook
the meat. Add the bean sprouts, coriander, chiles, and lime to taste.
Enjoy with chopsticks and a soup spoon.

Optional: pass fresh basil leaves, coriander, additional chilies, fish
sauce and ground peanuts at the table.

From: kpatrucco@aol.com (KPatrucco)

