Title: BASIC RISOTTO & SEVERAL VARIATIONS
Categories: Cooking, Live
1 c  Arborio rice
Yield: 1 Servings
2 TB pure olive oil
1 lg onion -- peeled and finely
di
:
1/2 c  dry white wine
2 1/2 c  chicken stock
2 TB unsalted butter
1/4 c  freshly grated Parmesan
cheese
:
2 TB heavy cream

Pick through the rice to remove any stones or foreign matter, but do
not wash it before cooking.

Using a large skillet with a heavy bottom, heat the olive oil over
low eat and saute or "sweat" the onions until translucent, being
careful not to allow them to color or brown at all.

Add the Arborio rice, stir to coat with the olive oil, and saute with
the onions to toast each grain of rice, about 7 minutes. This
toasting process adds the chewy, al dente quality that attracts so
many people to risotto.

Once the rice is lightly toasted, add the white wine slowly, stirring
with a wooden spoon. (A wooden spoon is always preferable when making
risotto, as a metal spoon tends to cut or injure the grains of rice.
Constant stirring should be avoided for the same reason.)

Preheat the chicken stock just to the boiling point, then have it
ready at stoveside. After the rice has absorbed the white wine and
the skillet is nearly dry, add 1 cup stock, stirring occasionally,
and cook over very low heat until the stock is absorbed. Continue
adding the stock, 1 cup at a time, until all the stock has been
absorbed.

(Adding the liquid in stages, instead of all at once, allows the
grains of rice to expand more fully, adding to the risotto's creamy
texture.) Once the rice has been added to the pan, the entire cooking
process will take about 17 to 20 minutes.

After all of the liquid has been added and the rice is chewy yet fully
cooked, with a creamy texture, add the butter, Parmesan, and heavy
cream. Stir to combine all the ingredients and serve immediately.
Yield: 4 servings

Variations:

Sauteed shrimp

Mixed seafood (such as salmon, shrimp, and scallops) sauteed in live
oil and herbs

Diced fresh vegetables, steamed or sauteed in olive oil (asparagus and
carrots make a wonderful combination)

Fresh green peas in season

Sauteed mushrooms and herbs

Roasted Garlic (recipe follows)

: COOKING LIVE SHOW #CL8724
Recipe By

From: "Jon And Angele Freeman" <jfreemadate: Wed, 9 Oct 1996 11:34:23
~0500

