Title: SALAD OF GOAT CHEESE FRITTERS WITH
Categories:
Yield: 4 Servings
4 sm Round zucchini
4    Baby artichokes
4 lg Cherry tomatoes
4    Zucchini flowers
For the tomato coulis:
1/2 c  Extra virgin olive oil
2 tb White onion
1 ts Garlic cloves
1 c  Vine-ripened tomatoes
Salt to taste
Pepper to taste
1 tb Sherry vinegar
For the fritters:
1    Log farm fresh goat cheese
(8 ounces)
4 tb Mascarpone cheese
1 tb Italian parsley
1 tb Chives
Salt to taste
White pepper to taste
1 c  Panko bread crumbs
For the salad:
4 c  Mesclun greens
1 tb Sherry vinegar
1 tb Extra virgin olive oil
Salt to taste
Pepper to taste
Preparation of the vegetables:

Blanch zucchini and artichoke. Remove middle and stuff with
appropriate filling. Peel and hollow tomato and fill zucchini flower.
Steam zucchini flower 30 seconds. Chill and reserve.

Preparation of the fillings:

Zucchini: Diced zucchini with scallions and thyme, parmigiano
reggiano. Tomato: Chopped confit tomato, roasted garlic and fresh
basil. Artichoke: Diced artichoke, sage, and black olive relish.

Zucchini Flower: Eggplant caviar with parsley.

Preparation of the tomato coulis:

In a heavy sauce pan, heat 1 tablespoon of extra virgin olive oil.
Add the white onion and garlic cloves. and sweat over medium heat for
five minutes. Add chopped tomato and simmer for 20 minutes. Remove
from heat, purJe, and add seasonings, vinegar, and remaining olive
oil. Strain and serve chilled. Preparation of the fritters:

Mix the goat cheese and mascarpone with the herbs and seasonings.
Roll into a cylinder and refrigerate. Cut into 1 1/2-inch tubes and
bread lightly with panko bread crumbs. Fry in extra virgin olive oil.
Drain and reserve warm.

To finish the dish:

Place warm goat cheese fritters on the chilled greens. Combine the
sherry vinegar, oil, and salt and pepper. Place stuffed chilled
vegetables around and drizzle with both sauces. Serve chilled.

Yield: 4 servings

: CHEF DU JOUR SHOW #DJ9333
Recipe By
For the vegetables:

From: Minnie@juno.Com (Louise M Mccartndate: Wed, 23 Oct 1996
14:32:55 Pst

