Title: SALAD BAR IDEAS AT HOME (DISNEY)
Categories: Salad
Yield: 1 Servings
1/2 c  Lettuce
2 tb Italian salad dressing
Croutons
Melon -- wedges
1 oz Cooked chicken -- cubed
Garden Salad Top lettuce with onion slices, diced carrots, and green
peppers. Drizzle with any dressing you like.

Greek Salad Tear lettuce onto a platter and top with cucumber slices,
tomato wedges, red onion slices, olives, crumbled feta, and
anchovies, if desired. Drizzle with olive oil and red wine vinegar.

Chef's Salad Cut ham, Swiss cheese, and turkey into cubes and arrange
on a platter of lettuce with tomatoes, cucumbers, and hard boiled
eggs. Top with creamy Italian dressing.

Quick and Easy Coleslaw Mix shredded cabbage and carrots with
mayonnaise, a splash of vinegar, and a pinch of sugar.

Rice Salad Mix cooked white rice with diced carrots, onion, and green
pepper and toss with Italian dressing.

Shrimp and Avocado Salad Tear some butternut lettuce onto a salad
plate and top with slices of avocado and cooked, peeled shrimp.
Drizzle with olive oil and finish with a spritz of lemon juice.

Chicken Caesar Salad Toss lettuce with bottled Caesar salad dressing
and a handful of Parmesan cheese. Arrange on salad plates with sliced
grilled chicken and croutons.

Smiling Salad Arrange a bed of lettuce on a plate with two
hard-boiled egg eyes, a carrot slice mouth, and a radish nose.

Black Bean Salad Toss canned, drained black beans with diced red
pepper, corn, and diced onion. Tosss with 2 parts vinegar and 1 part
oil and fresh chopped cilantro.

Mushroom, and Spinach and Red Onion Toss fresh spinach with sliced
mushrooms, red onion, croutons, and Honey Poppy Seed Dressing (see
recipe).

Salade Nicoise On a bed of lettuce, arrange chunks of white tuna,
tomato wedges, hard boiled egg slices, olives, steamed green beans,
and anchovies. Top with Dijon Vinaigrette dressing (see recipe).

Mesclun Salad Deluxe Buy mesclun salad mix (a mix of baby greens) in
the produce section. Top with radishes, onion, pepper, grated carrots
and cherry tomatoes.

: Deanna Cook, 1996. Disney's Family Cookbook
Recipe By

