Title: SALMON CORNCAKES
Categories: Seafood, Side dish, Corncakes
Yield: 8 Servings
2 c  Water
1 c  Dry white wine
1    Bay leaf, preferably fresh
4    Whole peppercorns
2    Parsley sprigs
A few celery leaves
2    Salmon steaks, about
-1/2 pound each
1 c  Fresh corn kernels, cooked
1/2 c  Finely chopped shallots
1/2 c  Finely diced red bell pepper
1/2 c  Finely diced celery
1/4 c  Chopped fresh cilantro
-leaves
1/2 c  Nonfat plain yogurt, drained
-for 15 minutes in a fine
-strainer
1/2 c  "light" mayonnaise
1/2 ts Dijon-style mustard
ds Tabasco sauce
Salt to taste
Freshly ground black pepper,
-to taste
1    Egg
-PLUS
1    Egg white, lightly beaten
1 1/2 c  Cracker crumbs
4 tb Olive oil
When poaching salmon, whether to serve on its own or to use as an
ingredient, season your liquid well with white wine, peppercorns,
celery leaves, fresh parsley and a bay leaf for greatest flavor.

1. Combine water, wine, bay leaf, peppercorns, parsley and celery
leaves in a shallow 8x8" pan. Slowly bring to a boil, reduced to a
simmer and add salmon steaks. Simmer until salmon is just cooked
through - 7-10 minutes, depending on thickness. Remove with a slotted
spatula, drain and cool slightly. Flake salmon into a bowl (do not
break it up too much); discard skin and bones.

2. To the salmon add corn, shallots, red pepper, celery and cilantro.
Fold together gently with a rubber spatula.

3. Combine yogurt, mayonnaise, mustard and Tabasco in a separate
bowl. Fold into salmon mixture. Season with salt and pepper. Gently
fold the egg, egg whites and 1/4 cup of the cracker crumbs into the
salmon mixture.

4. form into 8 large or 12 medium-sized patties. Lay some cracker
crumbs on a plate and coat the patties on both sides, using more
crumbs as needed. Refrigerate, covered, for up to 1 hour.

5. Heat 2 tablespoons olive oil in a non-stick skillet over medium
heat. Cook salmon corncakes a few at a time until golden, about 3
minutes per side. Add more oil to skillet as needed. Serve
immediately with Festival Corn Salsa alongside.

Serve 8 as an entree or 12 as an appetizer.

Per serving (based on 8 cakes) without the salsa: 366 calories, 26
grams fat, 50 milligrams cholesterol.

