Title: SALMON COULIBIAC
Categories: Seafood, Russian
Yield: 10 Servings
2    (15xl2-inch) sheets puff
-pastry
Rice Filling, chilled
-(recipe follows)
Mushroom-Spinach Filling,
-chilled (recipe follows)
1 1/2 lb Poached salmon, boned and
-flaked, chilled
1    Egg
2 ts Half and half
2    (lOx4-inch) sheets puff
-pastry
Salmon coulibiac is a traditional Yule holiday dish in Russia because
it looks like a present: red (salmon) and green (spinach), all
gift-wrapped in puff pastry. This dish would also be ideal on a New
Year's Eve or Twelfth Night buffet. Here's a salmon coulibiac from
Just Off Melrose caterers in Hollywood.

Cucumber-Dill Sauce (recipe follows)

Place 2 (15xl2-inch) puff pastry sheets side by side on floured
board. For each puff pastry, spoon 1/4 Rice Filling evenly over
center of each pastry. Add Mushroom Spinach Filling evenly on top of
rice mixture. Distribute flaked salmon evenly over mushroom mixture.
Top each with remaining Rice Filling.

Beat egg with half and half in small bowl to make egg wash. Brush
edges of pastry with egg wash. Fold pastry lengthwise, overlapping
edges. Tuck ends to seal. Turn over, seam-side down, onto greased
baking sheet. Make cutouts from remaining (lOx4-inch) puff pastry
sheets, using pastry cutters. Place on top and sides of pastry roll.
Make vent in center of roll and brush entire surface and cutouts with
egg mixture. Bake at 350 degrees 45 minutes, or until golden brown.
Remove and allow to cool 10 minutes before slicing. Serve hot or at
room temperature with Cucumber Dill Sauce. Makes about 10 servings.

Rice Filling

2 tbs butter 1/2 cup chopped shallots 2 cloves garlic, minced 3 cups
cooked rice 1 bunch fresh dill, chopped

Melt butter in skillet over medium heat. Add shallots and garlic.
Saute until shallots are tender. Add rice and dill and mix well.

Mushroom-Spinach Filling

1/4 cup butter 1 onion, chopped 1/2 pound mushrooms, sliced 1/4-inch
thick 1 (IO-ounce) package frozen chopped spinach, thawed and
squeezed dry Salt, pepper

Melt butter in small skillet. Add onion and saute until tender, about
1 minute. Add mushrooms and spinach and cook 3 minutes. Season to
taste with salt and pepper.

Cucumber-Dill Sauce

2 tbs butter 1/4 cup minced shallots 1 1/2 tsp flour 1 cup half and
half 1 cup sour cream 1/2 cup chopped fresh dill Salt, pepper 1/4 cup
grated peeled cucumber

Melt butter in small skillet over medium heat. Add shallots and saute
until translucent. Stir in flour and cook 1 minute. Stir in half and
half and simmer until slightly thickened. Add sour cream and dill.
Season to taste with salt and pepper. Heat through, but do not boil.
Add cucumber just before serving. Makes 2 1/2 cups.

