Title: SALTINES & FAMILY
Categories: Breads
Yield: 11 Servings
3 tb Shortening
2 tb Butter
About 3 1/2 c unbleached
-flour
1 ts Baking powder
3/4 ts Salt
1/4 ts Sugar
1    Egg white, beaten to a loose
-froth
1 c  Whole milk
Makes about 11 dozen 2" saltines From "Make Your Own Groceries" by
Daphne Metaxas Hartwig.

Use this dough to make a whole range of crackers - saltines; oyster
crackers; and big, round sea toast crackers.

kosher, sea, or table salt

Melt the shortening and butter together; let cool. Sift 1 3/4 c of the
flour into a lg mixing bowl along with the baking powder, salt, and
sugar; make a well in the center and pour in the shortening and
butter; stir to combine, then stir in the egg white.  Add the milk
and beat vigorously to smooth out some of the lumps, then gradually
sift in enough flour to make a dough that will be stiff enough to
roll out. Form the dough into a ball; knead it for 10 min on a
floured surface until it is smooth and satiny. Divide the dough into
2 equal balls, wrap each in wax paper and let them rest at room
temperature for 20 - 30 min.

On a floured surface, roll the first dough ball out as thinly as you
possibly can.  Cut the dough into 2" squares using a pizza cutter, a
ravioli wheel, or a very sharp, greased knife; save the scraps. Place
the dough squares just slightly apart from each other on ungreased
cookie sheet.  Sprinkle the squares with salt to taste and pat them
to embed the salt.  Prick each square several times with a fork. Bake
in a preheated 375 F oven for 15 to 20 min until just slightly
browned. Repeat for remaining dough ball and scraps.

SEA TOAST

After the dough has rested, pinch off pieces about 1 1/2 to 2" round.
On a floured surface, roll each piece into the thinnest free-form
circle possible.  Place the circles on an ungreased cookie sheet;
prick with a fork and bake at 375 F for about 15 min.  Very crispy
and perfect for cheese or soups.  Makes about 2 dozen.

OYSTER CRACKERS

One rested dough ball at a time, roll the dough out as thinly as
possible; transfer to a cookie sheet.  Cut the dough into diamond
shaped, 1" crackers with a ravioli wheel or a pizza cutter; there is
no need to separate the crackers as the dough's elasticity will do
the job. Salt, embedded and gently prick the diamonds as previously
described. Bake as directed for about 10 min.

