Title: SAMGYETANG (BABY CHICKEN & GINSENG SOUP)
Categories: Soups, Korean
Yield: 2 Servings
1/2 c  Glutinous rice; well rinsed
2    Pieces fresh ginger; each
-2 inches long
1    Scallion; sliced thin
6    Jujubes; korean dates
2    Garlic clove; halve lengthws
1 sm Chicken OR cornish game hen
-(about 1 pound)
2 c  Water
1 ts Sesame seeds, toasted
1 ts Korean sesame oil
1/8 ts Pepper
"This Samgyetang is a celebrated soup from the island of Cheju, and
deservedly so since the prestigious, almost mystical, ginseng root is
cooked and eaten like a vegetable with the chicken. The Samgyetang is
cooked in a tukbaege and brought still bubbling to the table. It is
considered to be a summer dish in restaurants and homes. Koreans will
break up the chicken and rice in the pot so that it becomes a gruel.
I prefer that each person helps himself out of the pot, taking
something of all the ingredients and spooning the rich, thick broth
over all. It seems to me more aesthetic without altering the taste.
The jujubes prove a touch of contrasting sweetness to the chicken,
rice and ginseng. Ginseng, or "insam" as it is also called in Korea,
tastes to me like a slightly bitter parsnip. Its properties are
alleged to be strengthening and bring about rejuvenation."

1. Mix the rice, ginseng root, scallion, 3 of the jujubes and 1 garlic
clove together and stuff the chicken. Sew up the opening.

2. Put the chicken in the "tukbaege" or in a heavy pot with a cover
that is just a bit larger than the chicken. Add the 2 cups water, the
other 3 jujubes, the other garlic clove, the sesame seeds and sesame
oil and the pepper. Bring to a boil, cover the pot and reduce heat to
low. Simmer over low heat for 1 hour.

The soup will develop a thick, cloudy consistency and the chicken will
soften enough to melt away from the bones.

Serve hot in the "tukbaege" if you have one, or transfer the chicken
and broth to a large serving bowl.

Serves 2 with a variety of side dishes.

Source: "The Korean Kitchen" by Copeland Marks

