Title: SAMOOSA (SMALL SAVORY PASTRIES)
Categories: Appetizers, Indian
Yield: 32 Servings
PASTRY
1 1/2 c  All-purpose flour
3/4 ts Salt
1 tb Oil or ghee (clarified
Butter)
1/2 c  Warm water
FILLING
1 tb Oil or ghee
1    Clove garlic -- finely
Chopped
1 ts Fresh ginger root -- finely
Chopped
2 md Onions -- finely chopped
2 ts Curry powder
1/2 ts Salt
1 tb Vinegar or lemon juice
8 oz Steak or lamb -- minced
1/2 c  Hot water
1 ts Garam masala
2 tb Fresh mint or coriander
Leaves -- chopped
Oil for frying
Pastry:  Sift flour and salt into a bowl, add oil and warm water and
mix thoroughly, until ingredients are combined. (Add a little more
water if necessary to combine ingredients.) Knead for about 10
minutes or until dough is elastic.  Cover with plastic wrap and set
aside while preparing filling. Filling: Heat oil in a saucepan and
fry garlic, ginger and half the onion until onion is soft.  Add curry
powder, salt and vinegar, mix well.  Add minced steak and fry over a
high heat, stirring constantly until meat changes color.  Turn heat
down and add hot water. Cover pan and cook until meat is tender and
all the liquid has been absorbed. Towards end of cooking, stir
frequently to prevent meat from sticking to base of pan. Sprinkle
with garam masala and chopped mint or coriander, remove from heat and
allow to cool. Mix in reserved chopped onion. Take small pieces of
dough, shape into balls and on a lightly floured board roll each one
thinly to a circle, the size of a saucer. Cut each circle in half.
fPut a teaspoon of filling on one side of each half circle and brush
edges with water. Fold dough over and press edges together firmly.
You will now have triangular shaped samoosas. When they are all made,
heat oil in a deep pan and deep fry a few at a time until golden
brown on both sides. Drain on absorbent paper and serve hot. NOTE:
Both samoosa and singara can be made using spring roll wrappers. Cut
into 2 1/2 inch strips the length of the pastry. Put a teaspoon of
filling at one end and fold the pastry over diagonally, then fold
again and again, still keeping a triangular shape. Moisten end of
strip with water or beaten egg and press lightly.

: The Complete Asian Cookbook
Recipe By

