Title: SAN FELIPE-STYLE FISH TACOS IN BEER BATTER
Categories: Fish, Mexican, Sauces
Yield: 18 Servings
2 lb Firm-fleshed fish fillets
1/2 c  Unbleached flour
2    Eggs -- separated
1/2 ts Garlic salt
1 ts Oregano
1/2 ts Black pepper
1/4 ts Cayenne pepper
3/4 c  Beer -- room temperature
3/4 c  Unbleached flour
2 c  Canola oil
18    Fresh corn tortillas
SALSA BLANCA:
1/2 c  Mayonnaise
1/2 c  Plain yogurt -- or sour
Cream
1/2 ts Salt
1 3/4 c  Shredded cabbage -- Napa
ROSARITO BEACH SALSA:
1/2 c  Oil
10    Chiles de arbol
2    Tomatoes
1/2 c  Tomato sauce -- canned
1/2 ts Salt
Cut fish into strips about 2 inches wide and 3 inches long. Roll in
the 1/2 cup flour, dust off excess. Set aside while mixing batter.
Beat together egg yolks, seasonings, beer and the 3/4 cup flour until
well blended. Whisk egg whites until they resemble soft whipped
cream, then fold gently into batter. Set aside. This batter holds up
quite well for up to 1 hour. Heat oil in flat-bottomed wok or cast
iron skillet. Dip floured fish pieces in the beer batter and
carefully slip into hot oil. Fry unto fish turns a deep gold, turning
so it browns evenly. Remove to crumpled paper towels to drain. Warm
corn tortillas on a griddle placed next to wok or skillet. (Or in
oven.) For the salsa blanca: Blend mayonnaise, yogurt and salt. Makes
1 cup. For the Rosarito salsa: Heat oil in a small cast iron pan and
fry the chilies in in it until they are a deep burnished red. This
step gives the salsa an incomparable smoky flavor. Remove to paper
towels and blot off oil. While the chilies are cooling, broil the
tomatoes about 5 minutes, turning once. Remove cores and most of the
skin. Stem chilies and break pods into pieces. Place tomatoes, tomato
sauce, salt and chilies in the bowl of a food processor: process
until chilies are broken up into small, dark flecks. Use for tacos
and over eggs. Makes 1cup. Spread a scant tablespoon of Salsa Blanca
over warm tortilla, add a heaping tablespoon of shredded cabbage and
press into sauce. Add 2 or 3 chunks of fried fish and drizzle
withRosarito Beach Salsa. Eat immediately. Makes 18 tacos.

: Gust Vreneos, Cathedral City, CA
Recipe By

From: 	owner-Mm-Recipes@idiscover.Net O

