Title: SAUSAGE & PORK JAMBALAYA
Categories: Pork, Soups
Yield: 4 Servings
2 lb Pork Butt, cubed
3 lb Sausage, sliced
1 cn Franco-American Brown Gravy
2    Onions diced
1    Bunch Shallots diced
5 c  Rice
Water
MMMMM-------------------------SEASONINGS------------------------------
Salt
Cayenne pepper
Tiger sauce
Hot sauce
Tony's Chachere's Seasoning
Kitchen Bouquet
Contributed to the echo by: Stephen Brown This recipe for Jambalaya
comes from my father-in-law, who won the Oak Alley Jambalaya cooking
contest with it twice. Even this transplanted Yankee has had good
luck with it. Sausage & Pork Jambalaya

Brown the pork in a large pot with a small amount of water on the
bottom to prevent sticking. Cover, stir occasionally. Add Onions, and
continue to saute. When onions are transparent, add sausage, and
continue to saute. When the meats are cooked, add the brown gravy and
cook a few more minutes. Add the water -- You need to add an *equal*
amount of water as you are using rice. 5 Cups, in this case. (Usually
the rice is measured by the pound, in which case you would pour into
a bowl and add that amount of water). Allow the water to heat, then
turn off the heat and cover. Allow the grease to rise to the top.
Skim off the grease with a large spoon. Conserve the grease. After
skimming the grease, add an amount of water equal to the amount of
grease to replace the liquid lost. Bring to almost boiling, and add
your seasonings. You can use whatever seasonings you want, but the
key is that it should be saltier and hotter now than you want the
finished product. Heat the spices a few minutes, and taste. Add more
spices until you are happy with the outcome. At this point you can
add the shallots. (We save the greens until now, since they float,
and they would be in the way of tasting the spices). One optional
step is to add a small amount of Kitchen Bouquet to give the
Jambalaya a rich brown color. Bring to a rolling boil. Add the rice
all at once and stir. Continue with high heat and stirring often
until the mixture becomes milky with the rice. Reduce the heat
slightly, and cover. Now you only want to open and stir the rice
occasionally, as the rice is steaming. When removing the cover, do
not allow the water to drip back into the pot. Wipe the lid before
returning the lid to the pot. Stir quickly, but be sure to scrape the
bottom to prevent sticking. This is really the tricky part... As the
liquid drys up, you need to reduce the heat even further and allow
the rice to finish steaming. Stir every few minutes, scraping bottom.
The Jambalaya is finished when the rice is tender and "done."

This recipe can be increased or reduced proportionally. The first
time I made it I used 2 pounds of rice. The second time used 35
pounds!

