Title: SAVORY CHICKEN POT PIES
Categories: Pies, American
Yield: 4 Servings
2    Chicken breast halves
6    Chicken thighs
Salt
Pepper
2 tb Butter
2 tb Oil
1 cn Chicken broth (49.5 oz)
1 sm Onion, cut into quarters
1    Celery stalk, cut into
-chunks
1 sm Carrot, peeled, cut into
-chunks
1/4 c  Melted butter
1/4 c  Flour
2 tb Minced tarragon
1 c  Pearl onions, peeled
1 md Potato, peeled, cut into
-1/2" chunks
4 sm Carrots, cut into 1/2"
-diagonal slices (~1 1/2 c)
2 c  Broccoli florets
1 1/2 c  Quartered button mushrooms
Rich pastry crust
2    Egg yolks, beaten
This refined version of an old American classic has a rich, flaky,
meaty-tasting crust, thanks to its mixture of lard and chicken fat.
The latter is a handy byproduct of the precooking of the chicken the
day before. Make sure the chicken fat is good and cold when making
the crust.

Season chicken parts to taste with salt and pepper. Melt 2 tablespoons
butter and oil together in soup pot. Add chicken and brown. Add
chicken broth, quartered onion, celery chunks and carrot chunks and
bring to boil. Reduce heat and simmer until chicken is tender, 20-30
minutes. Let cool. Cover and refrigerate overnight.

Next day, skim cold chicken fat off top of broth. Reserve 1/4 cup fat
for making Rich Pastry Crust. (Keep reserved chicken fat in
refrigerator.)

Heat broth and remove chicken. Skin and bone chicken parts. Discard
skin and bones. Cut meat into 2" chunks and set aside.

Strain broth. Reduce over high heat to 3 cups. Combine 1/4 cup melted
butter and flour in saucepan and gradually stir in broth. Bring to
boil and boil 1 minute. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Stir in
tarragon.

Cook pearl onions, potato, sliced carrots and broccoli separately in
boiling water until tender, 5-10 minutes each. Drain.

Toss together cooked chicken, cooked vegetables and mushrooms. Stir in
chicken-tarragon sauce. Divide into 4 (2 cup) oval casseroles.

Make Rich Pastry Crust. Divide dough in half and gather into 2 small
flattened rounds. Roll first half on lightly floured board to 1/4"
thick Cut dough to fit tops of 2 casseroles, leaving enough dough to
overhang edges by 1". Repeat with second half of dough.

Brush edges of casseroles with egg yolk and place crusts atop
casseroles. Flute edges. Make 4 triangular cuts in center of each
crust and fold back tips of triangles. Brush crust with egg yolk
(save egg whites for another use). Bake at 400'F. until crust is
golden brown and contents hot and bubbly, 20-30 minutes. Makes 4
servings.

Each serving contains about: 1,364 calories; 3,243 milligrams sodium;
343 milligrams cholesterol; 91 grams fat; 78 grams carbohydrates; 57
grams protein;
1.09    grams fiber.

