Title: SCALLION BREAD STICKS
Categories: Crackers
Yield: 16 Servings
1 tb Active dry yeast
2 ts Sugar
1/4 c  Warm water
2 c  All-purpose flour
1/4 c  Olive oil
3/4 c  Water
1/4 c  Minced fresh scallions
Cornmeal to sprinkle on the
Baking sheet
1    Egg lightly beaten with 1
Tablespoon water and a
Pinch of salt for the glaze
Coarse salt for the tops
"These crunchy bread sticks are ideal companions to a hot soup or
35 to 45 minutes Preheat the oven to 350~F.
stew. 350~F.

In a small bowl, combine the yeast with the sugar and the warm water.
Set aside in a warm place until the yeast starts to foam, about 5 to
10 minutes.

Measure the flour into a large bowl or the food processor. Stir in the
yeast mixture, the oil, and the
3/4    cup water. Mix well.

Add the scallions. Knead by hand for about 5 minutes on a lightly
floured surface or by pulsing about 10 to 15 times in the food
processor. Knead until the scallions are thoroughly kneaded in and
the dough is smooth and springy to the touch. Place the dough in a
large, lightly oiled bowl and turn over to coat all sides. Cover with
a damp cloth and set the dough in a warm place until it has doubled
in bulk, about 1-1/2 to 2 hours.

Punch the dough down and turn out onto a lightly floured surface or
pastry cloth. Knead a few strokes. With a knife, cut the dough into
12 to 16 equal pieces. With your hands, roll each piece into a stick
approximately 12 inches long. You will have a more even-looking stick
if you place the dough on a firm surface and roll your hands across
the top, moving from the center outward.

Place the sticks 1 inch apart on a baking sheet that has been lightly
sprinkled with cornmeal. Cover the sheet with a damp towel and let the
sticks rise slightly in a warm place for about 15 to 20 minutes.

Brush the tops of the sticks with the egg mixture and sprinkle with
coarse salt. Bake 35 to 45 minutes, until lightly browned and crisp.
Cool on a rack. Yield: 12 to 16.

VARIATIONS: For cheese bread sticks, knead in 1/2 cup grated Parmesan
cheese with or instead of the scallions.

The Scallions may be omitted from this recipe to produce equally good
plain bread sticks.

