Title: SEAFOOD POT AU FEU
Categories: Fish and se, May 1996 is
Yield: 6 Servings
2 lb Lobster
2 sm Leeks
3 md Carrots -- peeled
1    Stalk celery -- peeled,
Strings remo
1 md Fennel bulb -- trimmed
2    Cloves garlic -- peeled
1 tb Unsalted butter
1 md Onion -- chopped
1 ts Fennel seed -- toasted
8    Sprigs thyme
4    Sprigs tarragon
1 c  Dry white wine
1    Whole bay leaf
4    Whole canned tomatoes --
Broken up
10    Sprigs parsley -- flat leaf
3/4 ts Salt
1/8 ts Freshly ground black pepper
12    Whole sea scallops --
Cleaned
1 lb Halibut -- cubed
1/2 bn Watercress -- leaves only
2 tb Sauternes -- optional
Bring a stockpot of water to a boil over high heat. Add lobsters,
cover and cook for 3 minutes. Drain. Hold lobsters with a towel and
twist off tails and claws. Remove meat from tails and claws;
refrigerate. Reserve lobster shells and bodies. Cut 1 leek into
1/4-inch dice; let stand in a bowl of water; drain. Chop one carrot,
celery, half of fennel and 1 clove garlic into 1/4-inch dice. Heat 1
teaspoon butter in a large saucepan over medium heat. Add the chopped
leek, onion, carrot, celery, fennel, garlic, fennel seeds, 6 sprigs
thyme and tarragon. Cook, stirringoccassionally, until vegetables are
soft and aromatic, 3 ro 4 minutes. Add lobster shells and bodies;
cook, stirring occassionally, 2 to 3 minutes. Add wine, bay leaf,
tomatoes, parsley and 8 cups water. Raise heat to high and bring to a
boil. Reduce heat to medium low and simmer for about 1 hour. Halve
remaining leek and cut into 1/4-inch thick slices. Place in a bowl of
water for 5 minutes, then drain. Slice remaining carrots into
1/8-inch matchsticks; cut remaining fennel into 1/4-inch dice. Smash
the remaining garlic clove. Set all vegetables aside. Remove stock
from heat and strain, pressing on solids. Discard solids. Melt
remaining 2 teaspoons butter in a large shallow saucepan over medium
heat. Add sliced leeks, carrots, fennel, garlic, remaining 2 sprigs
of thyme and salt and pepper, cook until tender, about 7 minutes. Add
stock, raise heat and bring to a boil. Reduce heat to medium low and
simmer for 20 minutes. Meanwhile, slice lobster-tail meat into
medallions bytleave claw meat whole; set aside. Add scallops and
halibut to stock; adjust heat to maintain bare simmer and poach for 1
minute. Add lobster meat, adjust heat and poach until fish is opaque
and lobster is cooked through about 3 to 4 minutes. Discard garlic
clove and thyme sprigs. Stir in watercress and sauternes, if using.
Serve immediately.

: Martha Stewart Living, May 1996
Recipe By

From: Debbie Barry - Innermail   Emc.Ve

