Title: SEAFOOD CROQUETTES
Categories: Seafood
Yield: 4 Servings
3 tb Unsalted butter
1/2 sm Onion; finely minced
1/2    Celery stalk; finely diced
3 tb All-purpose flour
1/3 c  Milk
1/4 ts Ground nutmeg
Bread crumbs
1 lb Cooked fish and/or shellfish
- such as salmon, shrimp,
- scallops, white fish,
- or a combination
1 tb Finely chopped parsley
1 tb Chopped chives
1 ts Salt; or as desired
1/4 ts Cayenne pepper; as desired
Flavorless cooking oil
MELT THE BUTTER in a small skillet over medium heat. Add the onion and
celery and cook, stirring occasionally, 5 minutes or until soft. Add
the flour, stirring to form a paste. Add the milk and nutmeg and cook
another minute or so until mixture thickens. Meanwhile, place bread
crumbs on a plate. Scrape the mixture into a mixing bowl and add the
fish, parsley, chives, salt and pepper. Using 2 forks, mash the fish
into the mixture. Drop tablespoon dollops of the mixture into the
bread crumbs. Roll each dollop in bread crumbs, then between the
palms of your hands to form balls. Set croquettes aside on a plate
while making the rest. Fill a medium-sized cast iron or other heavy
skillet with a 1 1/2-inch depth of oil and place over medium heat on
the stove. Heat the oil to frying temperature--350F. When the oil is
hot enough for frying, a droplet of water will dance across the
surface of the hot oil and evaporate. Drop croquettes carefully into
the hot oil. Fry croquettes, in batches if necessary, without
crowding the skillet, until golden brown, about 3 minutes. Using a
slotted spoon, remove croquettes from the oil as they are done and
drain on paper towels. Place a linen napkin on a platter and arrange
the croquettes in a pile. Serve immediately and accompany with tomato
mayonnaise. TO FREEZE the mixture: Place croquettes on a lightly
oiled cookie sheet and place in the freezer. When the croquettes are
frozen, transfer them to airtight plastic bags or a lidded freezer
container. Cook frozen uncooked croquettes directly from the freezer,
increasing cooking time to 5 minutes. TO FREEZE COOKED CROQUETTES:
Cool cooked croquettes to room temperature, uncovered. Place in an
airtight plastic freezer bag or lidded container. Label and place in
freezer for up to 3 months. To cook frozen cooked croquettes, place
on a cookie sheet and place in preheated 375F oven for 20 minutes.

