Title: SEAFOOD~ CHICKEN~ & CORN CAKES
Categories: Shell, Chicken
Yield: 4 Servings
6 tb Unsalted butter
1/2 ts Salt
1/2 c  Yellow cornmeal
2    Bnlss sknlss chicken breasts
4 lg Shrimp
3 tb Olive oil
4 lg Scallops
4    Clams
4    Mussels
1 ts Minced garlic
2 tb Finely minced shallots
1/4 c  White wine
1/2 c  Chicken broth
1/4 ts Saffron threads
1/2 ts White pepper
1/4 c  Whipping cream
Salt, as desired
Generously butter 9-inch square pan with 1 tablespoon butter. Combine
2 cups water, salt, and 1 more tablespoon butter in 2-quart saucepan
over high heat and bring to boil. Slowly add cornmeal, stirring
constantly. Cook until mixture bubbles, stirring constantly. Reduce
heat to low and continue to stir until mixture is thick and begins to
pull away from sides of pan, about 25 minutes. Pour into prepared
pan, spreading evenly. Let cool completely. Cut polenta into 1-inch
squares or circles. Remove from pan and set aside.

Remove tenderloins from chicken breasts and set aside on plate. Cut
each breast into 2 or 3 lengthwise pieces and set aside. Peel shrimp,
leaving tails intact, and devein them. Set aside.

When it's time to prepare dinner, toss corn cakes with 2 tablespoons
oil and arrange on baking sheet. Bake at 350 degrees 20 minutes,
turning once.

Heat remaining 1 tablespoon oil in medium skillet over medium heat.
Add chicken pieces and tenderloins, shrimp, scallops, clams, mussels,
garlic, and shallots. Add wine and cook 1 minute before adding broth,
saffron, and pepper. As ingredients are done, remove them from
skillet and set aside on plate. Remove scallops first, then shrimp.
Remove clams and mussels as they open. Discard unopened ones. Finally
remove chicken. Add cream to skillet and cook until liquid reduces
and becomes sauce-like. Return all reserved ingredients to sauce.
Swirl in butter. Season to taste with salt.

To serve, mound corn cakes in center of platter. Arrange piles of
chicken, shrimp, scallops, clams, and mussels around corn cakes and
spoon sauce over seafood and chicken. Serves 4.

The Record, Northern New Jersey, August 25, 1991

