Title: SEAFOOD STUFFED FLOUNDER
Categories: Cajun, Main dish, Fish
Yield: 6 Servings
MMMMM-----------------------SEASONING MIX----------------------------
1 ts Salt
1/2 ts Sweet paprika
1/2 ts Black pepper
1/2 ts Dried thyme leaves
1/2 ts Sweet basil
1/2 ts Gumbo file (optional)
MMMMM----------------------MAIN INGREDIENTS---------------------------
3    Slices bacon, diced
1 1/2 c  Onions, chopped very fine
1 c  Green bell peppers, chopped
1/4 lb + 1 Tbsp unsalted butter
3/4 ts White pepper
3/4 ts Ground cayenne pepper
1/2 lb Small shrimp
1 1/2 c  Basic seafood stock
6    Shucked oysters (med. size)
3/4 c  All-purpose flour
1/2 c  Green onions, chopped fine
1/4 c  Grated Parmesan cheese
MMMMM-------------------FLOUNDER SEASONING MIX------------------------
2 ts Salt
1 ts Sweet paprika
1/2 ts White pepper
1/2 ts Onion powder
1/2 ts Garlic powder
1/2 ts Dry mustard
1/4 ts Ground cayenne pepper
1/4 ts Dried thyme leaves
1/4 ts Dried sweet basil leaves
6    Flounders (see note)
1 1/2 c  Grated cheddar cheese
Vegetable oil for frying
NOTE: Flounder should be 1 to 1-1/4 pounds each, boned, heads removed
and brown side split down the center. Combine the first seasoning mix
ingredients in a small bowl; mix well and set aside. In a large
skillet fry the bacon over high heat until crisp. Add onions, celery
and bell peppers. Stir well and saute until vegetables start to get
tender, about 5 minutes, stirring occasionally. Add 3 tablespoons of
the butter and the white and red peppers; stir until butter is
melted. Stir in the shrimp and the first seasoning mix. Continue
cooking for about 3 to 5 minutes, stirring occasionally and scraping
pan bottom well. Stir in the stock and the oysters; cook and stir
about 6 to 8 minutes. Remove from heat. Use a slotted spoon to spoon
the seafood vegetable mixture into a food processor or blender,
leaving the liquid in the skillet; process mixture until smooth,
about 15 to 30 seconds. Return mixture to skillet, stirring to blend
with liquid; turn heat to high, and cook until mixture starts
sticking excessively, about 5 minutes, stirring occasionally and
scraping pan bottom well. Remove from heat. Meanwhile, in a 1-quart
saucepan melt the remaining 6 tablespoons butter over high heat; when
almost melted, remove from heat, then add 1/4 cup of the flour and
stir until mixture is smooth. Return to high heat for 1 minute,
stirring constantly. Turn heat to high under the stuffing mixture;
gradually add the butter-flour mixture, stirring constantly until
well blended. If mixture starts "weeping" oil at this point, stir in
about 2 tablespoons more stock or water.) Continue cooking until very
thick, about 1 to 2 minutes, stirring constantly. Add the green
onions and cook 1 minute more, stirring constantly. Remove from heat
and stir in the Parmesan. Cool slightly, then refrigerate until
chilled, about 30 minutes. In a small bowl thoroughly combine the
flounder seasoning mix ingredients. Open the flounders for stuffing.
Sprinkle 1/4 teaspoon ofthe seasoning mix on the inside of each
flouner. Mound 1/4 cup of the cheddar cheese in the center of each,
then spoon a scant 1/2 cup chilled stuffing on top of the cheese.
Close the fish so the stuffing doesn't show. Cover and refrigerate
for 1 to 2 hours. Sprinkle 1/4 teaspoon of the seasoning mix on each
side of each chilled flounder, patting it in with your hands. In a
pan (cake and pie pans work well) combine the remaining seasoning mix
with the remaining 1/2 cup flour. In a large, heavy skillet heat 1/4
inch oil over high heat to about 350F. Meanwhile, place each flounder
(split side up) in the seasoned flour to coat only the bottom
surface. Carefully slide each flounder into the hot oil and fry the
bottom until it's crispy, crunchy and brown-brown!-- about 3 to 4
minutes. Without draining, place the flounder, still split side up,
on an ungreased cooke sheet. Bake at 550F until the fish are cooked
and well browned on top, about 10 minutes (after about 4 minutes,
drape a piece of aluminum foil over the tails so they won't burn).
Serve immediately as is, or topped with Hollandaise Sauce, Shrimp and
Crab Buttercream Sauce, or Bearnaise Sauce From Paul Prudhomme's
Louisiana Kitchen

