Title: SEITAN PARMESAN
Categories: Vegetarian
Yield: 6 Servings
6 sl Seitan; each 1/4-inch thick
3 tb Gluten flour
1/2 c  Whole wheat pastry flour
1 ts Sea salt
1 tb Basil; chopped
1 tb Oregano; chopped
1/4 ts White pepper
1/2 c  Olive oil
2 c  Tomato sauce
Vegan Cheese; see recipe
MMMMM------------------OPTIONAL: BATTER DIPPED-----------------------
1 c  Whole wheat pastry flour
1/4 c  Gluten flour
1/2 ts Salt
1/2 c  Water
1/2 c  Beer
In this recipe, the thickness of the seitan "cutlets" is important.
If your seitan loaf is too small to yield six slices of about 4
ounces each, you may have to divide the slices into smaller pieces;
just make sure that each slice is about 1/4-inch thick. Drain the
seitan but leave it slightly moist.

Put the gluten flour in a large bowl so it can be used to dredge the
seitan. In another large bowl, mix the pastry flour, salt, basil,
oregano, and pepper. In a third bowl, have a little water available,
if needed.

Dredge the pieces of seitan in the gluten flour and, if the seitan is
sticky-moist, dip it directly into the seasoned flour mixture and coat
thoroughly. If the seitan is too dry after being dipped into the
gluten, give it a quick flash dip into the bowl of water and then
into the seasoned flour. Lay the dredged seitan on a piece of floured
plastic wrap. Set aside until you are ready to fry the seitan.

To fry the seitan, heat the oil in a large skillet over medium heat.
When the oil is hot (but not smoking), add the seitan and saute both
sides until brown. Remove and drain on paper towels for a few
minutes. Then place the cutlets on a baking sheet and top with 1/2
cup of tomato sauce and 2 tablespoons cheese. If all of the
ingredients are warm, the baking time will be substantially shorter.
Bake at 375 degrees F for about 10 to 20 minutes. Serve hot, straight
from the oven, with a pasta of your choice and vegetables.

VARIATIONS: You can also make this recipe using batter-dipped seitan.
Mix the flours and salt together. Add the water and the beer, and mix
until the batter is smooth. If necessary, add more beer to thin out
the batter to the consistency of heavy cream. Follow the directions
for making Seitan Parmesan up to and including dredging the seitan
with gluten flour. Dip the floured seitan cutlets into the batter and
then immediately into the hot oil. Brown on both sides and serve as
suggested above.

Source: "Friendly Foods" by Brother Ron Pickarski

