Title: SFOGLIATELLE
Categories: Italian, Desserts
Yield: 12 Shells
Pastry
3 c  All-purpose flour
1/2 ts Salt
3/4 c  Shortening
1/2 c  Melted shortening
***
Filling
1 1/2 lb Ricotta
8 tb Confectioners sugar
3 tb Minced candied orange and
-citron peel
2    Eggs
1 tb All-purpose flour
1/2 ts Vanilla
1    Egg white
Melted shortening
Confectioners sugar
Sift flour and salt and turn into bowl.  Cut in shortening with
fingers to mealy consistency.  Add enough water (approx. 1/2 c) to
hold mixture together. Dough should be not too hard or too soft
(similar to egg noodle dough).  Knead well several minutes.  Form
into ball and refrigerate for 30 minutes to enable it to lose
elasticity and roll out easily. Roll dough very thin on lightly
floured board into rectangular pice measuring about 28 x 24 inches.
Cut edges evenly, then cut into 4 pieces lengthwise, 28 x 6 inches.
Using a brush, spread melted shortening generously and evenly over
one strip, top with second strip and spread with shortening. Repeat
with the third and fourth strips, separating each strip by a layer of
shortening.  Let shortening cool and set.  Using great care, roll four
strips together, as for jelly roll, starting from shorter end. Wrap
in wax paper and refrigerate about 15 minutes. Remove wax paper and
cut ends evenly using a short thing knige.  Cut roll into 12 1/2 inch
pieces (For easier cutting, dip knife in flour before cutting dough).
Slices will resemble narrow rolls of ribbon.  Place on lightly
floured board and sprinkle lightly with flour. Gently place rolling
pin a center of slice and roll out from center toward left. Return
rolling pin to center and roll out from center toward right.  The
slice, fromerly round, will be a larger and thinger oval shape.
Gently roll again from center toward top with one stroke and from
center toward bottom with one stroke. The oval should measure about 7
1/2 inches at its longest part. Placed prepared oval on lightly
floured board, rolled side down. Proceed as above with the other
pieces, arranging finished ovals on board, side by side. Prepare
Filling: Preheat oven to 400 degrees.  Drain ricotta through cheese
cloth until quite dry.  Place in bowl, stir in remaining ingredients
and blend throroughly.  Place a tb or two of ricotta mixture on lower
half of each oval, wet edges of dough with a little egg white and
fold over filling, bringing narrow edges together to form a
shell-like shape. Press edges together tightly to seal in filling.
Brush each shell with melted shortening.  Bake about 15 minutes, then
quickly brush more melted shortening over shells using light, gentle
strokes. Close oven door quickly, lower heat to 350 and bake another
20 minutes. Brush once more with shortening. Pastries will puff up
and have a beautiful golden color showing shell-like ribs or lines.
Lower heat to 250 and bake another 5 to 10 minutes.  Cool on rack.
When cold, durst with confectioners sugar.

