Title: SHAKE 'N' SMOKE RIBS (HOW-TO)
Categories: Rubs
Yield: 1 Servings
MMMMM------------------------THE DRY RUB-----------------------------
2/3 c  Dark Brown Sugar, packed
1/4 c  Paprika
2 tb Garlic Powder
1 tb Cayenne pepper
1 tb Black Pepper
1 tb White Pepper
2 ts Coriander, ground
1 ts Salt
~-------------------THE MOP----------------------------------
1 tb Butter
1 ea Medium Onion, grated
8 ea Cloves garlic, miced
1 ea 12 oz can tomato paste
1 c  Red wine vinegar
1/2 c  Water
1/2 c  Molasses
1/2 c  Packed Dark Brown Sugar
3 tb Worcestershire sauce
3 tb Chili powder
1 tb Dry mustard

Note:

These instructions are for beginning smoke/cooker enthusiasts. It
should work equally well in the Brinkman type of water/cookers as
well as most other cookers. The main requirement is the ability to
maintain the cooking chamber temperature between 180 and 250 degrees
and the cooker must have a water pan to maintain the humidity close
to 100%. Add all of the ingredients for the rub into a ziplock bag
and mix thoroughly. Add the ribs, shake throughly to ensure complete
covering of the ribs and store in the refrigerator overnight.

About 5 1/2 - 6 hours before you plan on serving the ribs, fire up the
smoker and make the sauce.  To make the sauce, saute the onion and
garlic in a little oil until golden brown. Then add the remaining
ingredients and stir frequently until everything is totally
dissolved. Cook on simmer for about 30 minutes.

Once the cooker has settle down to a good bed of coals, place the
ribs on the grill over a pan of cold water. Let smoke, covered and
undisturbed for about 2 hours. At that point, open the smoker lid and
basted the ribs well with the mop, taking this opportunity to check
the coals in the fire pan and the liquid level in the water pan.
Replenish as needed, adding wet wood for plenty of smoke as well.
Cook the ribs for 3 hours more, turning and basting them after 1 hour
and agian after 2 hours. As always in smoke cooking, precise timing
is not terribly important here. Just keep the smoke up and the
temperature between 180 and 240 degrees and be liberal with your
mopping.

By the end of their 5 hours on the grill, the ribs will have long
since reached the required internal temperature of 185 for fresh
pork, but you can't overdoo ribs by smoking, and the long, slow
cooking will have rendered them tender to a tee.

About 10 minutes before you are ready to serve the ribs, treat them
to a final mop, letting it set to a tantalizingly rich glaze over
what may be the most succelent ribs you've ever tasted.

For finger-licking aficionados, provide yet more hot mop sauce served
up in dipping bowls.  A finger bowl for cleaning the hands will be
appreciated and many, many napkins for cleaning up... Enjoy

Source:  Where There's Smoke, There's Flavor by Richard W. Langer

