Title: SHELLS WITH SPRING VEGETABLES
Categories: Pasta, Meatless
Yield: 4 Servings
1 lb Medium Shells or Radiatore
-OR other medium pasta
-shape, uncooked
2    Red bell peppers
6 sm Plum tomatoes
4 tb Unsalted butter; divided
1    Carrot; finely chopped
1 md Onion; finely chopped
8    Shiitake mushrooms
-(medium to large size,
- about 12 oz.), stemmed &
- sliced 1/2-inch thick, OR
12 oz -Button mushrooms,
-sliced 1/4-inch thick
8 lg Asparagus stalks
- cut on the diagonal
- in 1/2-inch pieces
3/4 c  Low-sodium chicken broth
1 c  Thinly sliced fresh basil
- (loosely packed)
Salt
Freshly ground pepper
Cut the red bell peppers in half, cut out the cores and scrape away
the seeds. Cut into 1/4-inch strips.

Core the tomatoes and cut a small "x" in the end opposite the core.
Blanch the tomatoes in a small saucepan of boiling salted water just
until the skins are loosened, about 10 seconds for a round tomato or
up to 1 minute for tough-skinned plum tomatoes. Drain the tomatoes
immediately and place them in a bowl of cold water. When cool, drain
the tomatoes and slip off the skins. Cut the tomatoes in half and
scrape out the seeds. Cut the tomatoes in 1/2-inch cubes.

Prepare pasta according to package directions. While pasta is
cooking, heat 1 tablespoon of the butter in a large saucepan over
medium heat. Add the carrot and onion and cook until softened, about
4 minutes. Add the tomatoes and cook, stirring occasionally, for 3
minutes. Add the mushrooms, asparagus, chicken broth, basil and red
bell peppers. Stir well. Add the remaining butter, increase the heat
to high and cook, stirring constantly, until the sauce is boiling and
the butter is completely melted.

Drain pasta and transfer to a serving bowl. Pour vegetable sauce over
pasta and toss lightly. Add salt and pepper to taste and serve
immediately.

Serves 4 to 6

Each serving provides: 463 Calories; 13.6 g Protein; 79.4 g
Carbohydrates; 11.4 g Fat; 25.2 mg Cholesterol; 116 mg Sodium.
Calories from Fat: 22%

Copyright National Pasta Association (http://www.ilovepasta.org)
(Reprinted with permission)

