Title: SHRIMP IN RED SAUCE
Categories: Seafood, Chinese
Yield: 1 Servings
1 lb Shrimp; large, uncooked
1 ts Salt
1 tb Rice wine
Ginger, fresh, 2" piece
3    Scallions
1 tb Cornstarch
1/4 c  Water
1 tb Peanut oil
1 tb Water (or more)
3 tb Peanut oil
3 tb Ketchup
5 tb Water
1/2 ts Sugar
1/4 ts Salt
1. Rinse the shrimps well under running water. Pull off legs, but
leave the shells on.* Using a scissors, cut a small slit about
one-third of the way up the back of the shell. (This will allow the
marinade and cooking sauce to penetrate the shrimps more easily. You
can, if you want, also remove the dark intestine on the back of the
shrimp.)

2. Put the shrimps in a bowl and add 1 teaspoon salt and the rice
wine.

3. Peel the ginger and chop it into small pieces, about the size of a
match head. Add 1 teaspoonful of the chopped ginger to the shrimps in
the bowl and set the rest aside. Stir the shrimps well, then let
stand for at least 30 minutes.

4. Clean the scallions, then chop the white parts into the same size
pieces as the ginger.

5. Mix the cornstarch and 1/4 c water together in a small bowl.

COOKING: 6. Pour off the excess liquid from the shrimps, but don't
rinse them off. (It is all right for the little bits of ginger to
remain on the shrimps.)

7. Heat the pan over a fairly high flame for about 15 seconds, then
add 1 tablespoon peanut oil. The oil will be hot enough to cook with
when the first tiny bubbles form and a few small wisps of smoke
appear.

8. Throw in the shrimps and stir-fry them over high heat for 1 or 2
minutes, until they are nearly cooked, using your cooking shovel or
spoon in a scooping motion to toss the shrimps around in the pan so
they are all exposed to the hot oil. When the shrimps are almost
done, they will begin to turn pink and become slightly stiff. (If
they seem too dry, you can add a little water during the stir-frying
process.)

9. Lower the heat, cover the pan, and let the shrimps cook for 5
minutes more. Then remove them from the pan and set them aside.

10. Clean out the pan by wiping it with a paper towel, then reheat it
over a fairly high flame. Pour in 3 tablespoons fresh peanut oil.
When it is hot enough, quickly add the rest of the chopped ginger,
scallions, and ketchup and stir-fry vigorously for no more than
10    seconds.

11. Immediately add 5 tablespoons water, the sugar, and 1/4 teaspoon
salt and let the mixture come to a boil. Let it cook for about 1
minute, then return the shrimps to the pan.

12. Stir the cornstarch and water thoroughly to make sure they are
well combined, then pour the mixture into the pan. Stirfry the
shrimps and the sauce until the sauce has become clear and thick;
this should not take more than about 30 seconds.

13. Taste the sauce for salt before you serve it, and stir it up a
little on the serving platter just before you bring it to the table.
(This is to make sure that no film has formed on the sauce that would
spoil its bright, fresh appearance.)

14. Serve over rice.

Source: "Mrs. Chiang's Szechwan Cookbook" by Ellen Schrecker.

*NOTE: I've always shelled the shrimp first.

