Title: SHRIMP WONTON SOUP
Categories: Foreign, Soups, Holiday
Yield: 4 Servings
3/4 lb Raw shrimp, shelled,
-deveined, rinsed and
-drained
1/2 c  Water chestnuts, plunged
-into boiling water and
Refreshed in cold water,
-drained and chopped
2 ts Soy sauce
1 tb Rice wine or sake
1 1/2 ts Sesame oil
1/2 ts Salt
1/4 ts Freshly ground pepper
1 1/2 tb Minced fresh ginger
1 1/2 tb Minced scallions
1    Egg white, lightly beaten
1 1/2 tb Cornstarch
TO ASSEMBLE:
48    Wonton skins
Cornstarch for dusting
TO FINISH:
4 c  Homemade chicken broth
1 ts Salt
1/2 ts Sesame oil
10 oz Fresh spinach, stems
-removed, rinsed and drained
FILLING:

Place the shrimp in a linen dish towel or on paper towels and squeeze
out as much moisture as possible. Chop the shrimp to a paste in a food
processor fited with a steel blade or by hand. Place the water
chestnuts in a towel and squeeze out as much moisture as possible.
Place the shrimp paste, water chestnuts, soy sauce, rice wine, sesame
oil, salt, pepper, ginger, scallions and egg white in a mixing bowl.
Using your hand or a spoon, stir vigorously in one direction to
combine the ingredients evenly. Add the cornstarch and stir to blend.
The mixture should be stiff.

Use a fork, teaspoon or two chopsticks to place a scant teaspoonful
of the filling in the center of each wonton skin. Gather the edges of
the skin together around the filling and squeeze to form a "waist" as
you gradually remove the fork, teaspoon or chopsticks. Squeeze the
"waist" and the ends shut to enclose the filling. The finished
dumpling should look like a drawstring purse.  Place the finished
dumplings on a tray that has been lightly dusted with cornstarch.

Heat 3 quarts of water to boiling in a large pot.  Add the wontons and
cover.  Once the water is boiling again, cook for about 4 minutes or
until they rise to the surface. Remove with a long-handled strainer
and drain. Discard the water.  Heat the chicken stock, salt and
sesame to boiling. Add the spinach and cooked wontons and portion
into serving bowls. Serve.

Makes 4 servings.

Per Serving:  82 Calories, 9 g Protein, 6 g Carbohydrates, 2 g Fat,
.4 g Saturated Fat, 44 mg Cholesterol, 494 mg Sodium.

[Nina Simonds, The Washington Post; Jan 29 1992]

Posted by Fred Peters.

Courtesy of Shareware PROFESSIONAL RECIPE CLIPPER 2.0

