Title: SHRIMP IN CHINESE LOBSTER SAUCE
Categories: Chinese, Fish
Yield: 2 Servings
Stephen Ceideburg
1 lb Jumbo shrimp (21-25 per
-pound)
1 tb Fermented black beans
2    Garlic cloves, minced
1    Quarter-sized slice fresh
-ginger, peeled, minced
1 tb Shao Hsing rice wine, or dry
-sherry
2 tb Peanut or corn oil
1/2 ts Salt
6 oz Ground pork butt
1 sm Onion, cut into 1-inch cubes
1    Bell pepper, cut into 1-inch
-cubes
1/2 ts Sugar
Big pinch white pepper
1/2 tb Light soy sauce
3/4 c  Chicken stock
2 ts Cornstarch, blended with:
1 tb Water
1 lg Egg, lightly beaten
1    Green onion, chopped
1 ts Asian sesame oil
Shell and de-vein the shrimp. Butterfly shrimp by slicing them down
the length of the back, stopping just above the tail. Rinse with cold
water and blot dry.

Cover the black beans with lukewarm water; let soak for 5 minutes.
Drain. Combine with the minced garlic and ginger; gently crush into a
paste. Mix in the wine; set aside.

Place a wok over medium-high heat. When hot, drizzle in half of the
oil. Add the shrimp and stir-fry until they begin to curl and turn
bright orange, about 1 minute. Remove to a dish and keep warm.

Reheat wok over medium heat; add remaining tablespoon of oil and the
salt. Add the black bean paste and saute a few seconds until it
becomes aromatic. Increase heat to medium-high. Add the pork and
stir-fry until the morsels are no longer pink, about 3 minutes.

Add onions, peppers, sugar, white pepper and soy sauce; toss together
until the vegetables begin to soften, about 1 minute. Add the stock
and keep tossing until it comes to a boil.

Stir the cornstarch mixture to recombine, then drizzle into the
center of the work, stirring constantly, until mixture thick- ens,
about 20 seconds.

Turn off the heat and slowly stir in the beaten egg to combine the
mixture into a creamy sauce. return the shrimp to sauce, add the
green onions and swirl in the sesame oil.

Serves 2 as a complete meal, or up to 6 with other entrees.

PER SERVING (6servings): 225 calories, 19 g protein, 5 g
carbohydrate, 14 g fat (4 g saturated), 149 mg cholesterol, 530 mg
sodium, 0 g fiber.

From an article by Joyce Jue, San Francisco Chronicle, 1/6/93.

