Title: SINGAPORE STIR-FRIED RICE STICK NOODLES
Categories: Ethnic, Pasta
Yield: 4 Servings
Stephen Ceideburg
6    Dried Chinese black
-mushrooms
1/2 lb Rice stick noodles (about
-1/16-inch thick)
3 tb Peanut or corn oil
2    Quarter-size slices fresh
-ginger
1/2 ts Salt
1/2 lb Medium shrimp, shelled and
-deveined
1    Whole chicken breast,
-skinned, boned and cut into
-shreds
1/4 lb Chinese barbecued pork, cut
-into match stick strips
1 sm Onion, cut lengthwise into
-thin slices
1    Stalk celery, cut into
-diagonal thin slices
1/4 lb Fresh snow peas, stems
-removed and julienned
1/2    Green bell pepper, seeded
-and thinly sliced
2    Green onions, cut into 1
-1/2-inch lengths
1    To 2 tablespoons Indian
-Madras-style curry powder
1 ts Sugar
1 tb Dark soy sauce
1 tb Light soy sauce, or more if
-needed
4 tb Chicken stock, or more if
-needed.
In this popular Cantonese teahouse specialty, the rice noodles are
permeated with an aromatic infusion of curry spices and herbs,
seasonings borrowed from Indian and Malay cooking-- both cuisines are
indigenous to Singapore.

Cover mushrooms with warm water. When soft and pliable, remove and
squeeze dry. Cut off and discard stems. Cut caps into thin slices.

Bring a large pot of water to a boil. Add noodles; using chopsticks,
stir and loosen noodles. When soft and pliable, about 30 seconds,
drain them into a colander. Cover and let cool.

Preheat wok until hot. Add 2 tablespoons of the oil, 1 slice of the
ginger, the chicken, shrimp and pork; stir-fry until shrimp and
chicken feel firm to the touch, about 1 minute. Remove and set aside.
Pick out and discard ginger.

To hot wok add remaining oil, ginger and salt, crushing ginger against
sides of wok. When oil is hot, toss in onions, celery, snow peas,
mushrooms, bell pepper and green onion; stir- fry until tender and
crisp (1 to 2 minutes). Push vegetables to side of wok. Add curry
powder to center of wok and lightly saute for 10 seconds. Then add
sugar, soy sauce and chicken stock. Mix.

Add noodles; combine,with vegetables by using chopsticks, to lift,
shake and separate strands of noodles, until they are evenly coated
with sauce, moist but not wet and begin to cling to each other. (Add
more chicken stock if noodles seem too dry). Return meat mix mixture,
taste for seasoning. Toss to heat through.

PER SERVING: 665 calories, 46 g protein, 61 g carbohydrate, 26 g fat
(7 g saturated&4, 151 mg cholesterol, 146 mg sodium, 5 g fiber.

Joyce Jue writing in the San Francisco Chronicle, 8/7/91.

