Title: SMOKED BEAN RAGOUT
Categories: None
Yield: 9 Servings
1 c  Dried white beans
1 c  Dried baby lima beans
6 c  Water
1/2 ts Liquid Barbecue Smoke.
2    Bay leaves
4    Whole garlic heads
2 c  Cubed peeled butternut
Squash
4 c  Vertically sliced onion
1/2 c  Sherry
1 tb Balsamic vinegar
2 ts Sugar
14 1/2 oz Can vegetable broth
1/2 ts Dried savory
1/2 ts Dried marjoram
1/2 ts Salt
1/2 ts Dried thyme
1/2 ts Pepper
1/4 ts Ground nutmeg
1    Bay leaf
2 c  Chopped tomatoes
Sort and wash beans: place in a Dutch oven. Cover with water to 2
inches above beans, and bring to a boil; cook 2 minutes. Remove from
heat; cover and let stand 1 hour. Drain beans, and return to pan. Add
6 cups water, liquid smoke seasoning, and 2 bay leaves; bring to a
boil. Cover, reduce heat, and simmer 45 minutes. Drain beans in a
colander; discard bay leaves. Set beans aside.

Remove white papery skin of garlic heads, making sure not to peel or
separate cloves. Wrap each head separately in aluminum foil. Bake at
350 for 1 hour; let cool for 10 minutes. Separate cloves, and squeeze
to extract 1/3 cup pulp; discard skins. Set pulp aside.

Steam squash, covered, 6 minutes or until crisp-tender; set aside.

Combine onion and sherry in Dutch oven. Cover and cook over medium
heat 10 minutes. STir in vinegar or sugar. Cook, uncovered, over
medium-high heat 15 minutes or until onion turns dep golden, stirring
frequently. Add beans, garlic pulp, squash, broth, and next 7
ingredients; bring to a boil. Reduce heat; simmer 15 minutes. Remove
from heat; discard bay leaf, and stir in tomato. Yield: 9 servings (1
cup serving size).

NOTES : Nan's Pressure Cooker Adaptations: Soak beans in 6 cup water
overnight. Add vegetable broth, liquid smoke and bay leaves and bring
to high pressure. Cook 5 minutes and let pressure release naturally.
Add garlic, squash, onion, (omit sherry for sauteing) balsamic
vinegar, and spices. Bring back to high pressure. Cook for 5 minutes.
Release pressure and add tomatoes.

Source: It is from an article on vegetarian restaurants in San
Francisco in the March issue of Cooking Light.

Posted by nanetteb@csn.org to the Fatfree Digest [Volume 17 Issue 3]
Apr. 4, 1995.

Individual recipes copyrighted by originator. FATFREE Recipe
collections copyrighted by Michelle Dick 1995. Formatted by Sue Smith,
SueSmith9@aol.com using MMCONV. Archived through kindness of Karen
Mintzias, km@salata.com and Mark Alexander, Mark@alexr.demon.co.uk.

1.80รก

