Title: SMOTHERED PORK CHOPS
Categories: Creole, Pork, Ceideburg 2
Yield: 6 Servings
2 tb Butter
2 tb Flour
1 1/2 c  Rich beef broth
pn Sage leaves, crumbled
6    Thick loin pork chops
1 c  Flour for dredging
Salt and pepper, to taste
1/2 c  Lard
3 lg Onions, sliced
3    Cloves garlic, minced
1/4 c  Celery, minced
We get recipes for Seoul food here but not many for soul food. A big
lack, I think as I love the stuff. The following four recipes are
from the California Culinary Academy over in the city and comprise a
soul food dinner.

No matter where they're served, smothered meat dishes are extremely
popular (and remarkably similar) throughout the South: chops heaped
high with sauteed onions and a spicy brown gravy. This
Mississippi/Louisiana recipe borrows several New Orleans Creole
techniques.

1.  In a small saucepan melt butter over medium-high heat, stir in
the 2 tablespoons flour, and cook, stirring constantly with a wire
whisk, until lightly browned. Stir in broth and sage, mix well,
remove from heat, and set aside.  This mixture will be the sauce.

2.  Add salt and pepper to the 1 cup flour; dredge chops in the
mixture. In a large, heavy skillet heat 1/4 cup of the lard over
medium- high heat. Add chops and cook until they are browned. Move
browned chops to a large, oven proof casserole with a cover. Preheat
oven to 350F.

3.  Melt the remaining lard in skillet over high heat. Add onions,
garlic, and celery; lower heat to medium, and cook, stirring
frequently to avoid burning, until onions are golden (about 8 to 10
minutes). Remove vegetables with a slotted spoon and place over chops
in the casserole.

4.  Pour off all lard from the skillet.  Add reserved sauce, raise
heat to high, bring to a boil, and cook for 1 minute, stirring
vigorously and scraping the bottom of the skillet. Pour sauce over
chops in casserole, cover, and bake for 30 minutes.  Serve with
mashed potatoes.

Serves 6.

From "Regional American Classics", California Culinary Academy,
Chevron Chemical Company, 1987.

Posted by Stephen Ceideberg; November 3 1992.

