Title: SOUR PUMPERNICKEL BREAD**
Categories: Breads
Yield: 6 Servings
1 c  Sourdough Starter
2 c  Nonfat milk
2    Tbl. blackstrap molasses
1/4 c  Unsaturated oil
1 c  Unbleached White Flour
1 c  Whole rye flour
2 c  Whole wheat flour
SECOND DAY PREP:
1    Tbl. salt
Scant 1/2 tsp. baking soda
1/2 c  Whole rye flour
1 1/2 c  To 2 c unbleached enriched
-white flour
1 tb Caraway seeds
1/4 c  Cornmeal
THE GLAZE: optional
x  Egg yolk
1 tb Water
1 tb Caraway seeds
Yield: 3 loaves The texture of this loaf is medium-light making is
perfect for sandwiches and toasting. The overnight rise makes this
pumpernickel easier to knead than most rye recipes. Hints: Spray the
loaves with water to develop a good thick crust. Rye flour can make
for a heavy bread, so don't force in more of the white flour than
required to handle the dough. If you don't want the shininess or the
caraway seeds of the glaze, that step can be omitted.

SOUR PUMPERNICKEL BREAD FIRST DAY PREP: Make up the sponge by
combining in a large bowl all the first-day ingredients, mixing in
the flour 1 cup at a time until the mixture is wet and smooth. Cover
with a wet towel and allow to stand overnight in a draft free place.
At least 12 hours later, stir the sponge down to its original size.
Sprinkle the salt and soda over the surface, then stir in. Stir in
the rye flour. Pour 1 C. of the white flour over your kneading
boards, scrape the batter onto it, and knead the flour in. Then knead
in the caraway seeds. This dough never completely stops sticking, so
you can expect to use another 1/2 C. of white flour to sprinkle the
board and your hands as you knead for another 5 min. to achieve a
dough that can just be handled. Grease two baking sheets and sprinkle
them with white cornmeal. Tap the sheets to spread the cornmeal
evenly. Divide the dough into thirds and shape into three oblong
loaves. Place two loaves on one sheet and one loaf on the other,
leaving room between the loaves for spreading. With a sharp knife or
single-edge razor, slash each loaf diagonally with three slashes, 1/4
to 1/2-inch deep. Cover the loaves with a dry linen dish towel and
put into a warm, draft-free place to rise for 2-3 hours. The loaves
will look well risen and the slashes will gape wide. Gently, slash
again into the same slashes, but only 1/8" deep. Spray the loaves
with water. Starting in a cold oven set at 375^, bake for 40 minutes.
After the loaves have been in the oven for 10 min., pull forward and
spray them again with water. After 30 min., apply the glaze: Mix the
egg yolk and water together, brush thinly over the loaves with a
pastry brush, then quickly sprinkle with caraway seeds. After 40
min., when the loaves are =almost= done, shut off the oven and allow
to sit in the closed oven for another 10 minutes. This AVOIDS
scorching. Cool on a wire rack and serve warm.

SOURCE: BAKE YOUR OWN BREAD, F&S Dworkin From The Cookie-Lady's Files
REformatted for MM:dianeE 6/29/93 ~----

