Title: SOURDOUGH FRENCH BREAD #4
Categories: Breads
Yield: 6 Servings
2 1/4 c  Bread flour
1 c  Starter, at room temp.
1/2 tb Yeast (I use Fermipan or Red
-Star)
1 tb Sugar
1 ts Salt
1/2 c  Tepid water (between 80 and
-90 F)
I take the starter out of the fridge 4 to 8 hours before I plan to
start the bread. I feed it, then let it come up to room temp as it is
digesting the feeding (1/2 cup A.P. Flour and 1/2 cup water). To
start the bread, I measure everything but the water into the machine,
set it for French Bread, and turn it on. I then drizzle the water
into the machine slowly while it is running. That allows me to stop
before 1/2 cup is added, should the flour have absorbed a lot of
humidity from the air. For an extra crispy crust, I spray the dough
lightly with water during the final rise (after the loaf-forming
stage) and slash the top if I'm in the mood for a fancy look.

Rye Variation

Substitute 1/2 cup rye for 1/4 cup bread flour. Add 1 tsp caraway
seed. May need a Tbs or so extra water.

Sourdough Starter

This starter is from the Food Processor Bread Book by the Editors of
Consumer Guide. Published in 1980 by Simon and Schuster. ISBN
0-671-25201-1. I have been using and abusing this starter for years.

1 cup warm water 1 package active dry yeast 1/2 cup instant nonfat
dry milk solids 1/2 cup unflavored natural yogurt 1 1/2 cups all
purpose flour

1. Combine water and yeast in large glass bowl, crock or other
non-metallic container. Stir to dissolve yeast.

2. Add dry milk and yogurt to yeast mixture. Beat with whisk until
blended. Add flour and beat until smooth.

3. Cover bowl tightly*. Let stand in warm place (85F) until starter
has developed a sour aroma and is bubbly, 24 to 36 hours. Stir
occasionally.

4. Keep starter tightly covered in refrigerator. *

5. To use, stir and pour off as much as recipe requires. Replenish
remaining starter by blending in equal parts of flour and milk*. Cover
tightly and let stand at room temperature until bubbly. Refrigerate.
Starter should be used and replenished every two weeks.*

In case you are wondering about those asterisks. Those are places
where I have learned to depart from the stated instructions. BY NO
MEANS, should you ever store your starter tightly covered! This is a
great way to end up spending at least an hour cleaning your fridge. I
keep the starter in an old instant coffee jar which has had the
cardboard liner removed from the lid.

This leaves a bit of a space when you screw down the lid for gas to
escape. Even so, I don't screw down the lid all that tightly. I don't
waste bread flour on the starter, all purpose is fine. I also have
given up feeding milk to the starter, though I occasionally use whey
leftover from making yogurt cheese. I have left this starter in the
fridge unfed for up to six months and found only an inch of booze on
the top that smells like cheap sherry. I generally stir that down
with a dishwasher-safe plastic chopsticks and feed the beast. By next
morning it is happily bubbling and ready to use. You will note that I
feed first and then use. That way the starter can be doing something
while it's coming up to room temperature, which is the best
temperature to use it.

