Title: SOURDOUGH MADE EASY
Categories: Breads
Yield: 6 Servings
12    To 24 hours until bubbly and
-a clear liquid has formed
-on top.
SOURDOUGH STARTER

1.  Heat 1 cup skim (nonfat) milk to 90øF to 100øF.

2.  Stir in 3 tablespoons plain, fresh, high quality yogurt.

3.  Pour mixture into a 1-quart glass or ceramic crock, jar, or bowl.
Cover with a non-metallic lid; set in a warm place (between 70øF to
100øF) for 24 hours.  On a warm day you can place the starter outside
in the sun or on the kitchen counter.  On cooler days, place it in a
gas oven with a pilot light, on top of the water heater, or on a
heating pad set on low.

4.  After 24 hours, the milk will thicken and form curds. At this
point, gradually stir in 1 cup white flour until well blended. Cover
with lid and set in a warm place again until it ferments and bubbles
and a clear liquid forms on top, about 2 to 5 days.  Stir daily.

5.  Starter is now ready to use.  Stir, cover loosely, and
refrigerate.

IF AT ANY POINT IN THE PROCESS THE STARTER TURNS PINK, SMELLS RANCID
(NOT JUST SOUR), OR DEVELOPS A MOLD, THROW IT OUT AND START OVER.

REPLENISHING THE STARTER

Every time you use some of the starter you must replace it with a like
amount of milk and flour.  For instance, if you use 1 cup of starter,
return 1 cup of milk and 1 cup of flour to the jar. Follow the
directions for feeding the starter.

FEEDING THE STARTER TO KEEP IT ALIVE AND HEALTHY

A starter should be used as often as possible, at least every 2 to 3
weeks. If you are not using it that often, plan to feed it once a
month to keep it going.

1.  Bring the starter to room temperature.  (You can place it in a
bowl of warm water to speed the process.)

2.  Add equal amounts of warm milk (90øF to 100øF) and flour (1/2 to
1 cup each)

3.  Cover with lid and allow to stand in a warm place (70øF to 100øF)
for

4.  Stir, cover loosely (set lid on jar but do not tightly seal;
gases must be allowed to escape), and refrigerate.

REJUVENATING A NEGLECTED STARTER

If you forget to feed your starter monthly, don't throw it away
thinking it's gone bad.  Chances are you can still revive it. 1. Pour
off the liquid and discard all but 1 to 2 tablespoons of the starter.
Temporarily place reserved starter in a bowl. 2. Wash out the starter
container with hot water. 3. Put the starter back into the container.
4. Follow the directions for feeding the starter using 1 cup warm
(90øF to 100øF) nonfat milk and 1 cup flour. 5. You may have to
repeat this procedure once or twice to bring it back up to a bubbly,
sour smelling starter again. SOURDOUGH FACTS TO KEEP IN MIND Use only
wooden utensils and glass or ceramic containers. The acid in the
starter will corrode any metal with which it comes in contact. Store
loosely covered in the refrigerator; do not put in a tightly sealed
container.  The gases must be allowed to escape. The yellowish or
grayish-beige liquid that rises to the top is the "hooch". Just stir
it back in before measuring out starter for a recipe. You can refresh
your starter once a year or so with a few tablespoons of fresh,
plain, good quality yogurt. For the sourest taste when making bread,
mix the room temperature starter with the liquid and half the flour
called for in the recipe. Cover and allow to stand in a warm place
until bubbly and sour smelling, about 12 to 24 hours. At that point,
combine the mixture in the bread machine with the rest of the
ingredients in the recipe. Your starter can be frozen up to 3 months.
Before using it again, let it thaw completely at room temperature for
24 hours until bubbly. You may need to feed it once to bring it back
to the bubbly stage after freezing. SUGGESTION: We have included a
recipe for a San Francisco-type Sourdough French Bread. However, we
feel you could create some very unique breads by using your starter
in other recipes such as Tangy Buttermilk Cheese Bread, Basic Whole
Wheat Bread, Lois's Rye Bread, Russian Black Bread, Apple Oatmeal
Bread with Raisins, Dinner Rolls, Squaw Bread, Hamburger Buns, and
English Muffins, just to name a few. Simply add 1/2 cup to 1 cup of
the starter, as desired, to the recipe and decrease the liquid by
approximately half the amount of starter used. (Example: Use 1/2 cup
starter -- decrease the liquid by 1/4 cup.) From: "Bread Machine
Magic Cookbook" by Linda Rehberg, Lois Conway Posted by: Debbie
Carlson - Cooking Echo

