Title: SOUTHERN FRIED FISH & HUSH PUPPIES
Categories: Miamiherald, Fish, Ethnic, Southern
Yield: 6 Servings
MMMMM------------------------FOR THE FISH-----------------------------
1 1/2 c  Corn flour, stone ground
1 ts Salt
1/2 ts Freshly ground pepper
1/4 ts Cayenne or to taste
3 lb Small cleaned fish or filet
-preferrably freshwater
-catfish or sunfish
MMMMM----------------------FOR HUSH PUPPIES---------------------------
1 lg Egg
2 c  Buttermilk
1 3/4 c  Stone ground whole grain
-cornmeal
1/2 c  Minced onion
1 ts Baking powder, scant
1 ts Salt; scant
1 ts Baking sda; scant
Preheat oven to 200 degrees F.  In a stockpot or Dutch oven, pour oil
to a depth of at least 1 1/2 inches. and heat the oil at medium-high
until the temperature reaches 375 degrees. Place wire racks on 2
baking sheets and set aside. In a wide bowl, mix the corn flour,
salt, pepper and cayenne. In a medium-size bowl, prepare the hush
puppies batter: Mix the egg and buttermilk well, then stir in the
cornmeal until well blended, Add the onion, and stir in. Place the
baking powder, salt and baking soda in a small separate container and
set aside while you fry the fish. Dip each fish or fillet into the
seasoned flour, coating well buyt shaking off excess.  Carefully
lower each piece into the oil. Fillt he pot, but do not crowd it. The
oil should bubble up around each piece. Make sure temperature stays
between 365 and 375 degrees. Fry the fish until it is golden all
over, about 2 or 3 minutes on each side. Set aside the remaining corn
flour. Remove the fish pieces from the oil in the same order they
were immersed, using a wire mesh strainer allowing excess to drain.
When fish stops dripping; place it on one of the prepared baking
sheets; then place in oven. Continue until all fish is fried. For the
hush puppies: add the reserved baking powder, salt and baking soda to
the hush puppy batter, and mix well; then, add the leftover seasoned
corn flour to the batter a little at a time, until the batter is
thick enough to be spooned. You will have added about 1/4 to 1/2 cup
of of the corn flour. Make sure the oil has returned to 375 degrees
F; then, drop the batter by spoonfuls into the oil, using 2 teaspoons
~- 1 to scoop the batter and one to scrape it off and into the oil.
Fry the hush puppies until golden all over, about 3 minutes. Drain
each pup well over the pot, and place on the second prepared sheet
pan.  Repeat process until all batter is fried.

Source:  Miami Herald, 2/15/96 format by Lisa Crawford, 7/7/96

