Title: SOUTHWEST STEW
Categories: Beans, Meatless
Yield: 4 Servings
1 c  Small white beans -- dried
4 c  Water
2 c  Shredded cabbage
1 c  Chopped carrots
1/2 c  Chopped onion
2    Jalapeno peppers -- diced
4    Cloves garlic -- crushed
1 ts Kosher salt -- ground
1/4 ts Ground black pepper
10 oz Spinach -- fresh
4    Plum tomatoes -- ripe
8 oz Fresh mushrooms
2 tb Olive oil
2 oz Queso fresco -- crumbled
Or feta cheese (about 1/4 cup) Place beans in a strainer, rinse under
running water removing any debris. In a medium saucepan place beans
and water; bring to a boil; reduce heat and simmer, covered, for 1
hour. Stir in cabbage, carrots, onion, chilies, garlic, salt and
pepper. Continue to simmer, covered, until the beans are tender and
the broth is slightly thickened, 45 minutes to an hour, adding more
water, if necessary, to keep the beans covered with liquid. Wash the
spinach and remove the thick stems. Tear or cut leaves into small
pieces; set aside. Cut tomatoes in halves lengthwise. Remove stems
from mushrooms. Lightly brush tomatoes and mushrooms with olive oil.
Arrange on a broiler pan. Broil under high heat until the tomatoes
and mushrooms are lightly browned, about 4 minutes. Or, the tomatoes
and mushrooms may be arranged on skewers and broiled or charcoal
grilled. Just before serving, stir spinach into the white beans;
cover and cook for 3 to 4 minutes. Spoon the white bean mixture onto
individual serving plates; arrange broiled tomatoes and mushrooms
over the beans. Drizzle lightly with remaining olive oil and sprinkle
with queso fresco (cheese). 4 servings. Nutrition information per
serving: 390 calories, 12 grams fat,
800    milligrams sodium.

The Team: Robert Del Grande, chef/owner of Cafe Annie in Houston,
teamed up with registered dietitian Carolyn O'Neil, CNN's Atlanta
nutrition correspondent to develop this recipe.

The American Insitute of Wine and Food has a booklet of recipes
developed by top chefs and nutritionists. Review by Loretta Scott of
the Riverside Press Enterprise, who tested this recipe. "Be sure to
roast or boil the mushrooms and tomatoes, as directed. It adds flavor
to the finished stew." "Somehow I forgot to add the cheese the first
time around; the stew was even better with the cheese the next day."
- PE 2 Apr 92

[mcRecipe 19 Au 96 patH] Recipe By
: Robert del Grande, chef-owner, Cafe Annie, Houston. 1992

From:

