Title: SPANOKOPITA GREEK SPINACH & CHEESE PIE
Categories: Appetizers, Greek, Mc
2 lb fresh spinach
Yield: 8 Servings
1 lb filo dough
1/2 lb feta cheese
7    eggs
1    onion -- diced

Dice the onion and saute it until golden brown.  While the onion is
cooking, wash the spinach. Put it in a bowl and rub lots of salt into
it. Let the spinach/salt sit for 15 minutes. This is meant to reduce
the volume of spinach. An alternative to this is to barely steam the
spinach (30-60 seconds).  Beat the eggs. Crumble the feta cheese and
add to the eggs. (Note that feta cheese is fairly salty.You can
replace half or all of it with ricotta cheese.)  Rinse all the salt
out of the spinach. Add it and the onions to the eggs/cheese and mix.
Also add some spices. The original recipes calls for salt, pepper,
and oregano.I use basil. Melt some butter (at least 2 oz .)  Butter
the bottom of a 9x13 inch baking dish. Lay the filo down one layer at
a time, brushing butter on each layer. Turn each successive layer a
little so they are not all piled directly on top of each other. The
filo will hang over the sides of the dish. Continue until you have
3-5 sheets of filo left.  Pour the filling into the filo. Fold the
filo that hangs over the side over the filling. Place the last pieces
of filo on top, buttering each as you go. Trim off the filo that
hangs over the edge of the dish. These last pieces serve to cover the
filling. Make two or three slits with a knife in the top layers of
filo that go all the way down to the filling. Bake at 375 for 50
minutes. I searched high and low for the perfect spanakopita. This
was darn near perfection. This recipe is from the Vegetarian Epicure
by Anna Thomas. serves 8

~ - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

NOTES : I searched high and low for the perfect spanakopita. This was
darn near perfection. This recipe is from the Vegetarian Epicure by
Anna Thomas. serves 8

From matejka@bga.com Tue Sep 24 09:09:30 1996 This is as good as the
Watermelon Ice I posted earlier in the week!

: Mimi Hiller
Recipe By

Date:
From:

