Title: SPANISH VEGETABLE PAELLA
Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian, Low-fat
Yield: 6 Servings
3    Whole artichokes; OR...
1    -Box frozen baby artichokes
-- thawed
1 lb Fresh fava beans
2    Tomatoes; OR...
1 1/2 c  -Canned whole peeled
-Tomatoes
1 tb Olive oil
1 md Onion; diced
2    Garlic cloves; minced
4 c  Vegetable or chicken broth
1 1/2 c  Paella or arborio rice
1 ts Salt
1/2 ts Saffron
2    Canned roasted red peppers
1/4 ts Black pepper
2 ts Fresh thyme; OR...
1 ts -Dried thyme
1/3 c  Parsley, chopped
Parmesan cheese, grated
Lemon wedges
Steam fresh artichokes 35 to 40 minutes until tender.  Remove tough
outer leaves.  Cut artichoke hearts in quarters and scrape out fuzzy
chokes. If using frozen baby artichokes it's not necessary to precook
them.

Remove fava beans from pods.  Bring one quart water to a boil.  Add
beans to boiling water and simmer two minutes.  Remove beans with a
slotted spoon and transfer to a cold water bath.  This will loosen
their tough outer skins.  Using a small paring knife, carefully peel
skins from beans.

Return water to a boil.  Dunk tomatoes in boiling water until skin
loosens, about 30 seconds.  Transfer tomatoes to a cold water bath.
Peel tomatoes, remove seeds and chop into small pieces.

Heat olive oil in a large skillet or paella pan over medium-low heat.
Add onions and slowly saute until golden, about 10 minutes.  Stir in
garlic and saute 30 seconds.  Transfer tomatoes to a cold water bath.
Peel tomatoes, remove seeds and chop into small pieces.

Heat olive oil in a large skillet or paella pan over medium-low heat.
Add onions and slowly saute until golden, about 10 minutes.  Stir in
garlic and saute 30 seconds.  Add tomatoes and cook until juices
evaporate, about 2 minutes.

Add broth, rice, salt and saffron to onion and tomato mixture.  Bring
to a boil. Reduce heat, cover and cook 25 minutes.  Five minutes
before end of cooking time stir in artichokes, fava beans, roasted
red pepper, black pepper, thyme and parsley.  Serve immediately with
fresh Parmesan cheese and lemon wedges.

Calories per serving: 278 Grams of fat: 4 % fat calories: 13
Cholesterol: 0 mg Grams of fiber: 6.1

Source: Delicious! magazine -- October 1994 Typed for you by Karen
Mintzias

