Title: SPANAKOPITA (VEGAN)
Categories: Vegetarian, Main dish
Yield: 8 Servings
1 pk Phyllo dough
2 tb Olive oil
2    Garlic cloves; minced and
-pressed
1 1/2 c  Onion; cut small
2 tb ;water, as needed, to pre-
-vent sticking
2 lb Spinach, fresh or frozen
MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
10 oz Tofu, silken firm OR
1 1/4 c  Tofu, soft; crumbled small
1/4 c  Lemon juice
1/4 c  Nutritional yeast flakes
1/4 c  Tahini, raw
3 tb Bragg liquid aminos or
-tamari
2 ts Basil
1 ts Thyme
1/2 ts Nutmeg
Thaw 1 page Phyllo dough. In a large fying pan, heat olive oil. Add
the garlic clove, onion and water and saute until tender (8-10
minutes). Add spinach; cover and cook until wilted (2-3 minutes).

In a medium bowl, put the tofu, lemon juice, nutritional yeast
flakes, raw tahini, Aminos or tamari, basil, thyme and nutmeg and
stir, Add the sauteed onions and spinach and stir. Lay thawed phyllo
dough flat on dry surface and cover with damp towel to prevent drying
out.

With pastry brush, lightly brush 7 sheets of filo with olive oil and
layer in bottom of lightly oiled 2 x 7 x 12-inch glass baking dish.
Edges of dough may come up sides. If dough tears, use it anyway,
except top layer, which should not be torn for best appearance.
Spread tofu spinach filling evenly over top of layered dough. Fold
edges of dough over top of filling.
Lightly brush 7 more sheets of phyllo dough down into sides of dish.
Score top layer of phyllo  with sharp knife to show serving-size
pieces. This will make it easier to cut later. Bake, uncovered, at
350 degrees until golden brown on top (20-30 minutes). Serve hot or
cold.

Triangles: To make Spanakopita into little triangles (good for
appetizers or finger food for picnics and travel), lay thawed phyllo
dough flat on dry surface.
Cut sheets of dough into 3 strips (about 3 1/2 x 12 inches) and
cover with damp towel to prevent drying out. Take 2 strips of dough;
brush lightly with olive oil and lay on top of each other. Put 1-2
tablespoons tofu spinach filling on bottom edge of dough. Fold dough
over filling in triangle shape so corner touches opposite long side.
Cut triangle loose. Continue folding like a flag, keeping triangle
shape. Lightly brush top with olive oil. Repeat until tofu spinach
filling is used up. Put on lightly oiled cookie sheet; bake at 350
degrees until golden brown on top (15-20 minutes).

Recipes for a New America by John Robbins and Jia Patton/MM by
DEEANNE

