Title: SPICY ORANGE GINGER & LEMON CHICKEN BREAST
Categories: Poultry, Low-fat
Yield: 2 Servings
Olive oil spray
2    Boned and skinned chicken
Breast halves 7oz. each
1/8 ts Salt
1/4 ts Chili powder
1/4 ts Cumin powder
1/4 ts Dried thyme
1/4 ts Cayenne pepper
2 ts Potato starch, or flour
1    Strip lemon peel, (1x2-inch)
1    Strip orange peel,
-(1x2-inch)
2 ts Minced ginger, fresh
2 sm Garlic cloves, peel and
-slice
1/4 c  Apple juice, or cider
1/2 c  Water, optional
Prep time 5 minutes. Simmer 15 minutes

Mix dry spices together and sprinkle on chicken. Remove rind pieces
from orange and lemon with a vegetable peeler and rough chop. Heat a
saute or skillet large enough to just hold the meat pieces. Spray.
Sear to lightly brown the chicken pieces, both sides. Meanwhile
combine the sauce ingredients in a measuring cup. Pour into the hot
pan and let the liquid boil a bit to cook the thickener. Reduce the
heat to low, cover tightly and cook gently for 15 minutes. Serve with
the cooking juices. Add water or more apple juice if the sauce loses
too much moisture.

Menu * The sauce is spicy, biting and sweet. Taste is similar to some
versions of Pad Thai -- so serve with noodles or angle hair spaghetti
or with hot steamed white rice (either long or medium grain). A dark
green vegetable or medley that includes one would also be a good
choice. . -- original recipe revised and tested by patH (To Eat-LF
4/16/97 phannema@wizard.ucr.edu)

Variation (See JP-note): use dark meat; a thigh with attached leg;
remove skin. Sear, add sauce, and simmer until done about 35 to 40
mins total time: [30% cff] Each serving: 225 cals, 7.6 g fat.

JP-note Pepin's suggested menu * Salad with low-fat caesar dressing *
"Spicy Ginger and Lemon Chicken" Leg and Thigh * Simple brown rice (no
blends) with a little red pepper * Steamed Broccoli * Fresh pears
sprinkled with chopped roasted mixed nuts. Use fresh broccoli, one
crown per person, peel the stalk, and slice; cut florets into 1-inch
pieces. Cook with the rice but do not combine these side dishes.
Recipe by: Jacques Pepin (1996) Cooking with Claudine

Calories 212 Fat 2.3gm Protein 37.4g Carbohydrates 8.3g

