Title: SPICY MANGO SHRIMP ON WILTED GREENS
Categories: Seafood
Yield: 4 Servings
Woodward
Vegetable oil -- for frying
1 lb Shrimp; 21-25, peeled --
De-
1 ts Fresh lime juice
1 ts Light soy sauce
2 tb Flour
1 tb Cornstarch
1/2 ts Baking soda
1    Egg -- slightly beaten
2    Scallions -- thinly sliced
1 tb Fresh ginger -- minced
2 sm Or 3 small dried -- red hot
Minced
1 tb Garlic -- minced
-----SAUCE-----
1/2 c  Sugar
2 tb Light soy sauce
1/4 c  Mango puree
1 tb Dark rum
1 tb Fresh lime juice
-----GREENS-----
1 tb Sherry
1 tb Light soy sauce
1 ts Sugar
8 c  Mixed spring greens and --
Spinach, loosely pac
1/2 c  Cilantro or basil --
Chopped
Mango slices -- for garnish
Carambola slices -- garnish
Slice the shrimp lengthwise in half, rinse in cold water, and pat dry.
Combine the lime juice, soy sauce, flour, cornstarch, baking soda,
and egg in a bowl and mix well. Add the shrimp, cover with plastic
wrap and refrigerate for at least an hour. Mix together the
scallions, ginger, chilies, and garlic in a small bowl and set aside.
Mix together the Sauce ingredients in another small bowl and set
aside.

Heat 2 cups of oil to 350~ in a wok or deep frying pan. Add half the
shrimp and stir briskly until the shrimp turn whitish-pink, 3 to 4
mins. Remove to drain on paper towels.  Cook the rest of the shrimp
in the same manner.

Remove all but 2 tbsp of oil from the wok, add the scallion mixture
and stir at high heat until it begins to color. Add the sauce
ingredients and stir until the mixture bubbles.Return the shrimp to
the wok and stir to coat with the sauce for a minute or two. Transfer
to a holding container and keep warm.

Heat 2 tbsp of oil in the wok, add the sherry, soy sauce, and sugar
and stir to heat through. Add the greens/spinach mixture and stir
briskly at high heat just until wilted.  Remove from the heat, fold
in cilantro/basil and transfer to serving platter.

Place the shrimp on the greens and garnish with mango and carambola
slices. Makes 4 main course servings or 6 to 8 first course servings.

Source:  MIA Herald, 8/31/95

:
Recipe By

