Title: SPICED PUMPKIN BAQUETTES
Categories: Breads, Vegetables, Ice cream, Cookies
1 pk Dry yeast
Yield: 2 Servings
1/2 c  Light brown sugar,packed
1/4 c  Warm water (105 to 115
-degrees)
2 c  All-purpose flour
1 c  Bread flou
2 tb Instant nonfat dry milk
-powder
2 tb Butter, softened
3/4 c  Solid-pack pumpkin
1 ts Ground allspice
1 ts Ground cinnamon
1 ts Salt
Oil and cornmeal for pan
1    Egg white, frothed with fork

This bread can be baked as a conventional loaf in a nine-inch pan or
free-form on a baking sheet; baking time may be a little longer than
baguettes. The ultimate test is rapping the loaf whatever the shape-
on the bottom for telling hollow sound and firm feel (if it's soft,
just pop it back inti the oven a bit longer).

Stir yeast and 1 tablespoon light brown sugar into warm water in
bowl. Let stand until foamy, about 5 minutes. Combine flours, instant
milk powder, soft butter, pumpkin, allspice, cinnamon,and salt in
food processor fitted with dough hook. Turn machine on to mix
ingredients. Slowly add yeast mixture. Mix patiently until dough
cleans sides of bowl (it takes a little longer for pumpkin to work
in). If dough is too sticky, add more flour by tablespoon. If dough
is dry and crumbly add more water or pumpkin by teaspoon. Once
desired moist (not sticky) consistency is achieved, mix until dough
is well kneaded, uniformly supple and soft, about 40 secounds in
processor, about 6 minutes in mixer. (Or alternately by hand, combine
bread ingreidents into large bowl. Mix well and make center space.
Pour yeast mixture into space. With hands, work yeast mixture into
ingredients, then knead dough on floured board until supple and soft,
about 10 minutes.) Transfer dough to large plastic bag, squeeze out
air and seal at top. Place dough in bowl. Let rise in warm spot until
doubled, about 1 1/2 hours. Oil double baguette pan and sprinkle
lightly with cornmeal. Divide dough on floured board. Roll each piece
into long cylinder to fit pan, pinching bottom and ends tightly Place
seam side down in prepared pan. oil piece of plastic wrap, drape
plastic loosely over pan, oiled-side down. Let rise in warm spot
until doubled, about 1 1/2 hours. Slash tops of dough diagonally with
sharp knife. Brush top lightly with egg white. Place in center of
oven and bake at 375 degrees F. until loaf is dark brown and sounds
hollow when wrapped on bottom, about 30 minutes. Immediately remove
loaves from pan to cool on wire rack. (Freeze up to 3 months). Makes
2 baguettes, about 8 servings.

