Title: SPICED VEGETABLE PAKORAS WITH MANGO RELISH
Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
Yield: 4 Servings
1 sm Eggplant
-- cut into 1/4-inch slices
1 ts Salt
2 md Zucchini
-- cut into 1-inch slices
12    Cauliflower florets
6 lg Button mushrooms
-- wiped and cut in half
1 1/3 c  Chick-pea flour
-OR- all-purpose flour
1 tb Chopped fresh coriander
1 ts Salt
2 ts Curry powder
1 tb Olive oil
1 tb Lemon juice
3/4 c  -Ice water, more if needed
Vegetable oil
-- for deep-frying
MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
Lemon wedges
Coriander or parsley
MMMMM------------------------MANGO RELISH-----------------------------
1/4 c  Medium-sweet sherry
1/4 c  -Water
1/4 c  2hite wine vinegar
2 tb Sugar
1    Cinnamon stick
1    Star anise
1/2 ts Salt
1 pn Ground mace
1    Mango
-- peeled, pitted and diced
1 sm Red bell pepper
-- seeded and diced
1 tb Lemon juice
Place the eggplant in a colander, sprinkle with the salt, and let
drain while preparing the other vegetables.

Blanch the zucchini and cauliflower florets separately for 2 minutes
in boiling water.  Drain, refresh under cold water, and dry well.
Rinse the eggplant and pat dry.

Combine the flour, coriander, salt, and curry powder in a large bowl.
Gradually beat in the oil, lemon juice, and water until the batter is
the consistency of heavy cream. Alternatively, place all the
ingredients - except the water - in a food processor, and with the
motor running, pour the water through the funnel until you have the
right consistency.

Heat 4 inches of oil in a deep, heavy-bottomed saucepan to 350
degrees F.

Lightly whisk the batter and dip the vegetables in batches of 5 to 6,
then slip them carefully into the hot oil. Fry the pakoras for 2 to 3
minutes on each side, turning them with a slotted spoon. Remove from
the pan, drain on paper towels, and keep warm in a moderate oven
while you cook the remaining pakoras. Allow the oil to come back to
350 degrees F between batches.

When all the vegetables are ready, garnish with lemon wedges and
coriander or parsley and serve at once with the mango relish.

MANGO RELISH:  Place the sherry, water, vinegar, sugar, cinnamon, star
anise, salt, and mace in a small, heavy-bottomed saucepan. Bring to a
boil and simmer over medium heat for 5 minutes. Add the mango, bell
pepper, and lemon juice; lower the heat and simmer for 5 minutes
more. Remove from the heat and let cool completely. Spoon into a
screw top jar and refrigerate until required.

* Source: The Inspired Vegetarian, by Louise Pickford * Typed for you
by Karen Mintzias

