Title: SPICY SOMEN WITH STEAK STRIPS~ CHILIES & MI
Categories: Beef, Meats, Main dish
Yield: 4 Servings
8 oz Boneless steak, trimmed
4 ea Green onions
1 ea Medium onion
4 ea Garlic cloves
1 ts Salt
6 oz Somen
1 tb Asian sesame oil
6 tb Vegetable oil, divided use
2 ea Serrano chilies, halved
2 tb Soy sauce
2 tb Oyster sauce
1 ea Juice of 2 limes
1/2 c  Beef broth
1 c  Whole fresh mint leaves
Note: Somen is thin white wheat noodles. Cook's notes: Use caution
when working with fresh chilies. Upon completion of slicing, wash
work surface and hands thoroughly; do not touch your eyes. Most
supermarkets stock oyster sauce in their Asian specialty sections.
Procedure: Cut the steak into 3-inch-by-1/4-inch strips. Cut
dark-green part of the onions into 3-inch pieces and finely chop the
remainder. Thinly slice the onion. Mince the garlic. Bring 4 quarts
water and the salt to boil. Add the noodles and cook uncovered over
high heat, stirring with chopsticks or a fork, for 1 1/2 to 2 minutes
or until the noodles are just tender. Refresh under cold water and
drain. Transfer the noodles to a colander in a large bowl. Toss with
sesame oil. Heat 2 tablespoons vegetable oil in a wok or large
skillet over medium- high heat. Add sliced onion and chilies and
stir-fry for 3 to 4 minutes, or until onion is lightly browned.
Transfer to a bowl and reserve. Add 2 tablespoons oil to the wok and
increase the heat to high. Stirfry the steak for 1 to 2 minutes, or
until it just changes color. Transfer the steak to the bowl and
reserve. Lower the heat to medium and add the remaining oil to the
wok. Add garlic and green onions and stir-fry for 30 seconds. Add the
noodles to the pan and heat thoroughly. Add the broth, soy sauce and
oyster sauce and heat thoroughly. Add steak, onion slices, chilies,
mint leaves and lime; stir-fry for 30 seconds. Presentation: Serve
the spicy somen on heated plates. The chilies can be removed or left
in for garnish. Warn your guests: They are extremely hot. Yield:
Makes 4 main-course servings. Nutritional info (per serving): 454
calories, 24 grams fat, 40 milligrams cholesterol, 1,930 milligrams
sodium.

