Title: SPICY PORK TENDERLOIN WITH LEEKS & FENNEL
Categories: Chinese, Pork
Yield: 6 Servings
Pork and marinade:
1 1/2 lb Pork tenderloin -- trimmed
2 tb Soy sauce
2 tb Rice wine or sake
1 tb Garlic -- minced
2 tb Honey
1/2 ts Sesame oil
1/2 ts Vegetable oil
Vegetables and sauce:
1 1/2 lb Fennel bulbs -- trimmed &
Julienned
1/4 c  Soy sauce
1/4 c  Scallions -- chopped
3 tb Rice wine or sake
3 tb Chinese black vinegar or
Worcestershire
1 ts Vegetable oil
2 md Leeks, white and light green
Parts -- julienned
2 tb Ginger -- minced
1 1/4 ts Chili paste
Pork:  Combine the pork, soy sauce, rice wine, garlic, honey and
sesame oil. Turn to coat, cover and refrigerate for at least 3 hours
or up to 8 hours.

Preheat the oven to 400 degrees.  Drain the pork, reserving the
marinade. Heat the oil in a wok or on stick skillet over high heat.
Sear the meat to dark brown on all sides -- 2 to 3 minutes per side.
Roast the pork on a rack, basting it with the reserved marinade every
10 minutes, until the internal temperature registers 150 degrees --
30 to 35 minutes.

Transfer the meat to a cutting board and let it cool slightly. Cut it
into thin slices and set it aside.

Vegetables and sauce:  Meanwhile cook the fennel in boiling water
until it is barely tender -- 3 to 4 minutes. Drain the fennel,
refresh it under cold water, drain again and set it aside.

Combine the soy sauce, scallions, rice wine, vinegar and sugar. Wipe
the wok clean and reheat it.  Heat the oil. Stir fry the leeks,
ginger and chili paste until the leeks are soft -- about 1 1/2
minutes. Add the reserved fennel and toss.  Add the sauce mixture and
pork slices. Toss to coat and serve.

NOTES:

1.  The dish, unlike many Chinese style stir frys, reheats very well.
By the second day, the flavors will have married to create something
very special.

2. The original recipe calls for 1 1/2 teaspoons of chili paste. Cut
this back is you plan to reheat the dish; it heats up considerably
upon standing.

: Eating Well, January 1996
Recipe By

