Title: SPINACH-STUFFED CHICKEN BREASTS WITH MEDEIRA
Categories: Cooking liv, Poultry
For the Stuffed Chicken:
Yield: 1 Servings  :
1 lb whole chicken breasts --
boned but not skinne
:
1 1/2 TB crushed ice
3 TB well chilled heavy cream
1/4 c  firmly packed cooked,
squeezed,
and chopped spinach --
(about 1/2 pound fre
:
:
:
3/4 ts salt
1/4 ts crushed fennel seeds
1/4 ts freshly grated lemon rind
1/8 ts freshly grated nutmeg
1/8 ts freshly ground pepper
1 TB vegetable oil
For the Sauce:
:
1/2 c  Madeira
3/4 c  canned chicken broth
1 ts arrowroot dissolved in 1
TB water

For the Stuffed Chicken:

Arrange the chicken breasts skin side down on a cutting board, making
sure the skin is evenly stretched over the breasts. Remove the fillet
strip from each breast, discard the white tendon, and in a food
processor grind the fillets. Add the ice, blend the mixture until the
piece is absorbed, and with the motor running add the cream.

Add the spinach, the salt, the fennel seeds, the rind, the nutmeg,
and the pepper and blend the filling well, scraping down the sides.
Turn the breasts skin side up and beginning at the pointed end p ull
the skin back carefully, leaving the thin transparent membranes
attached along at the opposite end. Spread 3 tablespoons of the
spinach filling evenly over each breast, smoothing it, and stretch
the skin over the filling for another use such as miniature quenelles
made by poaching small balls of it in clear soup. Chill the chicken,
wrapped tightly in plastic wrap for one hour. In a large ove n proof
skillet heat the oil over moderately high heat until it is hot but
not smoking, add the chicken, skin side down, and season it with salt
and pepper. Saute the chicken for 1 - 2 minutes, or until the skin is
golden brown, turn it skin side up, and bake it, covered, in a
preheated 400 degree oven for 10 minutes. Transfer the chicke n to a
cutting board and let it stand, covered loosely with foil, for 5
minutes.

Make the sauce while the chicken is standing: pour off the fat from
the skillet, add the Madeira, and boil it, scraping up the brown
bits, until it is reduced to about 2 tablespoons. Add the broth an d
boil the mixture, stirring for 1 minute. Stir the arrowroot mixture,
add it to the skillet, whisking, for 1 minute.

Holding a knife at a 45 degree angle slice the chicken crosswise and
arrange the slices, overlapping them slightly, on 4 heated plates.
Spoon some of the remaining sauce separately Yield:

: COOKING LIVE SHOW #CL8732
Recipe By

From: "Jon And Angele Freeman" <jfreemadate: Wed, 9 Oct 1996 11:37:01
~0500

