Title: SPINACH SALAD WITH CRISP RED CHILES
Categories: Mexican, Salads
Yield: 8 Servings
1 lb Spinach -- washed and dried
1/4 lb Watercress -- washed and
Dried
6 lg Anaheim chili peppers -- cut
Crosswise
1/4 c  Olive oil
1 lb Cactus or 15oz nopalitos --
Drained
1 lg Red onion -- thinly sliced
1 c  Radishes -- sliced
1 lb Queso asadero -- cubed
2 lg Avocados
2/3 c  Cider vinegar
1    Clove garlic -- pressed
1 tb Soy sauce
1/4 ts Pepper
Discard spinach stems and any yellow or wilted leaves; wash spinach
and pat dry. Wrap in paper towels, enclose in plastic bags, and
refrigerate for at least 30 minutes or up to 2 days. Also discard
tough watercress stems and yellow leaves; wash and crisp watercress
as for spinach. With scissors, cut chiles crosswise ito thin strips;
discard seeds amd stems. In a 10- to 12 inch frying pan, stir oil and
chiles over low heat until chiles are crosp, 2 to 3minutes(watch
closely to avoid burning). Lift chiles from oil; set aside. Save oil
for dressing. If whole cactus pad has thorns or prickly hairs, hold
pad with tongs and use a knife to scrape off thorns or hairs (wear
gloves). Trim around edge of pad to remove skin and any thorn, then
peel remaining pad if skin is tough. Cut into about 1/2 inch squares.
In a 3 to 4 quart pan, bring about 8 cups water to a boil. Add fresh
cactus, reduce heat, and simmer, uncovered, until cactus is barely
tender when pierced, about 5 minutes. Drain and rinse well with
water. (Cactus is mucilaginous, much like okra.) If using canned
cactus,omit cooking. Tear spinach into bite-sized pieces; you should
have 3 to 4 quarts. Place half the spinach in a large salad bowl. Top
with half each of the watercress, onion, radishes, cactus,and cheese.
Repeat layers. (At this point, you may cover and refrigerate for up
to 4 hours.) To serve, pit, peel, and slice avocados. Arrange
avocados and chiles over salad. Spoon dressing over salad and mix.
CIDER DRESSING: Whisk together oil from chiles, cider vinegar,
garlic, soy sauce, and pepper.

: Best of Sunset
Recipe By

