Title: SPINACH-CARROT TERRINE
Categories: Appetizers, Holiday
Yield: 6 To 8 serv.
-JUDI M. PHELPS
-----FOR PREPARING MOLD-----
2 tb Unsalted butter; softened
1 1/2 tb Parmesan cheese; grated
-------SPINACH MIXTURE------
2    Bunches fresh spinach; about
-1 lb
1/2 c  Cream cheese (4 oz)
1/2 c  Cottage cheese (4 oz)
3    Eggs
1 1/2 tb All-purpose flour
1 md Shallot; finely chopped
1/2 ts Salt
1/8 ts Finely ground white pepper
1/2 c  Cheddar cheese; shredded
-------CARROT MIXTURE-------
1 c  Carrots; shredded
2    Eggs
1 md Shallot; finely chopped
1/2 ts Ground ginger
1/4 ts Salt
1/8 ts Finely ground white pepper
2 tb All-purpose flour
1/4 c  Monterey jack cheese;
-shredded
2 ts Whipping cream
--------FOR GARNISH---------
Parsley or watercress leaves
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.  Heavily butter a 9x5-inch loaf pan.
Sprinkle Parmesan into mold and tap sides of mold to distribute cheese
evenly over base and sides. Turn upside down and tap to remove excess
cheese.

For spinach mixture:  Remove spinach stems and rinse leaves
thoroughly. Coarsely chop leaves.  Immerse spinach in large pan of
boiling water and boil for 1 minute. Drain and wring out excess
moisture. Reserve. Using mixer or food processor fitted with plastic
blade, blend cream cheese and cottage cheese together, making sure
there are no lumps in cream cheese. Add eggs, flour, shallot, salt,
pepper, spinach, and cheddar cheese. Mix well, taste for seasoning,
and reserve.

For carrot mixture:  Immerse carrots in pan of boiling water and boil
for 3 minutes.  Drain well.  Reserve. Using mixer or food processor
fitted with plastic blade, blend eggs, shallot, ginger, salt, and
pepper. Slowly add flour, Jack cheese, and cream and blend well.

To assemble, spoon half of spinach mixture into pan, then spoon the
carrot mixture carefully over spinach. Finish with rest of spinach.
You will have three distinct layers. Use a spatula to smooth top,
making sure it is perfectly even before placing in oven. Bake for 50
to 60 minutes or until puffed but not brown on top. Let cool at least
1 hour and turn out into rectangular platter.  Refrigerate for 2
hours. To serve, slice 1-inch pieces and overlap on serving platter.
Garnish with parsley or watercress leaves. Serve at room temperature.

Note:  This may be prepared 3 days in advance and kept in
refrigerator. This terrine may be served warm by slicing and heating
in a 350 degree F. oven for 15 minutes.

Shared and MM by Judi M. Phelps. jphelps@shell.portal.com or
jphelps@best.com

