Title: STANDARD PIE CRUST (MOM'S)
Categories: Pies
Yield: 1 Pie
2/3 c  Plus 2 Tbsp shortening
---OR--- 2/3 cup lard
2 c  All-purpose flour
1 ts Salt
4 tb To 5 Tbsp cold water
For Two-Crust 8-or-9" Pie:

Mix together flour and salt.  Cut shortening into flour/salt mixture
until particles are the size of small peas. Sprinkle in water, 1 Tbsp
at a time, mixing with a fork until all flour is moistened and pastry
almost cleans side of bowl (1 to 2 tsp additional water may be added
if dough is still too dry).

Divide pastry in half and shape each into flattened rounds on a
lightly floured cloth-covered board.  Roll one round of pastry 2
inches larger than your inverted pie plate using a floured rolling
pin. Fold pastry into quarters; place in 1/4 of the pie plate. Unfold
and ease into the plate, pressing firmly against bottom and sides.

Turn desired filling into pastry-lined pie plate. Trim overhanging
edge of pastry 1/2" from rim of plate. Roll the second round of
pastry using the same method for the first round. Place over filling
and unfold. Trim overhanging edge of pastry 1" from rim of plate.
Fold and roll top edge under lower edge, pressing on rim to seal --
flute either by hand or with a fork.  With a sharp knife, cut slits
in the top pie crust to allow steam to escape.  Cover edge of crust
with 2-to-3" wide strips of aluminum foil to prevent excessive
browning; remove foil during last 15 minutes of baking. Bake as
directed in pie recipe.

For a One-Crust 8-or-9" Pie:

Cut all ingredients by half, and use the same mixing and placement
method as used for the first round of dough in the two-crust pie
above. Trim overhanging dough to 1" from rim of plate. Fold and roll
pastry under, even with the plate; flute by hand or with a fork. Fill
and bake as directed in recipe.

For a 8-or-9" Baked Pie Shell:

Use the same instruction for ingredients, mixing, and placement for
1-crust pie.  Instead of filling crust, use a fork to thoroughly
prick the bottom and sides of pastry. Bake at 475 until lightly
brown, about 8-10 minutes; cool.  Fill as desired.

From 'Betty Crocker's Cookbook' - 1979.

