Title: STIR FRIED VELVET SPINACH WITH GLASS NOODLES
Categories: Chinese, Vegetables
Yield: 4 Servings
2 lb Spinach
2 oz Bean Threads (Glass Noodles)
3 tb Corn Or Peanut Oil
1 1/4 ts Kosher Salt
1/2 ts Sugar, (Or More If Desired)
2 ts Oriental Sesame Oil
In a large covered saucepan, bring 2 to 2-1/2 quarts of unsalted
water to a boil over high heat.  Discard any straggly spinach leaves
and white roots, then use scissors to cut stems and large leaves into
2-inch sections. Cut bulky stem clusters and any red root tips
intact. In large bowl, plunge cut spinach into several changes of
cold water, gently pumping up and down to remove grit.  Drain in
colander and shake off excess water. Plunge spinach into boiling
water. After 1 minute, drain spinach in colander, flush with cold
running water until chilled, then press lightly with palms of hands
to remove excess water.  Fluff spinach gently to loosen mass. In
medium-size bowl, cover bean threads with 3 to 4 cups of heated
water, without removing binding of rubber bands or strings. If bean
threads are from Taiwan or Thailand, use hot water; if they are from
the People's Republic of China, use boiling water. When pliable,
after about 10 seconds use scissors to cut through loop ends or
center of skein, thereby cutting bean threads into manageable 4- to
5-inch lengths. Cut rubber bands or strings and discard them, then
swish bean threads to disperse in water. After another 10 to 15
seconds, when bean threads are firm - like rubber bands to the touch
~ rinse briefly with cool water and drain again. skillet over high
heat until hot enough to evaporate a bead of water on contact. Add
oil, swirl to coat pan, then reduce heat to medium-high. When hot
enough to sizzle a bit of spinach on contact, add spinach and toss
briskly another minute. Add noodles and, using spatula, blend with
several quick stirs until heated through.  Add sesame oil, toss
briskly to combine, then remove from heat. Arrange several
rosy-tipped spinach stems on top, if desired, and serve at once.
Source: Barbara Tropp, Great Meals in Minutes - ISBN: 0-316-85065-9

