Title: STIR-FRIED RICE-STICK NOODLES
Categories: Oriental
Yield: 4 Servings
1/2 lb Thin rice-stick noodles
6    Dried Chinese blk. mushrooms
1    Boneless chicken breast
- cut 1/3-in thick
6 oz Strip Chinese barbecued pork
6 oz Medium shrimp
3 tb Peanut or corn oil
2 ts Finely chopped ginger
1/2 ts Salt
1 sm Onion; cut lengthwise into
- thin slices
1    Stalk celery; cut into
- diagonal thin slices
1/4 lb Small snow peas
- strings and stems removed
1/2    Green bell pepper; seeded
- and sliced thin
1/2 ts Sugar
2 tb Indian Madras curry powder
-(or to taste)
1 tb Light soy sauce
-(or more if needed)
1 tb Dark soy sauce
1/4 c  Chicken stock
2    Green onions
- finely shredded
IN 2 SEPARATE MEDIUM BOWLS, cover rice-stick noodles and mushrooms
with warm water for 20 minutes or until soft and pliable. Drain
noodles, shake off excess water; set aside. Drain mushrooms and
squeeze dry of excess water. Cut and discard stems at the base. Cut
caps into thin slices; set aside. Cut chicken breast into
1/3-inch-thick strips; set aside in a bowl. Slice the barbecued pork
into 1/4-inch-thick julienne strips; set aside. Shell and devein
shrimp; pat dry. Heat wok over medium heat until hot. Add 1 1/2
tablespoons of the oil and half the ginger and salt; gently saute
until fragrant, about 30 seconds. Increase to high heat and, when
hot, add the chicken, stir-fry for a few seconds, toss in shrimp and
stir-fry together until both the chicken and shrimp feel firm to the
touch. Mix in barbecued pork; remove and set aside. Add the remaining
oil, ginger and salt to the hot wok. When oil is hot, add the
mushrooms, onions, celery, snow peas, and bell pepper; stir-fry
together until tender and crisp for a total of 1 to 2 minutes. Mix in
sugar, curry powder, soy sauces, and half the chicken stock. Add the
rice-stick noodles. Use chopsticks or tongs to lift, shake and
separate strands of noodles until they are evenly coated with the
seasonings. Continue stir-frying for another minute until the noodles
are moist and begin to cling to each other. Add more chicken stock if
noodles seem too dry. Add reserved meat mixture and green onions;
toss together. Taste and adjust seasoning. Transfer to a serving
platter and serve hot. Serves 4 as a light lunch.

