Title: STIR FRIED TWO NOODLES (HOKKIEN MEE)
Categories: Meats, Fish, Pasta
Yield: 4 Servings
Stephen Ceideburg
1 c  Water
1 c  Basic Chicken Stock
1 tb Light or dark soy sauce
1/2 lb Pork shoulder, in one piece
1/4 lb Squid, cleaned and cut up
1/4 lb Raw shrimp in the shell
2 tb Oil or lard
3    Unpeeled cloves garlic,
-crushed
6 oz Thin egg noodles, boiled,
-drained, and tossed in a
1 tb Oil
4 oz Thick rice sticks (see
-Note), soaked and drained
2 c  Bean sprouts
1/4 c  Chinese chives or garlic
-chives, cut into 1-inch
-lengths
This is a favorite street snack among the Chinese in many Southeast
Asian cities. Hokkien is the local pronunciation of Fujian (Fukien)
province in southeast China, the origin of many Chinese emigrants
over the years. In a typical noodle-vendor's stand, the pork and
shellfish are cooked in a stock that simmers for hours, picking up
more flavor all the time. In this home version, the extra flavor
comes from reducing the stock after cooking the meats.

1. In a small saucepan combine water, stock, soy sauce, and pork.
Bring to a boil, reduce heat, and simmer until meat is tender. Remove
meat and set aside. Return stock to a boil. Add squid and cook 30
seconds. Remove and set aside. Cook shrimp 2 to 3 minutes. Drain and
set aside, reserving stock. Peel shrimp and devein if necessary. (For
additional flavor, add shrimp shells to stock and simmer 10 minutes
longer.)

2. Bring stock to a boil and reduce by half. Strain stock. (The
recipe may be prepared to this point several hours ahead.)

3. Slice pork into bite-sized pieces. In a wok or large skillet, heat
oil or lard and garlic to near smoking. Remove and discard garlic
cloves when they brown. Add noodles and rice sticks and stir-fry
until they are lightly browned in places. Add stock, cover, and cook
2 minutes. Remove cover, add pork, squid, shrimp, and bean sprouts,
and continue stirring and cooking until noodles have absorbed' most
of the liquid, about two minutes. @1'transfer to serving platter and
garnish with Chinese chives.

Serves 4 with other dishes.

Note: The authentic rice noodle for this dish is a thicker rice stick
called laifen in China and pancit luglug in the Phil- ippines, but
ordinary thin rice sticks may be used.

From the California Culinary Academy's "Southeast Asian Cooking", Jay
Harlow, published by the Chevron Chemical Company, 1987. ISBN
0-89721-098-0.

