Title: STIR-FRIED SHRIMP WITH GARLIC & GREEN BEANS
Categories: Seafood
Yield: 4 Servings
-JUDI M. PHELPS
1 lb Large shrimp with shells
1 c  ;water
1 1/2 ts Sugar
2 tb Low-sodium soy sauce
3    Cloves garlic; sliced
1/2 ts ;salt (optional)
2 tb Dry sherry
2 ts Sesame oil
3/4 lb Green beans; trimmed
2 tb Peanut oil
2 tb Garlic; minced
1 tb Fresh ginger; peeled and
-minced
1/2 ts Chili-garlic paste*
1/4 c  Scallions; minced, use both
-green and white parts
Juice of 1/2 lime
*Available in Asian markets.

Peel the shrimp and simmer the shells for 5 minutes or so in the water
while you work on the rest of the recipe. Marinate the shrimp in a
mixture of 1/2 teaspoon of the sugar, 1 tablespoon soy sauce, the
sliced garlic, salt, sherry, and 1 teaspoon of the sesame oil while
you assemble the other ingredients. Drain the shrimp shells,
reserving 3/4 cup of the stock.

If the green beans are tough, parboil them for 1 minute or so, then
plunge them into ice water.  If they are large, cut them into pieces.
When you are ready to cook, preheat a wok or 12-inch skillet over
medium-high heat for 3 minutes.  Add 1 tablespoon of the peanut oil
and raise the heat to medium high. When it begins to smoke, add the
minced garlic and, immediately thereafter, the shrimp and its
marinade. Cook the shrimp about 1 minute per side.  Spoon it out of
the wok or skillet.

Put the remaining peanut oil in the wok, still over high heat, and
when it smokes, add the ginger, followed immediately by the green
beans. Cook, stirring occasionally, until they are lightly browned, 3
to 5 minutes, then add the shrimp stock and let it bubble away for 1
or 2 minutes. Return the shrimp to the wok and stir; add the
chili-garlic paste, the scallions, and the remaining sugar and soy
sauce. Stir and cook for 1 minute. Turn off the heat, drizzle with
the lime juice and the remaining sesame oil, and serve. Serves 4
people. Adapted recipe from: Fish, the Complete Guide to Buying and
Serving, by Mark Bittman.

Shared and MM by Judi M. Phelps. jphelps@slip.net or jphelps@best.com

