Title: STRAWBERRY WHITE CHOCOLATE MOUSSE TART
Categories: Chocolate, Strawberry
Yield: 8 Servings
Pastry:
1 3/4 c  Unbleached Flour
1/4 c  Firmly Packed Light Brown
Sugar
2 1/2 ts Orange Peel -- grated
1/8 ts Salt
1 3/4    Sticks Unsalted Butter --
Chilled and cut in p
1 1/2 tb Fresh Orange Juice
1    Egg Yolk
1 ts Vanilla Extract
2 oz Imported White Chocolate
Mousse:
6 oz Imported White Chocolate
1/4 c  Heavy Cream
1 lg Egg White -- at room
Temperature
1 tb Sugar
1/2 c  Whipping Cream -- whipped to
Stiff
Peaks
2 tb Grand Marnier
1 lg Strawberries -- with stems
25 lg Strawberries -- hulled
1/2 c  Strawberry Jam Or
Preserves*
For pastry: Mix first 4 ingredients in a large bowl. Add butter and
cut into mixture until it resembles fine meal. Blend orange juice
with egg yolk and vanillla. Add enough juice mixture to dry
imgredients to form ball that comes together.

Gather dough into a ball and flatten into roughly a 12 inch round.
Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 375 degrees. Roll
dough out between sheets of plastic wrap to 1/8 inch thickness. Trim
to an 11 inch circle (use tart pan as guide). Remove plastic wrap
from top and invert into a 10 inch round springform pan with
removable bottom. Remove plastic wrap and press into bottom and up
sides of pan...  crimp top edges. Freeze for 15 minutes. Line tart
shell with aluminum foil and weight with pie weights or beans. Bake
until sides are set - about 10 minutes. REmove foil and weights. Bake
crust until golden brown - about 16-20 minutes. Sprinkle two ounces
of white chocola te over hot crust. Let stand for about 1 minute.
Using the back of a spoon, spread chocolate over bottom and up sides.
Transfer to rack to cool.

For mousse: Melt white chocolate with 1/4 C heavy cream in a small
heavy saucepan over very low heat, stirring constantly. Pour into
bowl. Let stand until just cool. Beat egg white in a small bowl until
soft peaks form. Gradually add sugar and beat until stiff but not
dry. Fold whipped cream, 1 tbsp. liqueuer, and egg white into
chocolate mixture. Spoon mousse into prepared pan, spreading evenly.
Refrigerate until mousse is set (2 hours or overnight (can be made
ahead and frozen at this point)).

To assemble: Fan all strawberries by making several legthwise cuts in
each, starting 1/4 inch from base and extending through the tip. Fan
with fingertips. Bring jam and remaining 1 tbsp. liqueuer to a boil
in a heavy small saucepan, stirring constantly. Transfer to processor
and puree. Brush thin layer of jam over mouse. Place 2 fanned
strawberries with stems on opposing sides of mousse. Arrange smaller
fanned strawberries atop artistically.

:
Recipe By

