Title: STRAITS CHINESE VEGETABLES IN TANGY PEANUT SA
Categories: Chinese, Vegetables
Yield: 8 Servings
1 c  Of roasted peanuts
1    Anchovy fillet, mashed to a
-paste
1 ts Of cayenne pepper
3 tb Of molasses
1/2 c  Freshly squeezed lime juice
1 ts Salt
1 tb Granulated sugar
1/2 c  Of water
The term "Straits Chinese" refers to the Chinese descendants in
Penang of the original Chinese settlers, many of whom took Malay
wives. Although the origins and traditions of the food are Chinese,
the styles of cooking and many of the ingredients are definitely
Malaysian. This salad, which is filling, flavorful, and very
satisfying, contains no meat and is, therefore, eminently suited to
vegetarian diets, being well balanced nutritionally.

SAUCE Crush the peanuts, using either a rolling pin or a large mortar
and pestle. Place the peanuts, together with the rest of the
ingredients,in a food processor or blender and process to a smooth
sauce. Set aside.

VEGETABLES 1 rectangle of bean curd (tofu), pressed in a colander
until firm and cut into 1 inch cubes 2 medium potatoes, scrubbed but
not peeled 6 eggs 8 string beans, ends removed, cut on a diagonal
into 2 inch lengths 1 cup finely shredded whit cabbage 2 3 large
zucchini, ends removed, cut into 1 inch thick disks 2 cups of tightly
packed watercress, washed, drained, and lower stems removed 1 cup
vegetable oil

While the bean curd is pressing, set the potatoes on to boil. In
another saucepan, hard cook the eggs. When the eggs are
ready,immediately plunge them into iced water. Empty the egg saucepan
and refill it with cold water. Bring to a boil over high heat. Put
the string beans in a small sieve or strainer and immerse them in the
boiling water for 3 minutes. Remove and set them aside. Refill the
sieve with the cabbage and blanch it for 2 minutes. Blanch the
zucchini for 3 minutes. Finally, immerse the watercress for 1
minutes. Set all the vegetables aside to cool. Shell the eggs and cut
them in half. Drain the potatoes and set them aside to cool. Pour the
vegetable oil into a small saucepan and set it over high heat. Remove
the rectangle of bean curd from its makeshift press, mop it with
paper towels to remove any residual moisture, and cut it into 1 inch
cubes. When the oil is up to deep frying temperature (375F) fry the
bean curd until the exterior of the cubes forms a crisp, golden brown
skin. Drain and set it aside on paper towels.  Peel the potatoes and
slice them into disks,1/4 inch thick. On a large platter, arrange the
ingredients in separate mounds. Pour the sauce over and serve. Makes
8 servings **Every part of this dish can be made in advance. It can
be served warm, at room temperature, or cold.

Origin:  Cookbook Digest, Nov/Dec 1991 Shared by: Sharon Stevens.

