Title: STUFFED CROWN ROAST OF PORK - COUNTRY LIVING
Categories: Holidays, Main dish, Pork
Yield: 16 Servings
1    16-rib crown roast of pork
-(about 8 lb)
2 tb Olive oil
1/2 c  Chopped celery
1/2 c  Chopped onion
1/2 c  Chopped sweet red pepper
1/2 c  Chopped sweet green pepper
1/2 ts Dried marjoram leaves
1/4 ts Dried thyme leaves
1/4 ts Cracked black pepper
1/4 ts Salt
1 1/4 c  Water
5 c  Firm white bread cubes
1/4 c  Chopped fresh parsley leaves
Paper booties (directions
-follow) or kumquats, to
-cover rib ends (opt.)
NOTE: You may ask your butcher to shape and tie a crown roast for you
or select two center pork loins at your supermarket and have the
service department saw between the ribs, then follow the above
directions.

1. Heat oven to 325'F. Place roast, bone ends up, on wire rack in
shallow roasting pan. Cover bone tips with pieces of aluminum foil.
Roast pork 2 hours.

2. Meanwhile, in large skillet, heat oil. Add celery, onion, and
peppers; saute vegetables until lightly browned. Remove from heat and
add marjoram, pepper, thyme, salt, and water. Stir to loosen
browned-on bits.

3. In large bowl, combine bread cubes, parsley, and mixture from
skillet. Toss until well mixed and all bread has been moistened.
Cover, and set aside.

4. When pork has roasted 2 hours, remove from oven. Spoon bread
mixture into center of crown. With serving spoon, drizzle some of pan
drippings over stuffing. Return to oven and bake 30 to 45 minutes
more or until meat thermometer inserted into thickest part of roast
registers 155'F. Remove from oven and. allow pork to stand 5 to 10
minutes until meat temperature rises to 160'F. Allow pork to rest 10
to 15 minutes before carving. Transfer to serving plate; remove foil
from bones. Decorate rib bones with paper booties or kumquats, if
desired.

5. To carve the roast, use a sharp carving knife and a two-pronged
carving fork. Slice down between the ribs, removing one chop at a
time. Spoon stuffing onto each serving.

Paper Booties: Cut desired number of 4-inch squares from writing or
wrapping paper. One at a time, fold squares in half gently without
creasing paper at fold. Make cuts 1/8 inch apart through fold to
within 1/4 inch of cut edges. To attach to rib bones, carefully wrap
uncut ends of paper strips around bones and secure with tape.

Country Living Holidays/1994 Scanned & edited by Di Pahl & <gg>

