Title: STUFFED VENISON PINWHELLS
Categories: Meats, Wild game
Yield: 8 Servings
2    Whole venison backstraps,
Rolled out 1/4 in. thick
1 qt Whole milk
2 ts Wild game seasoning
1 lb Velveeta cheese
1 cn Rotel tomatoes with diced
Chiles
2 lb Thinly sliced lean bacon
1/2 c  Thinly sliced green onions
8    Cloves garlic, finely mince
First, prepare the backstrap fillet. It's an extremely tender tubelike
piece of meat about 12 inches long and 2 to 3 inches in diameter. And
because of its shape, it can be cut around the perimeter, 1/4 inch
thick, and rolled out flat. To do this, you need a very sharp knife.
Start by laying out the fillet perpendicular to your body and making
a shallow slice about 1/4 inch deep in the meat. Then, as if slicing
through and unrolling paper towels from a roll, begin working around
the outside perimeter of the fillet until the backstrap comes out
looking like a round steak. It takes a little practice to do ... but
you can do it! When the meat is ready, place both pieces into a glass
or plastic container and cover them with whole milk. You want to
marinate the venison for at least 6 hours, but preferably overnight.
The milk tenderizes the deer and helps to remove any unwanted gamey
flavor. After the marination process, remove the meat from the milk
(you can discard the milk), and pat the venison dry with several
paper towels. Then liberally sprinkle both sides with wild game
seasoning and rub it briskly into the meat. At this point, preheat
your oven to 400 degrees. Then, in your food processor, mix together
the Velveeta cheese and the Rotel tomatoes until smooth and creamy.
When you're ready to make the pinwheels, spread a thin layer of the
cheese mixture evenly over one side of the deer. Then place a layer
of bacon strips - side by side - on top of the cheese. Finish up the
preparation by lightly sprinkling on a little sliced green onions and
a little minced garlic. Now tightly roll up the flattened fillets and
set them aside momentarily. Then on the same work surface, lay out
another 8 to 10 strips of bacon side by side and put one of the
rolled backstraps on top of them. Now wrap the bacon strips around
the venison and pin them in place with toothpicks. When you are
finished, the backstrap should be completely encased in bacon strips.
Repeat with the other backstrap. All that's left is to take a sharp
knife, slice the rolled venison into 2 inch thick pinwheels, position
them on a shallow cookie sheet, and bake them - uncovered - in the
oven for about 40 to 45 minutes. You'll notice that a light sauce
will form in the bottom of the cookie sheet; you can use this to
baste the pinwheels as they cook. The one thing you don't want to do
is overcook the venison - it will come out dry and chewy instead of
juicy and tender if you do! Chef's Note: If you don't have wild game
seasoning on hand, you can lightly sprinkle the venison with salt,
black pepper, onion powder, garlic powder, and sweet basil as a
substitute. Unfortunately, most spice manufacturers don't make a
premixed wild game seasoning, but my company does. If you'd like me
to send you some, simply call 1-800-742-4231

