Title: STUFFED CHICKEN PROVENCAL-MARTHA STEWART LIVI
Categories: Chicken, Main dish, Soup/stews
Yield: 2 Servings
1    3-lb chicken, preferably
-free-range or kosher
Salt & freshly ground pepper
1 tb Olive oil, plus more for
-rubbing chicken
2 sm Cloves garlic, peeled and
-chopped
2    Shallots, minced
1 lg Onion, peeled and chopped
1 c  Chopped pitted Gaeta or oil-
-cured black olives
Zest of 1 lemon
1/4 c  Dry white wine
1/2 c  Chopped flat-leaf parsley
1 tb Chopped fresh rosemary
-(if unavailable, omit; do
-not substitute dried)
1 tb Chopped fresh tarragon OR
1 ts Dried tarragon
1/4 c  Bread crumbs, made from a
-few slices of fresh white
-bread
1. Using poultry shears, split chicken down the center of the
backbone. With a knife, crack the breastbone so it will lie flat. Lay
chicken on a work surface skin side up, legs pointing away from you.

2. Loosen skin by working your hand under the end facing you, working
down to and including the drumsticks, being careful not to tear the
skin. Leave skin attached at bottom of breast. Season chicken with=7F
salt and pepper, rub skin with a little olive oil, and refrigerate
until needed.

3. Place oil and garlic in a large saute pan. Cook over low heat for 1
minute. Add shallots and o@on and cook over medium heat, stirring
occasionally, until soft and transparent, about 20 minutes. Add
olives and lemon zest, and cook 1 to 2 minutes more. Add wine and
turn up heat. Cook until just a little liquid remains, about 2
minutes. Stir in herbs and bread crumbs, season with pepper, and set
aside to cool.

4. Distribute stuffing evenly beneath chicken skin, starting at legs
and working back toward breast. With clean hands, smooth the surface.
Cut a small slit in the web of skin between each thigh and bottom of
breast; tuck in ends of drumsticks. (Bird can be prepared a day ahead
to this point.)

5. Heat oven to 375'. Reform the bird into its original shape and
wrap a string around it underneath the drumsticks; pull string tight
to plump bird up, and tie a knot. Tuck wings underneath and place
bird in a roasting pan. Roast, basting often, for 1 to 1 1/4 hours.
Remove from oven and let chicken rest for 10 minutes, To carve, cut
breasts from the bones in one piece, then slice crosswise with a
serrated knife.

Martha Stewart Living/Feb. & March/94 Scanned & fixed by Di and Gary

