Title: SUB-JEE
Categories: Indian
Yield: 6 Servings
Stephen Ceideburg
2 tb Olive oil
1/4 lb Fresh mushrooms, sliced
1 sm Head cauliflower, cut into
-florets
4 md Red or white potatoes
1 c  Chopped yellow onion
1 c  Sliced celery
1    Finely minced jalapeno
-pepper (see note)
1 tb Finely minced fresh cilantro
2 ts Ground cumin
2 ts Curry powder
1    Or 2 cloves garlic, minced
1/2    To 1 teaspoon salt
1/4    To 1/2 teaspoon ground
-coriander
1/4 ts Cayenne pepper
1 ds Ground cinnamon
3 c  Canned and/or homemade
-chicken broth
6    To 8 flour tortillas
2 c  Shredded Monterey jack
-cheese, optional
3    Tomatoes, diced
1 c  Sour cream
Okey dokey. I'll make amends with this Indian "peasant" dish... Be
warned, though. This is from an article about "ugly" food--stuff that
looks wretched but tastes great.

Don't take the list of ingredients and amounts too seriously,
although the potatoes and cauliflower are essential. But the main
idea with Sub-Jee is to use what vegetables you have or truly love.
And play with the seasonings a bit to strike a balance between fire
and flavor.

In a large heavy pot, heat the oil over medium-high heat. Add
mushrooms and saute until they release their juices and begin to
brown. Stir in cauliflower, potatoes, onion, celery, jalapeno,
cilantro, cumin, curry, garlic, salt, coriander, cayenne, cinnamon
and broth.

Cover the pot and braise the mixture over medium heat for about 20 to
30 minutes, or until the vegetables are very tender.

To serve, heat the flour tortillas one at a time in a dry skillet
until they are soft and pliable, turning once. Sprinkle with a little
of the grated cheese and keep the tortilla in the pan until the
cheese begins to melt. Have each diner spoon some of the vegetable
mixture down the center of a tortilla, then top with diced fresh
tomatoes and a dollop of sour cream. To eat, roll the tortilla around
the filling, burrito fashion. Wonderful!

Note: When preparing fresh chilies, wear rubber gloves for protection
against oils that later can cause burning sensation on skin.

Jan Roberts-Dominguez writing in the Oregonian's FOODday, 1/12/93.

Posted by Stephen Ceideburg

