Title: SUGAR SYRUP
Categories: Alcohol, Beverages, Info/tips
Yield: 1 Cup
1 c  White granulated sugar
1/2 c  Water
Sugar syrup is used to make homemade liqueurs. To make, the ratio is
1 part sugar to 2 parts water. Boil together for about 5 minutes at a
full boil and be sure the sugar is dissolved. The syrup >>MUST<< be
cool BEFORE adding the alcohol mixture as heat evaporates the
alcohol. PROPORTIONS: One cup syrup plus three cups 80 proof vodka
equals 60 proof liqueur. Two cups syrup plus three cups 80 proof
vodka equals 48 proof liqueur. If a 100 proof vodka is used, increase
the sugar syrup by 1/8 cup. For a "creme de" liqueur, double the
amount of syrup called for in the recipe. The greater the amount
added, the lower the alcoholic content. Sugar syrup should be
adjusted to personal preference and to the outcome of the liqueur's
taste since variation can occur. See recipes for the following
Liqueurs: Banana, Blueberry, Cherry, Cranberry, Orange, Papaya, Pear,
Peach, Apricot, Raspberry, Plum, Pineapple, Chocolate, Hazlenut,
Irish Cream, Coconut, Coffee, Orange and Coffee Bean Cordial, Almond,
Almond Tasty, Tea, Vanilla Cream, Vanilla Pecan, Ginger, Licorice,
Cimmamon, Peppermint, Spicy Herbal. NOTE: Health food stores will
have the best selection for many of the ingredients. Frozen, canned
or dry fruits may be used BUT flavors will often not be as full.
Herbs, nuts, and extracts may be added and/or substituted in recipes
creating an endless variety of combinations. Try a few basic recipes
before experimenting to develop a feel for proportions. Liqueurs
should mature as indicated in the recipe before drinking. Storing
tends to round out the taste and flavor. Be sure to keep a record of
ingredients, amounts, time aged, etc. for troubleshooting and to
assure you can repeat the recipe. Batches may vary for a variety of
reasons, such as the freshness of fruit, aging time, etc. TIPS/INFO:
~ Herb and spice flavorings are very potent so begin with a small
amount -
1/4    teaspoon to 2 teaspoons ~ Nuts and herbs MUST be crushed or
broken to release full flavor - Be sure to scrape off all the white
rind on orange or lemon peels or a
bitter taste will result ~ Blot peels on paper towels to dry off
oils and water ~ Ripeness of fruit can affect the final outcome of
taste - If too weak, add more flavoring and resteep or try 1/4
teaspoon extract - To sweeten, the ratio is approximately 1 ounce to
4 ounces - If sour or bitter, add more sugar syrup - If too sweet,
add a bit of lemom and resteep for a week - To thicken, add glycerine
(1 or 2 teaspoons per quart) which is
available at most drugstores and winemaking shops ~ Strain and then
filter liqueur once it has aged. To strain, first use a
regular strainer and then restrain the fruits and nuts. Squeeze out
as
much juice as possible. FINALLY, filter the strained juice to
achieve a
clean finsihed product. Place a coffee filter or a paper filter in a
funnel and pour juice slowly, stirring to prevent clogging. Replace
filter as required and repeat process if any residue is apparent.

