Title: SUKIYAKI 1
Categories: Ethnic, Main dish, Beef
Yield: 1 Servings
Eye of round.
2 oz Suet (beef kidney fat; ask
1    Scallions, trimmen  (negi)
2    Med Onions, bermuda, peeled
1    Oz package dried black mush
1/4 lb Fresh mushrooms, sliced
1    Fresh spinach (horenso)
1/4 lb Fresh snow peas, blanched
8 oz Fresh or canned devil's ton
Noodles (shirataki)  or
2    Oz bundles dried bean threa
Transparent noodles (harusa
1    Container fresh bean curd (
4    Raw eggs
***  cooking sauce (warashit
2 c  Canned or homemade beef sto
1 c  Japanese soy sauce
1/4 c  To 1/2 cup granulated sugar
Sauce should be sweet
1/4 c  Japanese rice wine (sake)
PREPARATION:   1.  With a sharp cleaver or chief's knife, slice meat
as thinnly as possible. Cover and refrigerate until serving time. 2.
Cut scallions diagonally in 1 and 1/2 nch lengths 3. Cut onions in
half lengthwise, then slice them thinly. 4. Cover dried mushrooms
with hot tap water to re-hydrate. soak at least 30 minutes -
preferably for several hours.
Cut tough stems off and discard; leave mushrooms whole or cut in
half, quarter if large. 5. Trim stems of fresh mushrooms and wipe
clean with damp paper towels. Slice 6. Wash spinach leaves carefully
and trim stems. 7. Blanch snow peas. 8. Open and drain can or package
of devil's noodles (if your using the dried bean threads, cover them
with very hot tap water and soak for 30 minutes or until plumped up.)
If noodles are bound by rubber bands, don't remove them until noodles
soak. Snip into shorter lengths, then cut bands off. 9. Drain and
rinse tofu in cool water, then cube. 10. Combine sauce ingrdients in
a saucepan and heat just to dissolve sugar. Cool and refrigerate
until needed. 11. Arrange meat, suet, and remaining ingredients
except eggs and sauce in attractive piles on the platter. Platter can
be arranged ahead and tightly covered and refrigerated, except for
the onions, which should be cut at the last minute. Meat should be
kept separate until serving time because escaping meat juices can
stain other foods. 12.  Break raw eggs into small bowls at serving
time. This is a two part recipe - check for Sukiyaki 2

