Title: SUKUMA WIKI (COLLARD GREENS IN LEMON SAUCE)
Categories: Other sauce
Yield: 4 Servings
2 lb Collard greens
1 3/4 c  Water
2 tb Vegetable oil
1 md Onion -- chopped
2 md Plum tomatoes -- peel, seed,
Chop
1    Serrano chile -- seeded and
Minced
2 1/2 tb Fresh lemon juice
1 tb All-purpose flour
1/2 ts Salt
In a large sink of lukewarm, agitate the collard greens well to
remove any hidden grit.  Carefully lift the greens out of the water
and transfer them to a colander, leaving the grit on the bottom of
the sink. Repeat the

procedure in a sink of fresh water.  Remove and discard the woody
stems. Stack the collard leaves a few at a time, and cut them
crosswise into 1/2-inch wide strips.

Bring 1 cup of the water to a boil in a large skillet. Add the collard
greens, cover, and cook over medium heat, stirring often, until the
greens are barely tender, about 10 minutes. Drain the greens well.

Heat the oil in a large skillet.  Add the onion and chile pepper and
cook over medium heat, stirring often, until softened, about 5
minutes. Add the tomatoes and cook for 2 minutes.  Stir in the
drained greens.

In a medium bowl, whisk the remaining 3/4 cup water with the lemon
juice, flour and salt until smooth. Stir this into the greens, reduce
the heat to low, and simmer, stirring often, until the sauce has
thickened and the flour flavor has cooked away, about 3 minutes.
Serve immediately.

"There are many ways of making this very simple dish," says Maggie
Marenga. "You can use just onions or just tomatoes. You can use heavy
cream or half-and-half instead of the water in the lemon sauce. It's
great with beef or chicken stew.  Some people even put beef or
chicken in their Sukuma Wiki.  In Kenya, it is eaten on an almost
daily basis."

>From KWANZAA: An African-American Celebration of Culture and Cooking
by Eric V. Copage.

Uploaded by Nan Blanchard; 73540,700

mrarchway@aol.com

: KWANZAA: An African-American Celebration of Culture
Recipe By
and Cook

From: Emory!rahul.Net!watson@sunshine.Edate: Fri, 25 Mar 1994 07:48:43
~0800 (

