Title: SUPER-BOWL CHILI
Categories: Entrees
Yield: 6 Servings
2 lb Steak, cheap
-(not too fatty)
1 lb Tomatoes, stewed
1 lb Tomatoes, whole
1/2 lb Tomato sauce
1 c  Water (or beer)
1/4 c  Chili seasoning
-(*see note below)
1 lg Red onion,
-chopped coarse
2    Garlic cloves,
-minced or crushed
Jalapeno peppers
-(fresh), seeded and
-minced (2-6)
Arbole or serrano
-peppers (dried),
-whole (2-6)
3    Anaheim or California
-(large) chilis,
-chopped coarse
1    Bell pepper, red or
-green (optional)
2 tb Brown sugar
1 ts Salt
2 ts Black pepper
4 tb Masa flour
2 c  Pinto beans, cooked
Trim the meat of all visible fat.  If there is a large strip of fat
on one side of the meat, save it whole. Cut meat into 1/4-inch cubes
and brown it in a frying pan.

In a large chili pot, place tomatoes, tomato sauce and water or beer.
Bring to a slow boil.  Add the meat, chili seasoning, onion, garlic,
peppers, sugar, salt and pepper. If you are using the optional bell
pepper, cut it into 1-inch strips and add them now. If you have that
large piece of steak fat, add it now; if not, add about 1 T of
cooking oil. Cover and reduce heat, simmer at least one hour (two to
three is better) stirring occasionally. At the end of the simmering
remove and discard the piece of steak fat.

NOTES:

*  A hearty (and hot) Texas-style chili -- This is a chili
traditional in our Super-Bowl Sunday festivities. It has won several
"no holds barred" (non ICS) chili cookoffs where there are no
specific rules. It is the result of countless changes and adjustments
of a small group of chili aficionados (aka chiliheads). Note: there
is a range of peppers specified, you may adjust the "temperature" of
the resultant chili, mild if you use the low end, or nuclear if you
use the high end (we do!). Yield: serves 6-8.

*  Mix the masa flour with about 1/4 cup water and add to chili pot
along with the pinto beans (or any kind you prefer). Simmer an
additional 30 minutes. Serve. If you have made the nuclear version,
make sure there is plenty of beer on hand.

*  For chili seasoning, we make up batches consisting of 8 parts chili
powder, 2 parts ground cumin, and 1 part crushed (not ground) cayenne
peppers.

: Difficulty:  easy to moderate.
: Time:  30 minutes preparation, 1 1/2 to 3 hours cooking.
: Precision:  approximate measurement OK.

When it is not necessary to make a decision,
it is necessary to not make a decision.
Pete Bellas
: Citicorp TTI
: Santa Monica, CA
Lord Faukland (Island) : Path: ...!{randvax | trwrb |
:
philabs | vortex}!ttidca!ttidcb!bellas

: Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust

