Title: SWEET-POTATO TARTLETS
Categories: Desserts, May 1996 is
Yield: 12 Servings
*For the Filling*
2 sm Sweet potatoes
1 lg Egg -- lightly beaten
1/4 c  Heavy cream
2 tb Unsulfured molasses
1 ts Pure vanilla extract
1/4 c  Light brown sugar -- packed
1/8 ts Salt
1/4 ts Ground ginger
1/4 ts Ground cinnamon
1 pn Ground cloves
1 pn Allspice
*For the Praline Topping and
Crust*
1 1/4 c  Pecans
1 c  Granulated sugar
10 tb Unsalted butter -- cut into
sm Piece
3/4 c  Light brown sugar
1 1/4 c  All-purpose flour
2 tb All-purpose flour
1/2 ts Salt
1/4 ts Cinnamon
To make the filling: Heat oven to 400 degrees. Prick sweet potatoes.
Place on a baking sheet and bake for 40 minutes or until soft. When
cool enough to handle, peel and mash. Transfer mashed potatoes to an
electric mixer; beat on low speed for 1 minute. Whisk together egg,
cream, molasses and vanilla. Add to potatoes; mix on low speed, 1 to
2 minutes. Mix in remaining filling ingredients. Let stand until
crusts are ready. To make the topping and crust: Begin by making
pecan praline. Place 1/2 cup pecans on a large parchemnt-lined baking
sheet. In a small saucepan, combine granulated sugar and 2
tablespoons water. Cook over low heat until sugar dissolves. Cover
and bring to a boil. Leave cover on until condensation washes down
inside of pan. Uncover, adjust heat to medium, and cook, swirling pan
occassionally, until sugar turns amber. Pour caramel over pecans; let
cool about 1 hour. Chop praline into small pieces. Heat oven to 350
degrees. On a rimmed baking sheet, toast remaining 3/4 cup pecans for
about 7 minutes, turning once. Let cool completely. Transfer to a
food processor and processto a fine powder; add butter, brown sugar,
flour, salt and cinnamon. Pulse until well combined. Set aside 1/2
cup of the mixture to use for topping. Divide the rest among 3-inch
tart tins. press into tins. Refrigerate on a baking sheet for 30
minutes. Poke crusts with a fork, and bake for 5 minutes. Place tart
tins on a work surface and spoon sweet-potato filling into each.
Crumble reserved topping into small pieces and mix in half the
chopped pecan praline. Sprinkle this topping over the sweet-potato
filling, avoiding edges of the crust. Place tarts on a baking sheet,
transfer to oven, and bake for 25 to 35 minutes, until tarts are
puffed and golden brown. Transfer to a wire rack to cool 15 to 20
minutes. Unmold and let cool to room teperature. Sprinkle the
remaining pecan praline over tarts and serve.

: Martha Stewart Living, May 1996
Recipe By

From: Debbie Barry - Innermail   Emc.Ve

