Title: SWISS CHARD EMPANADAS
Categories:
Yield: 14 Servings
2 bn Swiss chard -- cut in small
Pieces
Stems cut in 1"dice
1 lg White onions -- diced
3/4 c  Cotija cheese (or aged
Romano or Parmesan --
Grated
1/4 c  Melting cheese such as Jack,
Or Asadero -- grated
1    Egg -- beaten
1/2 ts Salt or to taste
1/2 ts Black pepper -- freshly
Ground
Squeeze of lime
Dough
2 c  Flour
1/2 ts Salt
1/2 c  Lard -- chilled
1 1/2 tb Unsalted butter -- chilled
1/3 c  Ice water
To make dough: In a large bowl combine flour, salt, lard, and butter.
Mix lightly with your fingers until the dough forms pea-sized pieces.
Stir in iced water and lightly knead until dough forms a ball. Wrap
in plastic wrap and refrigerate for 1-2 hours or overnight.

To make filling: Heat olive oil in a frying pan and add diced onion,
salt and pepper. Cook over moderate heat until onions are soft and
begin to turn lightly golden. Add chard stems and cook a minute or
two then add the chard leaves and cook until tender, about 3-4
minutes. Remove from heat and cool. Mix cooled cooked chard with
grated cheeses and taste, adjust seasoning.:

To assemble empanadas: On a lightly floured board, roll the dough out
to 1/8 inch thickness and cut 6 circles about 5 inches each or 12
smaller circles. Place filling onto half of circle of dough leaving a
border and wet the edges of the dough with the egg wash, then fold
the dough over to enclose the filling. Seal the edges by pressing the
top to the bottom with the tines of a fork. Chill at least 30 minutes
before baking.

Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Place empanadas on a baking sheet and
brush tops with egg wash and sprinkle with freshly cracked pepper.
With a sharp knife, cut small slits in the top of each empanada to
allow steam to escape. Bake 30 minutes or until dough is golden.
Transfer to a cooling rack to cool slightly. Serve warm or at room
temperature.

Yield: 12-4 inch Empanadas

: Too Hot Tamale/tpogue@idsonline.com
Recipe By

Date: Fri, 11 Oct 1996 21:49:33
From: Mastercook Mac
~465800

