Title: SZECHUAN STYLE CABBAGE RELISH
Categories: Relishes, Vegetables, Appetizers, Vegetarian, Chinese
Yield: 1 Servings
1 md Green cabbage
MMMMM--------------------------MARINADE-------------------------------
8 c  Water
2 tb Szechuan peppercorns
3 tb Salt
2 tb -Strong spirits, or up to:
3 tb Strong spirits
-- (gin, tequilla, or
-- kaoliang wine)
1 c  Icicle radish, julienned
-- (Optional)
1/2 c  Carrot, julienned (optional)
2 sl -Gingerroot, or up to:
5 sl Gingerroot
1 sm -Fresh Chile, or up to:
3 sm Fresh Chiles (optional)
This relish is certainly the most ubiquitous and popular in all China.
There is even a special earthenware pickling jar for it. Encircling
the mouth of the jar is a shallow, water-filled trough, into which
the lid fits like an upturned bowl, affording an airtigh seal. Many a
restaurant, no matter how small, keeps an ongoing batch in the works.
It is especially favored as an appetizer or as an accompaniment to
such specialties as boiled pot-stickers or noodles.

Szechuan is a Western province of China where red pepper frequently
enlivens the food.  The traditional hot, spicy flavor of this relish
varies with individual taste; use as much or as little gingerroot
and/or hot peppers as you like to do the job.  Chiles can be chopped
for a really hot effect; or for mere warmth, leave them whole with a
slit down one side. If you omit the chiles and gingerroot altogether,
the resuld will be a pleasant pickle flavor with the natural
sweetness of the crisp vegetables in the forefront.

Green cabbage (not Chinese cabbage) is the principle ingredient, but
other vegetables may be added for color (carrot) and variety (icicle
radish). One batch requires several days' steeping. The brine should
be reused, for each time the vegetables contribute their flavor, and
it gets better and better.

DIRECTIONS: =========== Discard limp outer leaves of cabbage. It is
not necessary to separate leaves individually. Break the head into
fairly large yet bite-sized pieces. Pat dry and let excess moisture
evaporate.

To make marinade: Brin to a boil the water, peppercorns, and salt.
Strain out the peppercorns as you pour the liquid into a plastic
container (with air-tight lid), ceramic bowl, or crock.  Let cool to
room temperature.

When the brine has cooled, add the alcohol, then cabbage and
additional vegetables.  Weigh these down with a clean, heavy ceramic
object (I simply use a plate) or stone so that they remain submerged
in the brine. Cover tightly with plastic wrap or air-tight lid. Store
in the refrigerator for at least three days before uncovering. The
first one or two batches may seem a bit salty and raw-tasting; after
that a mellow, richly mature character develops.  It can store
indefinitely if kept cold, airtight, and clean. Always use clean, dry
utensils when removing the vegetables. You can remove as much as you
want at a time and add new vegetables before the previous batch is
used up.

To replenish the brine after several batches, add a little alcohol
and a salt solution (1/2 teaspoon salt boiled with 1/2 cup water).
The original marinade can be reboiled with additional water and salt,
but this results in some flavor loss.

Variation: Shred the marinated cabbage or chop it coarsely, to yield
about 5 cups, loosely packed.  Toss with 1 tablespoon soy sauce,
2-1/2 teaspoons sugar, 1 tablespoon vinegar (cider or Chinese dark),
and 1-1/2 teaspoons sesame oil.  Serve at room temperature or chilled.

* Source: The Fragrant Vegetable, by Martin Stidham * Typos by: Karen
Mintzias

