Title: TAMAL AZTECA
Categories: Casseroles, Vegetables, Cheese, Tex-mex
Yield: 4 Servings
MMMMM------------------------AZTECA SAUCE-----------------------------
1 cn (28 oz) plum tomatoes,
- undrained
1 cn (4 oz) roasted green chilis,
-chopped, undrained
1/2 tb Canola or corn oil
1 c  (6 oz) white onion, finely
- chopped
1    Garlic clove, minced
1 c  Defatted chicken stock
1/2 ts Salt
1/4 c  Chopped cilantro
MMMMM-----------------------TAMAL CONTENTS----------------------------
8    Corn tortillas
1 c  Zucchini, diced
2 pk (10 0z) frozen chopt spinach
- thawed, thoroughly drained
8 oz Monterey Jack Cheese, grated
1 pk (10 oz) frozen corn, thawed
1/4 c  Chopped cilantro
4 c  Azteca Sauce
AZTECA SAUCE: To make sauce, combine tomatoes and chilies in a
blender and make a coarse puree. Heat the oil in a skillet over
medium heat. Add onion and cook until lightly browned. Increase heat
to medium-high, add garlic and cook 1 minute. Add tomato and chili
mixture and cook, stirring frequently, until reduced and thickened,
about 8 minutes. Add stock, reduce heat to low and simmer, uncovered,
stirring occasionally, for 30 minutes. Stir in salt, remove from heat
and stir in 1/4 cup of cilantro. Makes 4 cups of sauce. CASSEROLE:
Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Spread tortillas out on two baking
sheets coated with vegetable oil spray. Lightly coat tops of
tortillas with vegetable oil spray and place them in preheated oven
for 10 minutes. Turn over and bake 3 minutes more. Remove from oven
and set aside, leaving oven on.
Steam diced zucchini until just crisp-tender, about 2 minutes.
Remove from steamer and set aside.
To assemble casserole, lightly coat a 7-by-11 inch baking dish with
vegetable oil spray. Spread a thin layer of sauce evenly over the
bottom.
Cover sauce with 2 toasted tortillas. Evenly spread the chopped
spinich over the top of the tortillas. Top with one-fourth of the
remaining sauce and one-fourth of the cheese.
Place 2 more tortillas over the top and press down. Spread the corn
on top and cover with one-third of the remaining sauce and one-third
of the remaining cheese. Top with 2 more tortillas, again pressing
down. Top with zucchini, one-half the remaining sauce and one-half
the remaining cheese. Top with the 2 remaining tortillas and press
down. Spread remaining sauce evenly over the top and sprinkle on
remaining cheese.
Cover tightly with foil and place in preheated oven for 25 minutes.
Uncover and bake about 10 minutes more, or until lightly browned. To
serve, sprinkle 1/4 cup of chopped cilantro over the top.

