Title: TAMALES
Categories: Pork, Mexican
Yield: 48 Tamales
48    Dried corn shucks
More corn shucks; for lining
-steamer
MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
2 lb Pork, lean, boneless;  cut
-in 2" chunks
;Water
1/2 c  Raisins (opt)
Salt & pepper
2/3 c  Onion; chopped, peeled
2 lg Garlic cloves; peeled &
-chopped
1 lb Tomato; chopped
8 oz Tomato sauce
1 ts Oregano
4 oz Green chiles; drained
Jalapeno peppers; roasted,
-seeded & skinned (to taste)
2 tb Lard
1 lg Bay leaf
1 pn Sugar
MMMMM---------------------------DOUGH--------------------------------
2/3 c  Lard; room temp
4 c  Masa harina
1 tb Salt
1 tb Baking powder
3 c  Warm pork stock (reserved
-from pork filling recipe)
Filling:  Place pork in a large, heavy saucepan or Dutch oven and add
water just to the top of the meat. Add two teaspoons salt and 1/2
teaspoon pepper and raisins. Cover and bring to a boil over high
heat. Reduce heat to moderately low and simmer about two hours, or
until meat is very tender.

Strain stock into a container for use in the dough. When meat is cool
enough to handle, shred with a fork or fingers. Puree onion, garlic,
tomatoes, tomato sauce, oregano, shiles and jalapeno in a blender or
processor.

Heat lard in a skillet over moderate heat.  Add puree, 1/2 tablespoon
salt, bay leaf, and sugar and cook for about 10 minutes, stirring
constantly. Mix puree with the shredded meat and raisins. Taste and
add additional salt, pepper, or jalapenos if desired. Makes about
five cups.

Dough:  In a small, straight-sided mixing bowl beat the lard with an
electric mixer, processor, or fork until it is light and fluffy. On a
piece of wax paper mix masa with salt and baking powder and beat into
lard, adding about 1/4 of the mixture at a time.  When well mixed,
beat in stock 1/4 cup at a time to make a slightly mushy, but not
watery, dough.

Construction:  Put shucks in a large bowl, cover with very hot water,
and let soak for at least 1-1/2 to two hours, until soft and pliable.
If using packaged shucks, separate them after a few minutes of
soaking to make sure each one is in contact with the water. Before
using, shake excess water from the softened shucks. Wet your hands.
For each tamale spread about two tablespoons of the dough into a
rectangle on the inside of a shuck; spread to within 3/4 inch of the
edges and leave about three inches at the pointed end and 1-1/2
inches at the wide end of the shuck. Spread 1-1/2 to two tablespoons
filling lengthwise down the center of the dough. Fold over ends of
shucks so that dough completely covers filling. Arrange tamales
upright in steamer with folded wide ends down.

To cook tamales, fill the bottom of a steamer with water to a depth of
about one inch.  If desired, line steamer basket with additional corn
shucks.  Pack wrapped tamales upright in basket with the broad ends
of the shucks down.  When steamer is full, cover tamales with
additional shucks or a clean dish towel to prevent condensation from
soaking them. Cover pot tightly and bring to a boil over high heat.
Reduce heat to moderately low and steam one to 1-1/2 hours. Add water
as necessary. Unwrap a tamale, and if dough comes away from the shuck
easily, tamales are cooked. Tightly covered, tamales may be kept
several days in the refrigerator, or they may be frozen for several
weeks. Reheat, covered, in a 300 F. oven.

