Title: TANDOORI CHICKEN (DE WITT)
Categories: Indian, Poultry
Yield: 4 Servings
Stephen Ceideburg
1/2 c  Fresh lime juice
4 ts Ground cayenne pepper
1 tb Ground paprika
1 sm Onion, chopped
5    Cloves garlic
1 tb Peeled, chopped ginger root
2 ts Coriander seeds, crushed
1 ts Cumin seeds
1/2 ts Turmeric
1 c  Nonfat yogurt
3 lb Chicken, skinned and trimmed
-of fat
This famed chicken "barbecue" from northern India is traditionally
prepared in a tandoor, an underground jar-shaped clay oven that
believed to have originated in Persia. The oven can be heated to very
high temperatures, which sears the chicken and seals in the juices.
Equally delicious results can be obtained in a conventional oven or
on a covered grill. The yogurt marinade keeps the chicken from drying
out.

Combine 1/4 cup lime juice, cayenne, paprika, onion, garlic, ginger,
coriander, cumin and turmeric in a blender or food processor and
blend for several minutes, or until the mixture forms a smooth paste.
Transfer the mixture to a bowl and stir in the remaining 1/4 cup lime
juice and yogurt.

Place chicken in a shallow non aluminum dish. Make deep gashes in the
flesh and stuff with the yogurt mixture. Rub the rest of the yogurt
mixture over the chicken, cover and marinate for 8 to 24 hours in the
refrigerator.

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Place the chicken on a lightly oiled
rack over a roasting pan. Reserve any marinade that doesn't cling to
the bird for basting. Bake the chicken, basting occasionally, for 1
hour, or until the juices run clear when the bird is pierced with a
fork.

Alternatively, to grill the chicken, prepare a charcoal fire. When the
coals are hot, push them to the outsides of the grill. Place a drip
pan in the center and bank the coals around it. Place a lightly oiled
cooking rack on top. Set the chicken on the rack over the drip pan.
Cover and cook for 1 1/2 to 1 1/4 hours, or unto the juices run clear
when the bird is pierced With a fork. Watch the coals and the chicken
closely and add more coals as necessary, taking care the chicken does
not overcooks

315 CALORIES PER SERVING: 50 G PROTEIN, 6 G FAT, 14 G CARBOHYDRATE;
157 MG SODIUM; 124 MG CHOLESTEROL.

Adapted from The Whole Chile Pepper Book by Dave De Witt and Nancy
Gerlach. Copyright 1990 by Dave DeWitt and Nancy Gerlach. Reprinted
by permission of Little, Brown and Company (Inc).

