Title: TEA-SMOKED CHICKEN SALAD
Categories: Salads, Poultry, Grains, Vegetables, Fruits
Yield: 4 Servings
1/2 ts Salt
1/4 ts Szechuan peppercorns,
Crushed*
1/8 ts Granulated sugar
1/8 ts Ground ginger
10 oz Skinless boneless chicken
Thighs
1 md Scallion, quartered
3 sl Pared fresh ginger root
2 cl Garlic, crushed
1/2 c  Uncooked, regular long-grain
Rice
2 tb Firmly packed light or dark
Brown sugar
1 tb Plus 1 1/2 tsp. Lapsang
Souchong tea leaves*
1/2    Cinnamon stick
3    3 1/2" x 1/2" strips orange
Zest**
4 c  Torn lettuce leaves
1 1/2 c  Drained, canned, sliced
Water chestnuts
3 tb Low-sodium chicken broth
2 tb Fresh lemon juice
1 tb Peanut oil
1 md Papaya, pared, seeded and
Diced
In small bowl, combine salt, peppercorns, granulated sugar and ground
ginger; rub into chicken.  Place scallion, ginger root and garlic on
top of chicken; refrigerate, covered, 1 hour.

Set a steamer rack or round baking rack into large saucepan; add 1-2
inches water, being careful that water does not reach top of rack.
Spray large heat resistant plate with nonstick cooking spray (plate
should fit into saucepan).

Bring water in saucepan to a boil; reduce heat.  Place chicken with
scallion, ginger root and garlic, along with any accumulated juices,
on prepared plate; set plate on rack. Cook chicken over simmering
water, covered, 5 minutes, until almost cooked through. Remove
chicken and rack from saucepan; discard liquid in saucepan.

Spray same rack with nonstick cooking spray; transfer chicken to rack,
discarding scallion, ginger root and garlic.

Line same saucepan with foil.  Sprinkle foil with rice, brown sugar
and tea leaves; add cinnamon stick and orange zest. Place saucepan
over medium heat; cook until mixture begins to smoke. Set prepared
rack into saucepan; cook, covered, 12 minutes, until chicken is
cooked through. Remove chicken from saucepan; set aside to cool.

While chicken is cooling, in large bowl, combine lettuce,
waterchestnuts, broth, lemon juice and oil, tossing well to coat
thoroughly; divide evenly among 4 plates. Slice cooled chicken;
arrange 1/4 of the chicken and papaya on each portion of salad.

*Szechuan peppercorns and Lapsang Souchong tea leaves can be
purchased in Asian food stores or the Asian food sectin of some
supermarkets. If loose tea leaves are not available, use three tea
bags and open to release leaves, discarding bag.

**The zest of the orange is the peel without any of the pith (white
membrane).  To remove zest from orange, use a zester or vegetable
peeler; wrap orange in plastic wrap and refrigerate for use at
another time.

EACH SERVING PROVIDES: 3/4 fat; 1/2 fruit, 2 vegetables; 2 proteins;
1/2 bread

PER SERVING: 186 calories; 16g protein; 7g fat; 17g carbohydrate; 68mg
calcium; 349mg sodium; 59mg cholesterol; 1g dietary fiber

