Title: THAI CRAB ROLLS
Categories: Thai, Appetizers
Yield: 4 Servings
Thai dipping sauce:
1 c  Distilled white vinegar
1/2 c  Light brown sugar; plus 4
-teaspoons
1 1/2 tb Minced garlic
1 tb Crushed dried red pepper
1/3 c  Fish sauce; *see cook's
-notes, below
Crabmeat filling:
2 tb Unsalted butter; or olive
-oil
2 ts Minced garlic
1/3 c  Onion; chopped
1/3 c  Celery; chopped
1/3 c  Shredded carrot
3    Fresh shiitake mushroom caps
-- coarsely  chopped
1 c  Lump crabmeat; fresh or
-drained canned, well
Picked over
1 tb Fish sauce; *see cook's
-notes, or salt to taste
Freshly ground black pepper,
-to taste
10    Spring roll wrappers; 8
-inch square
1 tb All-purpose flour; mixed
-with 1 tablespoon cold
-Water to form a paste
Vegetable oil, for deep
-frying
PREPARE THE SAUCE:
Combine the vinegar and sugar in a small saucepan and bring the
mixture to a boil over moderate heat. Boil just until the sugar is
dissolved. Transfer the liquid to a small bowl. Add the garlic,
pepper, and fish sauce.  Set aside. MAKE THE FILLING:
Melt the butter in a skillet over moderate heat. Add the garlic
and onion and cook until the onion is translucent, about 2 minutes.
Add the celery, carrot and mushrooms, and saute until the vegetables
are soft but not browned, about 2 minutes.  Add the crabmeat, fish
sauce and black pepper and toss well.  Transfer the filling to a bowl
and cool completely. ASSEMBLE THE ROLLS:
Stack the spring roll wrappers.  Using a sharp knife or scissors,
cut the stacked wrappers in half along the diagonal. Work with one
triangle at a time, keeping the remaining wrappers covered with a
damp kitchen towel to prevent drying.
Place a triangle smooth side down on a work surface, with the
long edge nearest you.  Lightly brush the sheet with the flour paste.
Place 2 heaping teaspoons of the filling along the lower edge of the
wrapper, [then fold in points at the side over filling] and then roll
up from the bottom to enclose the filling. Place the roll seam side
down on a large plate and keep covered with a damp towel while you
fill and roll the remaining triangles.
Preheat the oven to 250F.  Line a baking sheet with paper towels.
COOK THE ROLLS:
Heat 2 inches of oil in a wok or deep heavy skillet to 350F.
Gently add the rolls in batches and cook, turning occasionally, until
golden brown, about 2 minutes. Remove with a slotted spoon to a sieve
set over a large bowl to drain.  Transfer the rolls to the baking
sheet and keep warm in the oven while you cook the remaining rolls.
Serve the rolls with the dipping sauce. VARIATION: Crabmeat
Triangles: Cut each spring roll wrapper into 3 strips. Place 2
teaspoons of the filling on a bottom corner of each strip and fold up
and over flag-style to form triangles.  Brush the end with flour
paste before the last fold to seal.  Fry and serve with the sauce as
above.
If you prefer to bake rather than fry these treats, wrap up the
filling flag-style in strips of phyllo pastry to form triangles,
spray or brush with butter, and bake in a preheated 375F oven until
golden brown, about 15 to 20 minutes.  Serve the triangles on their
own, without sauce. *Cook's Notes:  When buying fish sauce, look for
the Squid or Tiparos brand. Once opened, fish sauce lasts up to a
year at room temperature. Fish sauce is available in Asian markets
and in some well-stocked supermarkets.
Cooked salmon, lobster meat, or chicken may be substituted for the
crabmeat.
For additional flavor and texture, wrap the fried rolls in tender
lettuce leaves, along with some sprigs of mint and coriander, before
dipping into the sauce. Yield: 20 rolls for hors d'oeuvres, or enough
for 4 to 6 appetizer servings. Source: Cooking Under Wraps

