Title: THAI GLASS NOODLES (YAM WOON SEN)
Categories: Thai, Pasta, Ceideburg 2
Yield: 4 Servings
2 oz Dried mung bean noodles
1 tb To 2 tb vegetable oil
1    Whole chicken breast,
-boned, skinned and
-coarsely chopped
Salt and pepper to taste
1    Fresh red or green chile,
-chopped
3 tb Lime juice
2 tb Nam pla (Thai fish sauce)
1 ts Sugar
3    Shallots, peeled, thinly
-sliced
1/2 c  Fresh coriander leaves
6 oz Cooked bay shrimp
Shredded lettuce
1 tb To 2 tb crisp-fried shallots
-(optional)
This recipe comes from the Oriental Hotel in Bangkok, location of the
Thai Cooking School.  It has been adapted for the American cook. With
this recipe it's necessary to use mung bean glass noodles rather than
those based on rice flour.  Check the ingredients on the package when
buying.

Put mung bean noodles in a bowl and pour in lukewarm water to cover.
Let soak until soft and pliable (about 15 minutes). Drain. Add
noodles to a large pot of boiling water. reduce to medium heat; cook
until noodles are plump and glass like (3 to 5 minutes). Drain in a
colander; rinse with cold water; drain again. Cut into 3 or 4 inch
lengths.

Chill.

Pour oil into a hot wok or skillet.  Add chicken; saute until it
loses it's pink color.  Break into small morsels. Season with salt
and pepper to taste. Cool.

Mix together chile, lime juice, nam pla, sugar, shallots and
coriander; pour over noodles and mix thoroughly. Add chicken, shrimp
and chilled noodles; mix well.

Serve on a bed of shredded lettuce.  Garnish with the optional crisp
fried shallots.

Serves 4 to 6.

NOTE:  Crisp fried shallots are available in Asian grocery stores.

San Francisco Chronicle, 8/29/90.

As far as the crisp fried shallots go, they're easy to make. Just fry
some sliced shallots in a little oil until they're browned and crisp.
I wouldn't hesitate to substitute dried onion flakes fried in the
same way... I add them to a lot of Thai soups for an extra flavor
accent. Good stuff!

Posted by Stephen Ceideberg; September 28 1992.

