Title: THAI VEAL POTSTICKERS
Categories: Thai
2 sm green onion -- minced
Yield: 4 Servings
1 TB fresh ginger -- finely
minced
:
1 lb ground veal
2 TB oyster sauce
1 TB Chinese rice wine
1/2 ts Asian chili sauce
40    round gyoza or wonton
wrappers
:
1/4 c  cornstarch
3 TB flavorless cooking oil
Sauce:
:
1 TB fresh basil leaves --
minced
:
1 TB cilantro -- chopped
1 sm green onion -- minced
1/2 c  unsweetened coconut milk
1/4 c  Chinese rice wine
1 TB oyster sauce
1 ts Asian chili sauce
1/2 ts curry powder
1/2 ts sugar

Advance preparation: In a bowl, combine the green onions, ginger,
veal, oyster sauce, rice wine and chile sauce. Mix thoroughly. Place
2 teaspoons filling in the center of a wrapper. (If using square
wonton wrappers, trim them into circles.) Bring edges of wrapper up
around filling and encircle the dumpling "waist" with your index
finger and thumb. Squeeze the waist gently with that same index
finger, while also pressing the top and the bottom of the dumpling
with your other index finger and thumb. Line a baking sheet with
parchment paper, dust paper heavily with cornstarch, place dumplings
on the baking sheet, and refrigerate uncovered. Set aside the cooking
oil. Combine all sauce ingredients and mix well. All advance
preparation steps may be completed up to 8 hours before you begin the
final cooking steps. Final cooking steps: Place a 12-inch nonstick
saute pan over high heat.  Add cooking oil and immediately add
dumplings bottom side down. Fry dumplings until bottoms become dark
golden, about 2 minutes. Pour in sauce.  Immediately cover pan,
reduce heat to medium, and steam dumplings until they are firm to the
touch, about 2 minutes. Shake the pan so that the dumplings "capsize"
and are glazed all over with the sauce. Tip out onto a heated serving
platter or 4 heated dinner plates. Serve at once. Suggested
accompaniments: Roasted baby beets, a Cobb salad, and raspberries
with Grand Marnier truffles. Serves 6 to 10 as an appetizer or 4 as
the main entree.

: Hot Pasta, by Hugh Carpenter and Teri Sandison
Recipe By

From: Rooby <rooby@shell.Masterpiece.Codate: Sun, 27 Oct 1996 22:27:23
~0800

