Title: THANKGIVING DRESSING
Categories: Holiday, Stuffing, Poultry
Yield: 8 Servings
Vegetable spray
1 tb Margarine
1 1/4 c  Onion, chopped
1 1/4 c  Celery, chopped
2 tb Water
1 1/4 ts Poultry Seasoning
1 ts Rubbed Sage
1/4 ts Salt
3 c  White Bread (1/2 inch cubes)
-about 6-11 slices
2 1/2 c  Chicken Broth
1/3 c  Parsley,finely chopped fresh
1    Egg
MMMMM---------------------SOUTHERN CORNBREAD--------------------------
1 c  Flour
1/4 c  Yellow Cornmeal
2 ts Baking Powder
2 ts Sugar
1/8 ts Salt
1 c  Skim Milk
2 tb Vegetable Oil
1    Egg, beaten
Some people call it dressing, and some call it stuffing, but everyone
calls it delicious. And it is apart of every Thanksgiving table I can
remember! How about you? However you try and say it it's good! It
means a family traditions gathering around the kitchen with the
family while you make the stuffing to go inside of the turkey out out
side of the turkey. Oh the smells of the kitchen will bring you all
home for sure.. Stuffing is as American as Apple Pie, and baseball.
Weather you call it Dressing or stuffing it is a savory well seasoned
mixture of bread on bread. If your from the deep South you most
likely use corn bread, and if your from the Cajiun country yu might
like oysters, and french bread and articoke hearts. However you fix
it, or how ever you serve it. It's family traditions that matter.
It's the memories that will last a life time to share with our
friends and families now.. Here's a Southern Cornbread Stuffing that
one of my favorites.

DIRECTIONS:

TO MAKE THE CORN BREAD: Combine first 5 ingred. in a large bowl stir
well. Combine milk,oil and egg add to flour mixture.. Stirring just
until dry ingred. are moistened Spoon batter into a 8 inch square
baking pan. coated with cooking spray (Pam) Bake at 425 for 20 min.
or until center comes out clean. Makes 8 servings. When corn bread is
done cool on wire rack and crumble corn bread and set aside until
ready to mix with the move ingred.

Melt margarine in large skillet over medium heat add onion, celery and
water and cover. Reduce heat to medium low and cook 15 minutes or
until tender. Remove from heat stir in poultry seasoning, sage, salt
and white bread. Combine crumbled corn bread, onion and bread
mixture, chicken broth, parsley and egg in a bowl and stir well.
Spoon mixture into a 2-qt casserole coated with Pam (vegetable
non-stick spray) Bake uncovered at 325 for 35 min.

Makes about 8 servings.

