Title: THE $250.00 NEIMAN-MARCUS COOKIE RECIPE
Categories: Cookies, Chocolate
Yield: 112 Cookies
2 c  Butter
4 c  Flour
2 ts Baking soda
2 c  Granulated sugar
2 c  Brown sugar
5 c  Blended oatmeal (Powder
Oatmeal in blender after
Measuring)
24 oz Chocolate chips
1 ts Salt
1 ea 8 ounce Hershey Bar (grated)
4 ea Eggs
2 ts Baking powder
3 c  Chopped nuts (your choice)
2 ts Vanilla
Cream the butter and both sugars.  Add eggs and vanila: mix together
with flour, oatmeal, salt, baking powder, and soda. Add chocolate
chips, Hershey Bar and nuts.  Roll into balls and place two inches
apart on a cookie sheet.  Bake for 10 minutes at 375 degrees.

The following is a TRUE STORY:

My daughter and I had just finished a salad at Neiman-Marcus Cafe in
Dallas & decided to have a small dessert. Because both of us are such
cookie lovers, we decided to try the "Neiman-Marcus Cookie". It was
so excellent that I asked if they would give me the recipe and the
waitress said with a small frown "I'm afraid not." "Well" I said,
"would you let me buy the recipe?"   With a cute smile, she said
"YES". I asked how much and she responded, " Only two fifty, it's a
great deal!" I said with approval, "just add it to my tab".

Thirty days later, I received my VISA statement from Neiman-Marcus
and it was $285.00.  I looked again and remembered I had only spent
$9.95 for two salads and about $20.00 for a scarf. As I glanced at
the bottom of the statement, it said,  "Cookie Recipe - $250.00".
That's outrageous!! I called Neiman's Accounting Dept. and told them
that the waitress said it was "two - fifty," which clearly does not
mean "two hundred and fifty dollars"  by any POSSIBLE interpretation
of the phrase. Neiman-Marus refused to budge. They would not refund
my money, because according to them,  " What the waitress told you is
not our problem. You have already seen the recipe - we absolutely
will not refund your money at this point." I explained to her the
criminal statutes which govern fraud in Texas, I threatened to refer
them to the Better Business Bureau and the State's Attorney General
for engaging in fraud. I was basically told, " Do what you want, we
don't give a crap, and we're not refunding your money." I waited a
moment, thinking of how I could get even, or even try to get any of
my money back. I just said "Okay, you folks got my $250, and now I'm
going to have $250.00 worth of fun." I told her that I was going to
see to it that every cookie lover in the United States with an e-mail
account has a $250.00 cookie recipe from Neiman-Marcus... for free.
She replied, " I wish you wouldn't do this" I said, " Well you should
have thought of that before you ripped me off, and slammed down the
phone on her.

So, here it is !!!  Please, please,  please pass it on to everyone
you can possibly think of.  I paid $250 dollars for this... I don't
want Neiman-Marcus to ever get another penny off of this recipe...
Formatted and converted by <kingman>

