Title: THE LILAC INN CRAB CAKES WITH ANCHO CHILI REMOULADE
Categories: Seafood, Inn recipes
Yield: 12 Cakes
MMMMM-------------------------CRAB CAKES------------------------------
1 c  Bread crumbs, fresh, white
2 tb Olive oil
3 tb Half and half
1 ts Dry mustard
1/2 ts Paprika
1/4 ts Tabasco sauce
Juice of one lemon
2 ts Pepper, fresh cracked
1 lb Cooked crabmeat
2    Eggs, separated
3 tb Horseradish, finely grated
3/4 c  Cream sauce
Salt to taste
Clarified butter
Lemon wedges
MMMMM-------------------ANCHO CHILI REMOULADE------------------------
1    Ancho chilies (to 2 chilies)
-ripened, dried poblano
-chilies are sometimes
-labeled pasilla
2 lg Egg yolks
1/4 ts Dried mustard
1/2 ts Salt
1/2 c  Olive oil (to 2/3 cup)
2 tb Lemon juice
1 tb Tarragon vinegar
2 tb Small capers, rinsed and
-finely chopped
1/4 c  Celery, finely chopped
1/4 c  Yellow onion, finely chopped
1/4 c  Cornichons, finely chopped
1 tb Parsley, finely chopped
1 cl Garlic, minced
Crab Cakes:  Soak the breadcrumbs in the olive oil and half and half.
In a small bowl combine the mustard, paprika, Tabasco, lemon juice,
and pepper and mix thoroughly.  In a large bowl, combine the
crabmeat, egg

yolks, horseradish, cream sauce, soaked breadcrumbs, salt and mustard
mixture and mix well.  Taste and adjust seasonings if necessary. In a
small, dry, clean bowl, whip the egg whites to soft peaks.  Fold them
into the crab mixtures.  Form the crab mixture into twelve small
cakes. Heat a teflon skillet or griddle to 350 degrees with just
enough clarified butter to film the bottom.  Fry the crab cakes until
they are golden brown on each side and heated through, approximately
3 minutes per side. Service with Ancho Chili Remoulade and garnish
with a lemon wedge.

Ancho Chili Remoulade:  Remove and discard stems and seeds from the
chilies.  Place them in a bowl and add enough water to cover.  Weight
them with a plate so they are completely submerged and let them soak
overnight, or for at least 6 to 8 hours.  Or, place seeded chilies in
boiling water, cover and simmer for 5 minutes.  Turn off heat and let
steep 20 minutes or until soft. In a blender or food rocessor, puree
the chilies until smooth. Add the egg yolks, dry mustard and salt and
blend until smooth.  Add oil in a steady stream, very slowly at
first.  Continue adding the oil until desired thickness is reached.
Blend in the lemon juice and tarragon vinegar.  Place mixture in a
bowl and fold in remaining ingredients. Refrigerate several hours
before serving.

Source:  The Lilac Inn, Brandon, Vermont

