Title: THE TAHITIAN OVEN
Categories: Tahiti, Info/tips, Ceideburg 2
Yield: 1 Servings
1    Information
The Tahitian stuff is basically pretty simple fare, but it requires
all sorts of Tahitian veggies, fruits along with fish that I can only
find in pet stores around here.

There are some inconsistancies and maybe an incongruity or two in the
definition and spelling of the regional ingredients. I copied them
directly out of the book, so tain't my fault. Most of these terms and
names have all the strange little marks over the vowels++much like
written Vietnamese. I haven't even attempted to replicate those.

The preparation of a ahima'a [Polynesian oven and its contents]
requires a considerable amount of work and time.

As most Tahitians nowadays have regular employment, they can seldom
spare the time to cook in this manner and the tama'ara'a [meal]
around the traditional ahima'a is generally reserved for week-ends or
special occasions.

To prepare for about 40 people, the hole in the ground should measure
around 3 m long by 2 m wide by 0.80 m deep.

Line the bottom of the oven with dry wood placed crisscross to
facilitate the fire.

Completely cover the wood with a layer of volcanic stones. Light the
fire and allow it to burn out almost completely, until the red hot
stones remain in the bottom of the oven. Cover these with some green
branches and a bed of green banana leaves.  Season the pig and
chicken and lightly baste with oil before placing them on the bed of
leaves, together with all the other ingredients such as crayfish,
fish, vegetables, bananas and breadfruit, all wrapped individually in
leaves.

Cover the food with several layers of banana leaves, then a layer of
damp sacks before shoveling back enough sand or earth to fill the
oven.

Allow to cook for at least 3 hours.

The opening of the ahima'a is quite a ceremony among Tahitians and
all the guests usually assemble to witness the spectacle. It is
surprising to find that all the ingredients are almost invariable
cooked to perfection, the pork usually has a golden crust and the
different dishes, despite having been cooked together in the same
oven retain their particular odour and flavour.

Posted by Stephen Ceideberg; September 13, 1992.

