Title: THE CHOCOLATE DOME
Categories: Chocolate, Sauces
Yield: 1 Servings
For The Cake-Baking
Bowl-----
1 tb Unsalted Butter -- softened
3 tb Flour -- or more
4 lg Eggs
1 c  Granulated Sugar
3/4 c  Cake Flour -- sifted
5 oz Semisweet Chocolate
1 c  Heavy Cream -- chilled
1 c  Fresh Orange Juice --
Sweetened to taste
2 tb Grand Marnier -- (optional)
1 pt Fresh Raspberries
For Decoration-----
7 oz Semisweet Chocolate --
Melted
6    To 8
Lemon, Orange O
1 tb Cocoa Powder -- in a fine
Sieve
Raspberry Sauce-----
1 1/2 c  Fresh Raspberries
1/2 c  Sugar -- or more
2 tb Fresh Lemon Juice
Fresh Green Leaves Such As
Preparing the Genoise Sponge Cake:  Preliminaries. Using the pastry
brush, butter an 8-inch (4 cup) stainless steel bowl (one you can
bake in) quite generously and coat with flour (knock out the excess).

Preheat oven to 350 F.  Cake batter:  Beat eggs and sugar in bowl of
mixer for 5 minutes until thick, fluffy and tripled in volume.
Rapidly sift and fold in flour with big rubber spatula and scoop
batter into prepared bowl. bake in middle level of preheated oven for
35 to 45 minutes until toothpick stuck in middle comes out clean.
Turn out onto rack to cool completely (1 hour) before proceeding.

Melt the chocolate: Bring 2 inches of water to simmer and set bowl
over it, add 5 oz of chocolate and remove from heat. When completely
melted, remove bowl from water and let cool to room temp.

Whip cream into soft peaks and set bowl over ice water. Fold half the
cream into cooled (but liquid) chocolate; when incorporated, fold in
the rest to complete the mousse.

Assembling the cake:  (Taste the OJ to be sure it's sweet enough and
add Grand Marnier if desired.  Shave off crusty top of cake (it won't
absorb the OJ) Use a serrated knife to slice the Genoise into 3
layers of equal thickness.  Line 8 inch bowl with plastic wrap. Fit
round top piece of cake into bowl, brush with about 4 tab of OJ.
Spoon 1/3 of the mousse onto soaked layer and strew on a handful of
raspberries. Place the next layer ontop of the mousse, brush with 1/3
cup of OJ and spoon on rest of mousse, a handful of raspberries and
put on the last layer of cake. Brusk on the last of the juice. Bring
the hanging edges of plastic over the top, cover with another piece
of plastic and refrigerate for several hours before decorating.
Making chocolate icing: Melt remaining chocolate in a bowl over
simmering water (same as mousse)  Remove plastic covering from cake
and unmold domed-side up onto a rack, then peel off and discard
plastic. Lightly dampen your work surface so a 12 inch sheet of
plastic wrap will adhere.  Using rubber spatula, spread a thin 10-11
inch disk of cool liquid chocolate in the center of the sheet.
Rapidly slide plastic ito the bowl, so chocolate disc covers bottom
and sides of bowl. gently drop the chilled cake, domed side down,
into bowl, fold plastic wrap over it and refrigerate.

Makeing chocolate leaves: Dip the inside of each leaf into remaining
melted chocolate and place on a plate, coated side up. Refrigerate
until chocolate hardens.

Decorating cake:  Remove cake from fridge and fold back wrap. Turn
domed-side up onto serving cake and lift off plastic wrap. Sprinkle
with dusting of powder. Make a ring of raspberries around edge of
cake and pour a little raspeberry sauce over them. Affix chocolate
leaves to cake (with melted chocolate, after you've removed the green
part).

Raspberry sauce: Puree raspberries with 1/2 cup sugar in a blender or
food processor.  Add lemon juice, taste, adjust the flavor if
necessary. Push the sauce through a sieve.

To cut the cake, keep a knife in hot water nearby, wipe it off before
cutting. Source: Cooking With Master Chefs by Julia Child]

: Jessica Chaiken <11JCHAIKEN@GALLUA. GALLAUDET. EDU>
Recipe By

