Title: THE TEN COMMANDMENTS OF PICKLING - MARTHA STE
Categories: Pantry, Soup/stews, Info
Yield: 1 Info
No ingredients found
1. Use only the freshest ingredients, straight from the garden if
possible. Avoid produce with a waxed coating; it won't absorb brine.

2. Wash produce and cut off any bruised or discolored bits. Dirt and
spoilage that wouldn't be harmful when eaten fresh could breed
dangerous bacteria when seated in a jar.

3. Use salt without additives, such as kosher or pickling salt. Avoid
sea salt, which contains minerals, and iodized table salt.

4. Only white and cider vinegars have high enough acid levels for safe
pickling. If your pickles are too tart, don't decrease the
vinegar-add more sugar instead. Never boil the syrup beyond the time
specified; prolonged boiling breaks down acetic acid, making it too
weak to prevent bacterial growth.

5. Only jars specified for home canning are made to withstand the
stresses and high temperatures of the process. Use vintage canning
jars only if they are in perfect condition and can be used with new
two-piece screw lids for a secure fit. Use the flat lid only once.
Screw bands can be reused if they are rust-free and not bent.

6. Keep everything at its proper temperature. Pickles, jars, and lids
should be hot. Begin timing sterilizing of jars and water bath after
the water has come to a boil.

7. Leave pickles out to cool for twenty-four hours after processing.
Before storing them, check seals: The lids should be taut and sucked
slightly inward by the vacuum inside. Jars with loose seals should be
refrigerated and the pickles eaten within a week.

8. Date the pickles. "Mine could sit in the cabinet for ten years,"
says Salli LaGrone. "I wouldn't want to serve them to company."

9. Store jars in a cool, dry, dark place. Moisture affects the seal;
light can bleach pickles.

10. Inspect each jar before opening it. Press down on the lid; if it
gives or "clicks," the seal has broken and the pickles must be
discard- ed. When you open the jar, check for mold, leakage around
the rim, gas or bubbling inside, funny smells, and slimy pickles. If
any of these are the case, throw away the entire jar where children
and pets will not find it.

Martha Stewart Living/October/94 Scanned & edited by Di Pahl & <gg>

