Title: 10 Easy Steps to Make Pressure Cooking a Pleasure
Categories: Diabetic, Information
Yield: 1 info/help
MMMMM----------------------------TEXT---------------------------------
1.  Prepare ingredients following particular recipe you're chosen
from this book.  Many meat recipes will for searing the meat before
adding liquid to the cooker.

2.  Pour the required amount of liquid into the cooker.  Since
pressure cooking is cooking food in a steam atmosphere, this liquid
is essential.

3. Add foods and seasonings according to the recipe. The Recipes is
this book are for the 4-quart cooker; if you have the 6-quart, cooker
may be increased by one-half.  NEVER fill your cooker over 2/3 FULL;
this allows for food expansion during cooking.

4. Hold cover to light and look through vent pipe from underside of
cover to be sure vent pipe opening is not blocked.  Another way is to
run a pipe cleaner through the vent pipe.

5. Fit cover on the cooker.  With the cooker handle in your left hand
and the cover handle in your right, lock the cooker closed.

6. Place the pressure regulator on vent pipe.

7. Set the cooker on the range.  Turn the burner on high heat to
exhaust air from the cooker.

8.  When cooking pressure, 15 pounds, is reached, the pressure
regulator begins to rock.  Immediately start to count the cooking
time specified in capital letters in the recipe.  At the same time,
lower the heat of the burner, use just enough heat to maintain
pressure during cooking. Don't risk overcooking foods; 1 minute of
pressure cooking equals 3 minutes regular cooking.  If the recipe
directions say COOK 0 MINUTES, this means to cook food only until
cooking pressure, 15 pounds, is reached, then remove cooker from heat
and cool according to recipe.

9.  As soon as the cooking timer rings, reduce pressure as directed
in the recipe.  To "let  pressure drop of its own accord," set cooker
aside to cool.  This usually takes about 5 minutes. This additional
time must be reckoned into the total cooking period if you wish to
serve your family on the dot. To "cool  cooker at once", place it
under cold running water or place it in a pan or sink full of cold
water.

10.  After pressure has been completely reduced, first remove pressure
regulator, then cooker cover.  Remove food to serving to serving
dish. If desired, reheat cooker -WITHOUT PRESSURE- to thicken gravy
or sauce to accompany food.

Source: Pressure Cooking is Pleasure Cooking by Patricia Phillips
Brought to you and yours via Nancy O'Brion and her Meal-Master.
Submitted By NANCY O'BRION   On   01-13-95

