Title: 6-Day Sour Dough
Categories: Bread, Sourdough, Nuts/grains, Vegetable
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM--------------------FROM: RICHARD TAYLOR-------------------------
-Random House, Copyright
-1984.
Step 1  The Starter
-Ingredients
1 1/2 t  Active dry yeast
3 T  Warm water
1/4 c  Fine whole wheat flour
Here is a recipe for
-Vollkornbrot.  It is
-copied from " The Laurel's
Kitchen Bread Book", by
-Laurel Robertson with
-Carol Flinders & Bronwen
Godfrey, published by
Dissolve the yeast in the warm water and add enough flour to make a
soft dough.  Keep in a loosely covered glass or clay container at
about 85 degrees F., 15 to 24 hours.  Do not let dough dry out Step 2
Ingredients 1/2 cup fine whole wheat flour 1/4 cup water Mix the
additional yeast and warm water into the first starter, making a
firmer dough this time. Cover and let ferment until it has doubled or
tripled and looks spongy. You now have a starter that can be kept in
the refrigerator for several months; keep in a tightly covered jar
that is not more than three-fourths full. Preliminary dough I 1/2 tsp
active dry yeast 6 cups water 2 TBS starter 6 1/4 cup rye flour
finely ground 1 pound wheat berries Prepare the evening before baking
day Dissolve the yeast in a cup or so of the water at 110 degrees.
Stir in the starter, then alternately another 2 1/4 cups warm water
and the rye flour. Let the mixture stand 12 to 14 hours at room temp.
Rinse the wheat berries in warm water. Bring 2 3/4 cups water to a
boil. Turn off the heat and add the wheat berries and let them sit
overnight. By morning the berries should have burst open; if they
didn't bring them to a boil again and cook until they burst,  Let
them cool to warm-room temp. Main dough Ingredients 1 1/2 TBS salt 2
generous TBS each ground caraway seeds and ground coriander 6 2/3
cups rye flour Stir the salt into the wheat mixture. Mix the ground
seeds into the rye flour. Pour half of this mixture into the
preliminary dough and stir in the wheat berries. Work in the
remaining flour, adding more water if necessary. Cover with a platter
or plastic sheet and let the dough rise for about three hours in a
warm place, until it is soft and quite spongy. When the dough is
ready to shape, grease the pans you are going to use. Dust them with
sifted bran or sesame seeds. Press the dough into the pans, smoothing
the surface with a wet spoon. Cover the pans and let rise 1 to 2
hours until small rifts appear in the top. Place covered breads on
the lowest shelf of a cold oven and bake 1 hr at 425 degrees then 2
hours at 215 degrees. Remove the covers or foil and bake another hour
(longer in clay), again at 425 degrees. If you bake in three normal
pans covered with aluminum foil and your oven is reliable, you can
follow our baking timings with confidence.  But if you use a covered
casserole, especially a clay one that is soaked in water, or one with
wider dimensions, more baking time is required.

Submitted By PAT STOCKETT   On   01-21-95

