Title: A Curry Pantry 4
Categories: Information, Curries
Yield: 1 info  Saffron (crocus sativus) The dried stigmas of a variety of crocus
flower, used in Moghlai curries. Regarded as the most expensive spice
in the world, it is available whole, powdered, or in liquid essense
form.

Salam (eugenia polyanza) A laurel leaf that dries to a very dark
color, almost black; used in Malaysian curries. It is not a bay leaf,
but bay leaves may be substituted for it.

Screw pine (pandanus odoratissimus) Also known as pandan. Leaves that
are used to flavor rice in Indian and Malaysia. Availsble in leaf
form or essence in some Asian markets.

Sesame seeds (sesamum indicum) The seed of an annual herb indigenous
to Indonesia; an occasional ingredient in Indonesian and Malaysian
curries.

Shallots (allium ascalonicum) This onionlike bulb is an ingredient in
Malaysian, Thai, and Singaporean curries and curry pastes.

Shrimp paste Called hei-ko in Chinese and petis in Malaysia, this
paste combines shrimp andsalt, which are allowed to ferment. It is
milder than prawn paste and is an ingredient in some commercial Thai
curry pastes.

Shrimp powder Dried powdered shrimp; available in Asian markets.

Silver foil A bright, edible foil used in some Indian curries;
available in Asian markets.

Tamarind (tamarindus indica) The five-inch pods of this tree contain
seeds and a sour pulp. The pulp and seeds can be rehydrated in warm
water and then strained. Tamarind can also be found in specialty
markets in a variety of forms; pastes, concentrates of pulp, and
whole pods dried into bricks or ground into powders. Lemon or lime
juice can be substituted for tamarind as a last resort.

Turmeric (curcuma longa) The yellow rhizome of a relative of ginger;
one of the most common ingredients in curries, curry powders, and
curries pastes around the world.

Yogurt Fermented and coagulate milk; an occasional ingredient in South
African curries but used more frequently in northern Indian curries.

A World of Curries
by Dave DeWitt and Arthur J. Pais
ISBN 0-316-18224-9
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   01-19-95

