Title: A Curry Pantry 1
Categories: Information, Curries
Yield: 1 info  Ajowan (carum copticum) Called bishop's-weed in some parts of Africa,
it is a hairy herb with pungent seeds; an occasional spice in some
African curry mixes.

Almonds (prunus amygdalus) The familiar cultivated nut; an occasional
ingredient in curries around the world.

Allspice (pimenta dioca) The dried berries of a tropical tree, grown
mainly in Jamaica, whcih suggest the aroma of cinnamon, nutmeg, and
cloves . An ingredient in West Indies curries and some commercial
curry powders.

Amchar In India, powdered mango; in the West Indies, a masala used to
curry mangoes.

Anise (pimpinella anisum) The licorice-flavored seeds of an annual
herb. An occasional ingredient in Indian curry powders.

Annatto (bixa orellana) An orange-colored extract of the seeds of the
annatto tree. Also called achiote, it is used as a coloring agent and
seasoning. An ingredient in some commercial curry pastes.

Asafoetida (ferula asafoetida) A gum resin from the giant fennel
plant, used as a seasoning in home and commercial Asian curry pastes.

Basil (ocimum basilicum) A common herb native to Central Asia. Fresh
basil is an ingredient in curries from the Malaysian state of
Selangor and in curried butters in Ethiopia.

Bay leaf (laurus nobilis) The leaf of the sweet bay or laurel tree. An
ingredient in Indian and South African curries and some ommercial
curry powders.

Black pepper (piper nigrum) The pungent berry that is perhaps the most
famous spice in the world. it is ubiquitous in curry blends all over
the world.

Bombay duck This ingredient is not duck at all, but rather a small
salted dried fish that accompanies curries in India and is a curry
ingredient in Malaysia. Substitute anchovies.

Buttermilk A low-fat milk treated with bacteria, this could be alled a
thinner version of yogurt; remove the butter from milk and you have
buttermilk. Buttermilk is used in curries in southern Indian. it is
also made into a refreshing summer drink, with green chilies, black
pepper, and salt thrown in.

Candlenuts (aleurites moluccana) Fleshy nuts of the candleberry tree
of southeast Asia, used as a thickening agent in curries. Substitute
macadamia nuts, Brazil nuts, almonds, or cashews.

Cardamon (elettaria cardamomum) The seeds of a relative of ginger,
primarily grown in India and Guatemala. Unripe (green or white)
cardamon pods are also sold; the seeds must be removed before using.
A common ingredient in home and commercial curry powders.

Cashews (anarcardium occidentale) Nuts of a small evergreen tree
(cashew apple) that are laden with fat, up to 48 percent. They are
commonly used in South Indian urries and snacks. They are an
occasional ingredient in Nepalese curries.

Cassia (cinnamomum cassia) The scraped, dried bark of a relative of
cinnamon. It is often used in place of cinnamon in the curries of
Malaysia and elsewhere in Southeast Asia.

Cayenne (capsicum annuum) One of the hotter dried chilies; its powder
commonly appears in curries worldwide.

Celery seed (apium graveolens var. dulce) The seed of the common salad
egetable. An ingredient in some commercial curry powders.

A World of Curries
by Dave DeWitt and Arthur J. Pais
ISBN 0-316-18224-9
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   01-19-95

