Title: Apricot-Pecan Stuffed Pork Loin
Categories: Fruit, Pork, Main dish, Nuts/grains
Yield: 10 servings
14 ts Salt
2 tb Dried thyme, divided
1/4 c  Molasses, divided
1/4 c  Peanut or vegetable oil,
-divided
5 lb Boneless rolled pork loin
-roast, well trimmed
1 c  Bourbon
1 c  Chicken broth
1/4 c  Whipping cream
MMMMM--------------------------STUFFING-------------------------------
1/2 t  Salt
1/4 t  Pepper
1 1/2 c  Dried apricots
1/2 c  Pecan pieces
1 ea Clove garlic
NOTE:  "The bourbon sauce for this roast requires 'flaming' on the
stovetop before pouring over the pork and baking.  But don't let this
stop you. We will tell you how, and this recipe is well worth it.
(BEWARE: Skipping this step could mean a call to the fire
department.)" Position the knife blade in a food processor bowl.  Add
the apricots, pecans, garlic salt and pepper.  Process until coarsely
chopped. Add 1 tablespoon of the thyme, 1 tablespoon of the molasses
and 2 tablespoons of the oil. Process until the mixture is finely
chopped, but not smooth. Remove the pork loin from the plastic net it
came in (there should be 2 pieces). Make a lenghtwise cut down the
center of each piece, cutting almost to, but not through the other
side.  Start at the center cut and slice horizontally toward one
side, stopping abour 1/2 inch from the edge. Repeat on the other
side. Unfold the meat so that it is flat. Repeat this procedure with
the second piece of loin.  Use a meat mallet or a rolling pin to
flatten each piece of loin to 1/2-inch thickness. Spread the apricot
mixture evenly on the top sides of the pork. Roll each piece,
jellyroll fashion, starting with a long side; tie each securely with
kitchen twine. Place the rolls, seam side down, in a shallow roasting
pan.  Brush with the remaining 2 tablespoons of oil and sprinkle with
the remaining tablespoon of thyme. Combine the bourbon, chicken broth
and the remaining 3 tablespoons of molasses in a large saucepan.
Bring to a boil, then remove from the heat. Carefullu ignite the
mixture with a long match.  When the flames die down, pour over the
rolled pork loins. Roast at 350F for 1 to 1 1/2 hours, until a meat
thermometer inserted in the thickest portion reads 160F.  Remove the
meat from the pan and keep warm.  Add the wipping cream and 1/4
teaspoon of salt to the drippings in the pan.  Cook over medium-high
heat, stirring constantly, until slightly thickened. Slice the pork
and serve withthe sauce. Makes 10 servings. [1994's Top-Rated
Recipes; Southern Living; December 1994] Posted by Fred Peters.

Submitted By FRED PETERS   On   01-06-95

