Title: Biscotti Notes
Categories: Information, Cake/cookie, Italian
Yield: 1 servings
Chocolate chip cookies are
-to the U.S.
Biscotti, whose name really
-means twice-cooked, are to
-Italy what
While the biscotti are found nearly everywhere in Italy, the
flavorings vary tremendously.  Anise is a classic, and so is almond,
but you'll often find hazelnut, walnut or pine nut, and sometimes
candied fruit as well. You occasionally will find savory biscotti,
made from diagonally sliced country bread, seasoned with olive oil,
garlic and herbs - much like a delicious crouton. Unlike most
cookies, which are sweet and cloying, the densely-textured biscotti
with its delicate flavor is subtle enough to accompany brandy and
wine. Biscotti really are grown-up cookies - think of sitting in the
Galleria in Milano, languidly dipping biscotti into a glass of sweet
Vin Santo, as sthe warm afternoon gradually slips into evening. The
twice-baked cookie is simple to make.  The first step is preparing a
simple dough and forming it into a loaf.  After a preliminary light
baking, the firm and golden loaves are sliced and the pieces laid out
of a second baking.  Turned once, they emerge from the oven toasty.
Once cooled, they're crisp and crunchy.  They are better the next day
and keep nearly forever in a moisture-proof container, ever ready for
coffee or teatime or a solitary afternoon indulgence. The origin of
these simple cookies goes back to the 5th century in Greece, where a
cinnamon and sesame-flavored version was created. Italian biscotti
were first baked in 13th century Tuscany.  Most likely they were
carried north by spice traders to Germany where they became
mandlebrodt (almond bread). During the various migrations and wars of
subsequent centuries, these study rusks were, no doubt, carried to
many parts of the Continent. In Sweden, the rusk is made with half
rye flour, half all-purpose flour, and the dough is moistened with
orange juice. In Morocco, the cookies are scented with rosewater or
orange flower water; in Portugal, with port or Madeira.

Submitted By EARL SHELSBY   On   01-28-95

