Title: Borshch
Categories: Ussr, Soup/stew, Pork, Vegetable
Yield: 8 servings
1/2 c  Vinegar
Water
2 md Leeks, white part only;
-washed and sliced
1/2 sm Cabbage head; coarsely
-chopped
3 md Tomato; peeled and chopped
1 ts Sugar; (up to 2 tsp)
1 c  Sour cream; at room
-temperature
8 md Beets
Salt
2 lb Beef soup bones
3    Beef soup bones; cracked
1/2 lb Pork, fresh and lean
1 md Bay leaf
8    Peppercorns
2    Parsley
1    Cl Garlic; halved
3 md Carrots; scrapped & sliced
2 md Onions; peeled and chopped
Recipe by: The Eastern European Cookbook-ISBN 0-486-23562-9

Wash beets and cook 7 of them whole and unpeeled, in salted water to
cover, with 1/4 cup of vinegar. Cook 30 to 40 mins, until tender.
Drain; peel beets and julienne. Put beef, bones, pork and 2 1/2 qts
cold water in a large kettle. Bring to a boil. Skim well. Add bay
leaf, peppercorns, parsley, garlic, carrots, onions and leeks and
cook slowly, covered for 1 1/2 hrs, or until the meat is tender. Add
cabbage, tomatoes and cooked beets; continue to cook slowly for
another 30 mins, or until ingredients are tender. Remove meat and cut
up, discarding any bones and gristle. Take out and discard bones, bay
leaf, peppercorns, parsley and garlic. Return cut-up meat to the
kettle. Season with salt. Peel and grate remaining beet. Place in a
saucepan with 1 cup of hot soup stock, the remaining 1/4 cup of
vinegar and sugar. Bring to a boil. Stir into the soup and warm up,
if necessary. Ladle soup into bowls and garnish with a spoonful of
sour cream. Serves 8 to 10. NOTE: Four peeled and cubed medium
potatoes may be added to the soup about 20 mins. before it is
finished, if desired.

NOTES:  The 2nd most popular soup in Russia is based on beets and is
called borshch, or derivations of that name.  Believed to have
originated in the Ukraine, the soup is made in many
:
:
variations.
It can be prepared with only beets; it may include additional
vegetables, with or without meat; or it may include poultry or
game.  Borshch can be served hot or cold, and it is generally
garnished with sour cream.  The kind of borshch that is made
:
:
:
:
in
Ukraine is very hearty.  It differs from other varieties in
:
that
it includes garlic, tomatoes and pork as well as beef and a
great number of vegetables.  All the kinds of borshch are
excellent soups and are particularly good when reheated.  It
:
:
:
is
a one-dish meal, good for a winter supper.
:

From:  Dan Klepach

