Title: Brazillian Black Bean And Red Pepper Salad <t>
Categories: Fatfree, Beans, Vegetable, Salad
Yield: 1 servings
1/2 c  Rice wine vinegar
3 T  Water
1 T  Ground cumin (more if
Desired)
x  Dash of hot red pepper
Flakes
x  Dash of salt (if desired)
2    To 3 cups of regular dried
Black beans
1 lg Red pepper, diced
1 lg Green pepper, diced
2    To 3 finely chopped carrots
2    To 3 cloves of garlic
1/2 c  Finely chopped fresh
Cilantro or fresh parsley
Pick through beans and soak overnight with plenty of water tocover.
In the morning, drain the beans and add fresh water to cover.

Place beans over heat.  Add one clove of garlic and bring to a
moderate boil.  Cook beans for approximately 30-45 minutes until
beans are tender but NOT SOFT and mushy.  The beans should be firm
enough to hold their shape.  Keep a close eye on their progress.

When beans are cooked to the tender stage, remove garlic and drain.
Place warm beans in a large serving bowl.

While beans are cooking, chop and dice the red and green peppers and
carrots.  Add them to the beans.  In a 2-cup measuring cup (or
something similiar),combine the rice wine vinegar, water, cumin and
other ingredients.  Mince the remaining garlic and add it to the rice
vinegar dressing. Stir well to combine ingredients.

Toss the bean and vegetable mixture withtherice wine vinegar dressing.
Cover and refrigerate for a few hours before serving.  I think
tossintg warm beans with dressing enhances the flavors more than if
using cold beans.

The rice wine vinegar is fairly sweet and very mild.  It makes an
exceptionally delicious replacement for olive oil in just about any
salad dressing recipe.  The lemon-y cilantro adds a wonderful flavor;
especially when combined with the cumin.  Try to use fresh cilantro.
Dired cilantro just does not have the same impact. You can substitute
fresh parsley if desired.

Serve the bean salad over rice and spoon a little dressing over it.
The red and green peppers add beautiful color and contrast nicely
with the black beans and cilantrol.  Together it makes for an
attractive presentation on the plate.

Enjoy.  I really get a lot of very useful information from this list.
I especially lovetrying the recipes.

From: Paula Hollis <P_HOLLIS@unhe.unh.edu>. Fatfree Digest [Volume 10
Issue 16] Aug. 26, 1994. Formatted by Sue Smith, S.Smith34,
TXFT40A@Prodigy.com using MMCONV

