Title: Brioche En Couronne (Crown-Shaped Brioche)
Categories: Bread, Holiday, French
Yield: 1 loaf
MMMMM--------------------------SERVINGS-------------------------------
MMMMM----------------SOURCE: GOURMET MAGAZINE, AP---------------------
In France during the Easter season the pastry shops have enchanting
displays. Beautiful chocolate molds of ducks, lambs, and nesting
hens; milk and dark chocolate eggs- hollow and solid, from penny to
football size- they all beckon from the store windows. But when I
attempted to find a traditional French Easter bread in Paris-
querying friends, visiting the elite food shop Fauchon, and tracking
down Poilane, the exalted boulangerie- I was forced to conclude that
there is none. But I learned that years ago, in the countryside, it
was customary for the lordly landowners to distribute brioche crowns
to the needy at Easter Mass. And this enticing brown ring, with its
artistically snipped crust, is superb hot from the oven when it is
soft and at its peak of flavor. In a small bowl proof 1 envelope
active dry yeast in 1/4 cup lukewarm water with 1 teaspoon sugar for
10 minutes. In a large bowl combine 1 1/2 sticks or 3/4 cup butter,
softened and cut into bits, 1/4 cup sugar, 1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla,
and 3/4 teaspoon salt. Stir in the yeast mixture and 3 eggs, one at a
time. Gradually beat in 1 1/2 cups flour, or enough to make a soft
dough. Turn the dough out onto a lightly floured surface and knead in
about 1 cup more flour for 10 minutes, or until the dough is smooth
and satiny. Form the dough into a ball, put it into a buttered bowl,
turning it to coat it with the butter, and let it rise, covered, in a
warm place for 1 1/2 hours, or until it is double in bulk. Punch down
the dough and turn it out onto a lightly floured surface. Poke a hole
in the center. Pull and shape the dough into a ring, enlarging the
ring until the center opening is about 4 inches. Put the ring on a
lightly buttered baking sheet and let it rise in a warm place,
covered, until it is double in bulk. With scissors, clip around the
outer and inner edges of the dough ring, making triangular points.
Brush the surface with 1 egg white, lightly beaten, and bake the
brioche in a preheated moderately slow oven (325-F.) for 30 to 35
minutes, or until it is well browned.

Submitted By SALLIE KREBS   On   12-26-94

