Title: Broccoli Pie 2
Categories: Vegetable, Cheese/eggs, Main dish
Yield: 8 servings
1/4 t  Coarsely ground black pepper
Olive-oil nonstick cooking
-spray
12 ea Sheets phyllo dough, about
-12- by 17-inches (about 1/2
-16 ounce package)
2 sl Fat-free bread
Yellow and red tomato
-slices, for garnish
Fresh dill sprigs, for
-garnish
3 pk Frozen chopped brocolli
(10 ounces each)
2 t  Light corn oil spread
1 bn Green onions, thinly sliced
1    Low-sodium, low fat (2%)
Cottage cheese (16 oz)
2 c  Shredded faat-free mozarella
-cheese (8 ounces)
1 pk Crumbled feta cheese
(4 ounces)
1/2 c  Loosely packed chopped
-fresh dill
ABOUT 1 1/2 HOURS BEFORE SERVING OR EARLY IN THE DAY:

Prepare the frozen chopped broccoli according to the directions on the
package (prepare all three packages together).  Drain and cool until
easy to handle.

Meanwhile, heat the corn-oil spread in a nonstick 10-inch skillet
over low heat and cook the green onions, stirring often, until tender
and lightly browned.

Squeeze the broccoli dry and place in a large bowl.  Stir in the green
onions, cottage cheese, mozzarella cheese, feta chese, dill and
pepper. Set aside.

Coat a 9-inch deep-dish pie plate with the olive-oil cooking spray.
Place the strack of phyllo sheets on waxed paper.  Spray a sheet of
phyllo with the cooking spray and place in the pie plate with the
edges overhanging. Spray a second sheet of phyllo and place in the
pie plate over the first sheet with the corners slightly away from
the corners of the first sheet. Continue layering (with all but 1
phyllo sheet), spraying each sheet and placing such that the corners
are always slightly awau from the previous sheet.

Preheat the oven to 350F.  Tear the bread into small pieces and
sprinkle over the phyllo sheets in the pie plate. Top with the
broccoli-cheese mixture.  Fold the overhanging edges of the phyllo
over the broccoli-cheese mixture (the phyllo will not completely
cover the top). Spray the last sheet of phyllo with nonstick cooking
spray and place over the top of the pie to cover the center.  Spray
the top of the pie with cooking spray. Bake for 1 hour, until the pie
is hot and the phyllo is golden brown.

To serve, cut the pie into 8 wedges.  Garnish each serving with tomato
slices and dill sprigs, if desired.

Makes 8 main-dish servings. Per serving (without garnish): 260
Calories; 6 g Fat; 22 mg Cholesterol; 800 mg Sodium. [Our All-New
Light & Easy Cookbook] [Good Housekeeping; February 1995] Posted by
Fred Peters.

Submitted By FRED PETERS   On   01-23-95

