Title: Cast Iron Cleaning and Reseasoning
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 servings
No ingredients
The following information is copied in its entirety.  This is
becoming a lost art.........

CLEANING AND RESEASONING CAST-IRON SKILLET You're browsing the junk
store or rummaging the neighbor's garage sale and there it is - a
good, old cast-iron skillet, black and righteous from decades of use
and priced to sell.  Once you get your treasure home and before you
crank up the heat, you'll need to clean and reseason it.

Here's how:

1.  Assemble a 1-pound box of salt and a quart of vegetable oil.

2.  Wash the cast iron with warm water and mild dishsoap inside and
out. Rinse well, Dry.

3.  Heat skillet over high heat, and when it's smoking hot, cover
bottom with a thick layer of salt. (This can get smelly, so you'll
want to turn on the fan.) Using an old wooden spoon you don't mind
scorching, and protecting both hands with hot pads, scrape salt
around the bottom and sides of the pan. Keep the heat on high and
keep scraping salt until the salt starts tobrown and you notice black
flecks in it. Scour the skillet for a good five minutes.  Turn off
the heat, and as soon as the salt has cooled down enough to dispose
of safely, discard it, and, being careful not to burn yourself, wipe
out the skillet with a paper towel.

4.  Repeat salt-cleaning method if skillet still looks cruddy.
Otherwise:

5.  Return skillet to burner and heat it until it's red-hot. Turn off
heat and fill skillet on-third with vegetable oil.  either tilt
skillet, or use a non-plastic brush, to coat sides with oil.  Allow
oil-filled skillet to cool completely - at least an hour.

6.  Heat skillet and oil again, to about frying temperature
(350-400F). Turn off heat and again allow to cool completely.
Overnight is best.

7.  The next morning, discard oil, wipe skillet out with a paper
towel and you're ready to go.

8.  Some folks swear soap and hot water never touch their cast iron.
Others find an occasional mild sudsing desirable.  Everybody agrees,
however, that scouring pads or powders and dishwashers will ruin the
seasoning. Use a plastic scrubber, if necessary, to dislodge stuck-on
stuff.

9.  For new cast iron, start with step 2 and then go to step 5. Lots
of manufacturers suggest heating the skillet and oil in the oven a
couple of times to season it.

**** SOURCE: San Antonio Light, 27 FEB 91
Submitted By MICHELE STEWART   On   01-07-95

