Title: Centerpieces To Eat
Categories: Mom's, Information
Yield: 1 servings
The holiday feast.
SOME FRUIT
Even your table decoration
-can be made of pretty
-edibles, to be enjoyed with
Knife-Box Charm: Set tiny pots of green-and-white leaved plants in
each end of old knife box; arrange green grapes, lady apples, pecans
in each side. Row on Row: Down 2 long sides of table, about 15" in
from edge, arrange long narrow rows of green or autumn leaves. Top
with tangerines, green grapes, bananas. Place large wooden compote
(or wooden salad bowl set on sturdy drinking glass) on large oval
tray. Build base of ivy plants. On compote and around base, arrange
fruits, with pine or laurel tucked in here and there, as shown.
Frosted Fruits: Dip red apples, pears, lemons, oranges, and assorted
grapes into egg whites beaten until frothy, then dip into granulated
sugar. Let set on cake rack, over waxed paper, until dry. Arrange in
compote or silver bowl, with laurel or lemon leaves tucked in.
Oranges, Lemons, and Limes: Fill bowl with crushed chicken wire then
with green leaves. Cut wooden sticks 12" to 15" long- insert among
leaves- put orange, lemon, or lime on end of each stick. Grapes and
Wheat: Lay sheaths of wheat down center of table; top with bunches of
purple grapes and nuts. Philodendron: Set philodendron plant on gold
paper doily. Group oranges and green grapes around it. Basket: Set
basket on its side, with apples or cranberries tumbling out. SOME
VEGETABLES Pumpkin Bowl: In hollowed-out pumpkin, heap bunches of
assorted grapes. Or set bowl filled with water in pumpkin- fill with
yellow and rust chrysanthemums. Wooden Bowl: Heap yellow-skinned
onions, tiny zucchini, shiny green peppers, and bright tomatoes in
wooden bowl++perfect for Early American table Bread and Wheat:
Arrange, right on table, 3 or 4 interestingly-shaped loaves of bread
(French, round Italian, or shiny Cholla) and several sheaves of
wheat. Relishes: Use pinpoint flower holder in low dish to hold
scallions, celery hearts, carrot sticks, radish roses, and olives in
flowerlike arrangement. Nuts: Let nuts tumble from small burlap bag.
Stand jug of cider nearby. Nice for informal buffet. Green plus Red:
Arrange French artichokes, white onions, and green apples right on
table. Add cranberries or kumquats for accent. Green Peppers: Arrange
green peppers, green grapes, and red apples in wire lettuce basket.
SOME PIE Pumpkin Tarts: Arrange tarts on attractive tray, with red
apples and bunches of red grapes tucked in here and there. Pie in the
Center: Set pie on tray or cake plate. Surround with bright green or
autumn leaves. Nestle cheese wedges or little cheese pumpkins among
leaves. Or, on tray, arrange, in twosomes, tiny wedges mince and
pumpkin pie, with frosted grapes or cracked nuts in center. Tray of
Turnovers: On tray, surround red-coated Edam or big wedge of cheese
with flaky turnovers.

