Title: Cherry Pear Pie
Categories: Pie/tart, Fruit
Yield: 8 servings
3 c  Frozen pitted tart red
-cherries
1 ea Pastry for double pie,
-recipe follows
1 ea Egg white, beaten
1 T  Sugar, coarse
Vanilla ice cream, optional
2/3 c  Sugar
3 T  Cornstarch
1/4 t  Ground nutmeg
1/4 t  Dried rosemary, crushed,
-optional
4 c  Pears, peeled, cored,
-thinly sliced
In a large mixing bowl stir together the sugar, cornstarch, nutmeg and
rosemary, if desired.  Add the fruit; toss gently to mix.  Let mixture
stand at room temperature for 20 minutes. Meanwhile, prepare pastry
dough. On a lightly floured surface, roll half of the dough to a 12
inch circle. Wrap pastry around rolling pin; unroll onto 9-inch pie
plate. Ease pastry into pie plate, being careful not to stretch
pastry. Roll remaining half of pastry to an 11 inch circle. Using a
miniature cookie cutter, cut out hearts fro the center, reserving
cutouts. Fill pastry-lined pie plate with fruit filling.  Trim dough
even with edge pf pie plate. Top with the remaining pastry circle;
adjust top crust. Trim and flute the edges. Combine the egg whites
and water; brush onto pastry. Top with heart cutouts.  Brush again.
Sprinkle with coarse sugar. Cover the edge of the pie with foil. Bake
in a 375 oven for 25 minutes. Remove foil. Bake for 30 to 35 minutes
more or until the top is golden. Cool on a wire rack. Serve warm or
at room temperature with ice cream, if desired.

PASTRY FOR DOUBLE CRUST PIE:

2 cups all-purpose flour 1/2 tsp salt 2/3 cups shortening 6 to 7 Tbsp
cold water

In a medium mixing bowl stir together flour and salt.  Cut in the
shortening until pieces are the size of peas.  Sprinkle 1 tablespoon
of the water over part of the mixture; gently toss with a fork.  Push
to side of bowl.  Repeat until all is moistened.  Divide dough in
half. Use immediately or cover and chill until needed. Source: Better
Homes and Garden

per serving:
Approx. Cook Time: Cholesterol per
Calories
grams per serving:
serving: Marks:

Submitted By MARY SMITH   On   01-27-95

