Title: Chicken Enchiladas Verdes
Categories: Chicken, Poultry, Casserole, Chilies, Vegetable
Yield: 8 servings
-drained and rinsed
-canned tomatillos)
2 c  Chicken stock, divided
1 1/2 c  Vegetable oil, divided
12    Corn tortillas
-(6-inch diameter)
2 oz Chihuahua or Muenster
-cheese, chilled
1 md Tomato, peeled and seeded
1/2 c  Sour cream (about)
1 lb Fresh poblano peppers (4
-medium)
1 lb Skinned, boneless cooked
-chicken, at room
Temperature or warm
1/2 c  Lightly packed cilantro
-leaves
Salt, to taste
1 1/2 lb Fresh tomatillos, husks
-removed and rinsed (OR
Char, peel and seed the poblano peppers and set them aside.  Shred the
chicken by pulling it apart with your fingers or by processing it
with a medium (4-mm) food processor slicing disk.  There should be 3
to 4 cups. Set aside.

To make the green salsa, mince the cilantro in a dry food processor
fitted with the metal blade.  Add the roasted poblano peppers and 1/4
teaspoon of salt; process until minced.  Add the tomatillos and
process until the mixture is pureed, slowly adding 1 cup of the
stock. Process until smooth.

Transfer the salsa to a nonreactive skillet large enough to hold a
flat tortilla.  Add 2 tablespoons of the oil and 3/4 cup of the
remaining stock. Simmer until the sauce thickens slightly, about 15
minutes. Adjust the seaonings, adding 1/4 teaspoon of salt or more,
as needed. Set the sauce aside in the skillet.  (The sauce can be
covered and refrigerated in a bowl for 48 hours.)

Heat the remaining oil in a large, heavy skilet to 325F.  Layer paper
towels on a baking sheet with additional toweling nearby.  To seal
each tortilla, slip it into the hot oil for 15 to 20 seconds, turning
it once. Use tongs to transfer the tortillas to the paper towels and
blot to remove any excess oil.  Repeat with the remaining tortillas.

Preheat the oven to 350 F and adjust the oven rack to the middle
position. To assemble the casseerole, work on the tortillas one at a
time as follows: warm the sauce and dip a sealed tortilla into the
sauce, coating each side. Rest the tortillas in a 15-by-10-by-3-inch
baking dish (use glass, porcelain, enamel, or earthenware, as the
sauce is acidic). Put a generous half cup of the shredded chicken on
each tortilla, roll it up, and put it seam-side down in the dish,
starting aty one end. Place the rolled tortillas snugly side by side
in the dish and work on top of the rolled tortillas as the dish fills
up so that no sauce is lost.

Shred the cheese.  Stir the remaining broth into the remaining sauce,
and heat it simmering--the sauce will thicken slightly.  Adjust the
seasoning and spread all of the remaining sauce over the enchiladas
(rolled tortillas).  Sprinkle with the cheese.  Cover the dish with
aluminum foil. Bake until a sharp knife inserted into the enchiladas
is withdrawn hot, about 18 to 20 minutes.

Coarsely chop the tomato.  Serve the enchiladas by spooning them out
of the baking dish.  Garnish each portion with a generous spoonful of
sour cream and some chopped tomato.

Makes 8 servings.

Nutrient Values per Serving: 458 Calories, 24 g Fat, 6 g Saturated
Fat, 26 g Protein, 35 g Carbohydrate, 62 mg Cholesterol, 300 mg
Sodium.

[THE WASHINGTON POST; November 28, 1990; Jane Freiman; "Dinner Party"]
Submitted By LAWRENCE KELLIE   On   01-12-95

