Title: Chilean Sea Bass
Categories: Information, Fish, Seafood
Yield: 1 info  Chilean sea bass is not a true sea bass, but is a member of a unique
family of fish found only in the Southern seas. In Chile, it is
called bacalao de profundidad ÄÄ cod of the depths ÄÄ but similarity
between the tow fish ends with their bright white flesh. Where cod is
lean with a very mild flavor, Chilean sea bass is rich and full of
flavor.

The flesh color of Chilean sea bass should be clear , bright white
and the fish should smell clean and fresh. The texture should be
firm, not soft or gelatinous.

The Chilean sea bass is a large fish, averaging about 20 pounds in
commercial catch, yielding large, thick fillets. Unless you get a
thinner tail-end piece, the fillet can be over 2 inches thick.
Fillets are invariably sold already skinned and ready to cook, but
may have a few bones.

Chilean sea bass are primarily found in the deep ocean waters the
length of Chile, although the fishery is beginning to expand into
other deep southern waters of the Pacific and Atlantic coasts.
Fishing for Chilean sea bass continues throughout the year, but
winter is the biggest season with the heaviest catches between
November and February. This is when prices for fresh Chilean sea bass
are at their lowest, but top quality frozen product is available
year-round at moderate prices. Expect to pay an average of $5.99 per
pound.

The high oil content of Chilean sea bass gives it delicious flavor
which can easily stand alone with just a pinch of seasoning or a
squeeze of lemon juice. However, this fish pairs up wonderfully with
more elaborate flavors. Try simmering it gently with plenty of
tomatoes, garlic and fresh herbs, or marinate it before cooking. This
is a versatile fish that can tolerate experimentation in the kitchen.

Thanks to its oil content, Chilean sea bass does not risk drying out
as quickly as leaner fish may, but you still don't want to overcook
it and lose its moist flavor. The fillets often have large pin bones
which you might want to remove before cooking; just give them a tug
with a clean pair of needlenose pliers or tweezers.

When the fish is cooked, it has big, tender flakes; cooking it in
larger pieces helps ensure that the fish won't fall apart as it
cooks. If you buy one large piece of fillet and portion it at home,
cut it in pieces about 1 to 1« inches wide, making it easier to
handle when cooked.

The rich flavor of Chilean sea bass translates into a good source of
omega-3 fatty acids, about .9 g per 3« ounce serving. Each serving
has 234 calories, 16 g of protein. 38 mg cholesterol and 19 g fat.

Simply Seafood Winter 1994
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   01-13-95

