Title: Easter Bonnet Butter Cookies - House Beautiful
Categories: Cake/cookie, Holiday, Fruit
Yield: 16 cookies
1    Recipe mock fondant, see
-separate recipe
1    Recipe Royal Icing, see
-separate recipe
Paste or liquid food
-coloring, available at
-cake supply stores
1    Recipe butter cookie dough,
-see Mother & Baby Rabbit
-Butter Cookies
1/2 c  Confectioners' sugar
1/2 lb Marzipan
1/2 c  Apricot jam, sieved, heated
-and cooled
Roll butter cookie dough on a floured surface 1/4-inch thick and cut
out cookies with a 4 1/2-inch-round fluted cutter, Place dough on
parchment-lined cookie sheets and bake in a preheated 350' oven for
10 to 15 minutes, rotating pans halfway through baking time. Cool
cookies on wire racks. Makes about 16 cookies.

Prepare crown of hat: Dust a board with confectioners' sugar and roll
out marzipan Ih inch thick and cut out rounds with a 1 1/2-inch-round
cookie cutter. Makes about 16 rounds.

Assemble cookie: Brush cookie base with a thin coating ofapricotjam,
attach marzipan crown to the center of the cookie and paint the crown
with the jam. Set aside 1 hour. Pour mock fondant over crown and
guide it along cookie base almost to the edge with the back of a
small spoon. Leave overnight to set.

All decorations are made with royal icing. In small bowls mix icing
with paste or liquid colors ofyour choice and half-fill small pastry
bags fitted with decorative tubes. Keep all filled pastry bags and
bowls of icing covered with plastic wrap when not in use.

Flowers are made with #78 decorative tip fitted to a small pastry
bag. Pipe flowers onto waxed paper, dry, and store in airtight
containers. Flowers can be made months in advance. Place hat on a
turntable and, using a #47 tip, pipe ribbon around the crown and
immediately attach flowers to ribbon. Pipe tiny green leaves using
decorative tip #349 or #350. Fill centers of flowers and spaces
between flowers and leaves with a #2 decorative tip.

House Beautiful/April/94  Scanned & fixed by DP & GG
Submitted By LAWRENCE KELLIE   On   12-29-94

