Title: Felafel 02 (Deep-Fried Chick-pea and Crushed Wheat Balls)
Categories: Middle east, Israel, Appetizer, Vegetable
Yield: 30 1" balls
1/4 c  Lemon juice, fresh
2 ts Garlic; finely chopped
2 ts Coriander, fresh; finely
;chopped
1 ts Red pepper; crushed
1 ts Ground cumin
1 ts Salt
Black pepper; freshly ground
Oil or shortening; for deep
;frying
1/2 c  Burghul, fine; (crushed
;wheat)
1 1/2 c  Arab bread; coarsely
;crumbled, or 1 1/2 cups
;coarsely crumbled homemade
;white bread
1 1/2 c  Chick-peas, dried; soaked,
;cooked and drained or 2 c
;drained, canned chick-peas
;rinsed under cold water
Place the burghul in a small bowl, pour in enough cold water to
cover it completely, and let the wheat soak for about 15 minutes.
Drain thoroughly in a sieve or colander.  Meanwhile, drop the
crumbled bread into another bowl, add cold water to cover, and soak
for 15 minutes or so. Drain the water from the bread and vigorously
squeeze the pieces completely dry. Set the burghul and bread aside.
In the jar of an electric blender, combine the garbanzos, lemon
juice, garlic, coriander, red pepper, cumin, salt and a few grindings
of black pepper.  Blend at high speed for 1 minute, or until the
mixture is reduce to a smooth puree.  Transfer the mixture to a deep
bowl.
(To make the puree by hand, mash the garlic and 1/2 teaspoon of the
salt with a large mortar and pestle or the back of a spoon to a
smooth paste. Beat in the coriander and red pepper, then add the
garbanzos and lemon juice and continue mashing until the garbanzos
are finely pureed. Stir in the cumin, the remaining salt and a few
grindings of black pepper. Or, less arduously, force the garbanzos,
lemon juice and garlic through a food mill set over a bowl and beat
in the coriander, red pepper, cumin, salt and a little black pepper.)
Stir the wheat and bread into the garbanzo puree.  Moistening your
hands occasionally with cold water, shape the mixture into balls each
about 1 inch in diameter.  Arrange the balls on wax paper or a plate
and let them dry at room temperature for about 1 hour.
In a heavy 10 to 12 inch skillet with a deep frying thermometer or
in an electric skillet or deep fryer, heat 2 to 3 inches of the oil
or shortening until it reaches a temperature of 375 degrees (F).  Fry
the balls in the hot oil a dozen or so at a time for 2 to 3 minutes,
or until they are golden brown.  As they brown, transfer them with a
slotted spoon to paper towels to drain while you fry the remaining
batches. Regulate the heat if necessary to keep the oil at 375
degrees during the entire cooking process.
Mound the felafel on a heated platter and serve hat as an
accompaniment to drinks or as a first course.

7 of 117

Source: Time Life Series: Middle Eastern Cooking  "circa '69"

MMed by: earl.cravens@salata.com
Submitted By EARL CRAVENS   On   01-06-95 (2057)

