Title: Fish Pie 2
Categories: Main dish, Fish, British, Vegetable, Crab/shrimp
Yield: 4 servings
24 2/3 oz Mashing potatoes
5/8 c  Hot milk
2 1/8 oz Butter
Salt & pepper
1 3/4 oz Shrimps/prawns or
Other shellfish AND/OR
1 3/4 oz Mushrooms
24 2/3 oz White fish
1    Shallot
2 tb Dry white wine
2    Eggs
1 7/8 c  Milk
1 1/16 oz Butter
1 1/16 oz Flour
4 tb Chopped parsley
Wash the fish, which can be  a  mixture,  or  one single type, of cod,
hake, haddock, smoked haddock etc etc. and dry - more or less. Chop
the shallot and put half of it into a buttered micro-wave dish. Put
fish on top, and sprinkle with remaining  shallot, a little salt and
pepper and the dry white wine. Cover loosely with cling film, pierced
in two or three places and microwave on full power for about 5 mins,
or until the fish is just cooked.

Meanwhile, peel, quarter and boil  the  potatoes, hard boil the eggs,
and make a white sauce with  the first lot of butter and milk, and
the flour. (I use a little bit of maggi cube to make it into a
bechamel ~ more or less. If using  mushrooms,  wipe  them, and cook
lightly in a little extra butter. If using shrimps or prawns, cook
them if needed, then shell them.

As soon as the fish is cool  enough  to  handle, flake it into a bowl,
taking care to remove any bones. Add the coarsely chopped hard boiled
eggs, and such of the optional ingredients as you are using.

Add the liquid exuded by the fish  during poaching to the white
sauce, and cook down gently until the original volume is reached
again. An alternative way of dealing with this liquid, is to cook it
down to a near syrup, then add  it to the white sauce - it has the
same effect, but needs a little more care. Taste carefully for
seasoning, and then add chopped parsley. Gently fold fish flavoured
parsley sauce into flaked fish and put the mixture into a pie dish of
suitable capacity.

When the potatoes are  done,  drain  them  and  mash. We use a potato
ricer, which works very well. Add the second quantity of butter and
the hot milk, stir briefly, season to taste and mix gently, taking
care not to develop the gluten. Spread the  mashed  potato over the
fish mixture, and if you like, make a bit of a pattern with a fork or
knife.

*May be cooked ahead to here

If not required immediately, allow to cool uncovered, then cover and
refrigerate until wanted.  Don't  keep for more then a day or so,
especially if using shrimps/prawns. When required, remove from fridge
and cook in pre-heated moderate oven  375øF 190øC until the mixture
is bubbling and the top is  browned  - 25-40 mins depending on
whether it was still warm when put into oven or had been refrigerated.
Submitted By IAN HOARE   On   12-24-94

