Title: Folares (Portuguese Easter Loaves)
Categories: Bread, Holiday, Alcohol, European
Yield: 2 loaves
MMMMM------------------SERVINGS: MAKES 2 LOAVES-----------------------
MMMMM----------------SOURCE: GOURMET MAGAZINE, AP---------------------
Portuguese sweet bread comes from the Azores, and at Eastertime on the
islands, a Madeira cloth is set at breakfast with individual bread
baskets, each containing a colored egg. Throughout the year the same
soft and springy dough is formed into plump round loaves with a
crackly sugar topping. In a small bowl proof 2 envelopes active dry
yeast in 1/4 cup lukewarm milk with 1 teaspoon sugar for 10 minutes.
In a large bowl combine 1 cup sugar, 3/4 stick or 6 tablespoons
butter, softened and cut into bits, and 1 teaspoon salt. Stir 3/4 cup
scalded milk into the butter mixture and let the mixture cool until
it is lukewarm. Stir in the yeast mixture and 3 eggs, lightly beaten.
Gradually beat in 3 1/2 cups flour, or enough to make a soft dough.
Turn the dough out onto a lightly floured surface and knead in about
1 1/2 cups more flour for 10 minutes, or until the dough is smooth
and satiny. Form the dough into a ball, put it into a buttered bowl,
turning it to coat it with the butter, and let it rise, covered, in a
warm place for 1 1/2 hours, or until it is double in bulk. Punch down
the dough and divide it into 8 pieces. Cut off about one-fourth of
each piece and reserve the small pieces. Form the large pieces into
balls and flatten them into rounds 1/2 inch thick. Put a hard-boiled
egg in the center of each round. Divide each of the remaining 8
pieces of dough in half and roll each piece into a rope about 6
inches long. Cross two of the dough ropes over each egg and seal the
ends underneath the rounds. Put the rounds on a buttered baking sheet
and let them rise, covered, in a warm place for about 30 minutes, or
until they are double in bulk. Bake the folares in a preheated
moderate oven (350-F.) for 25 to 30 minutes, or until they are
browned. Transfer them to a rack and serve them warm.

Submitted By SALLIE KREBS   On   12-28-94

