Title: Fresh Fig Tart
Categories: Pie/tart, Pastry, Fruit
Yield: 8 servings
1 3/4 c  Flour
FILLING
1 1/2 c  Half and half
1 1/2 T  Honey
1 ea Vanilla bean, split
-lengthwise
7 T  Sugar
3 T  Plus 1 tsp cornstarch
1 lg Egg
1 lg Egg yolk
3 pt Fresh ripe figs
A luscious combination of
-creamy custard and
-seasonal fruit from THE
lg CREEK INN, in Larkspur,
-California.
Makes 8 servings.
CRUST
10 T  Unsalted butter, room
-temperature
1/3 c  Plus 1-1/2 tbsp sugar
1 ea Egg yolk
1 t  Vanilla extract
CRUST: Using electric mixer, beat butter and sugar in large bowl until
fluffy.  Mix in egg yolk and vanilla.  Add lfour and mix until well
combined.  Shape dough into ball and flatten into disk.  Wrap in
plastic and refrigerate 30 minutes.  (Can be prepared 1 day ahead,
soften slightly before rolling out.) FILLING: Combine 1/2 and 1/2 and
honey in heavy medium saucepan; scrape in seeds from vanilla bean;
add bean. Bring to simmer over medium high heat. Remove from heat;
remove bean. Whish sugar, cornstarch, egg and egg yolk in medium
bowl. Gradually whisk in hot half and half mixture. Return mixture to
pan and whisk over medium heat until custard boils and thickens,
about 3 minutes. Transfer to bowl. Refrigerate until cooled to room
temperature, whicking occasionally. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead.
Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate). Position rack in center of
oven and preheat to 350F.  Lightly butter 9 inch diameter tart pan
with removable bottom.  Roll out dough on lightly floured surface to
13 inch round.  Transfer to prepared pan.  Trim edges. Pierce bottom
of crust lightly with fork.  chill 20 minutes. Bake until light
golden, approx 25 minutes.  Transfer crust to rack; cool completely.
Cut enough figs into small wedges to measure 1 generous cup. Fold fig
pieces into filling. Spread filling evenly in prepared crust. Cut
remaining figs in half lengthwise.  Arrange fig halves in concentric
circles atop filling, pointed ends toward center, covering filling
completely. Refrigerate at least 1 hour and up to 3 hours. Cut tart
into wedges. Origin: Bon Appetit, Favorite Restaurant Recipes Shared
by: Sharon Stevens

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   01-11-95

