Title: German Chocolate Cake
Categories: Cake/cookie, Chocolate, German, Dessert
Yield: 1 servings
1 c  Buttermilk
1 ts Baking soda
1 ts Vanilla extract
2 1/2 c  All-purpose flour; sifted
1/2 ts Salt
1 pk (4 oz) sweet baking
-chocolate
1/4 c  Water
1 c  Shortening
2 c  Sugar
4    Eggs; separated
MMMMM-------------------COCONUT PECAN FROSTING------------------------
1 1/3 c  Coconut flakes
1 1/3 c  Pecans; chopped
2 oz Sweet baking chocolate;
-grated
1 1/3 c  Whipping cream
1 1/3 c  Sugar
4    Egg yolks; beaten
2/3 c  Butter or margarine
2 ts Vanilla extract
Recipe by: Fannie Flagg's Original Whistle Stop Cafe Cookbook CAKE:
Combine chocolate and water and cook over medium heat until chocolate
melts, stirring frequently. Cool. Cream shortening with an electric
mixer; gradually beat in sugar. Add egg yolks, one at a time, beating
well after each addition. Add chocolate mixture, and beat until well
blended. Preheat oven to 350°F. Combine buttermilk, baking soda, and
vanilla in a small bowl, mixing well. Combine flour and salt. Add
flour mixture to the chocolate batter alternately with buttermilk
mixture, beginning and ending with dry ingredients. Beat egg whites
untill stiff peaks form; fold into batter. Pour into 2 greased and
floured 9-inch round cake pans. Bake for 25 to 30 mins, or until a
wooden pick inserted in center comes out clean. Let stand in pans 10
mins; remove from pans, and cool completely on wire racks. Spread
coconut pecan frosting between layers and on top and sides of cake.
YIELD: one 2-layer cake

FROSTING: Combine first 4 ingredients in a large heavy saucepan; cook
over low heat, stirring constantly, until butter and sugar melt.
Bring to a boil over medium heat and cook for 12 mins, stirring
constantly. Remove from heat; add vanilla, coconut, and pecans. Let
stand until cool and of spreading consistency, stirring frequently.
Stir in 3/4 of chocolate when cool. Spread between cake layers and on
top and sides of cake. Sprinkle remaining grated chocolate on top.
YIELD: enough frosting and filling for one 2-layer cake.

from my kitchen to------------------------------->yours..... Dan
Klepach

