Title: Givolei Karpas Afuiim Betamlit Bassar (see dirs)
Categories: Middle east, Israel, Side dish, Vegetable, Ground beef
Yield: 10 servings
1    Egg
2 tb Parsley; finely chopped and
;preferably flat leaf
1/4 ts Ground cinnamon
1 ts Salt
Black pepper; freshly ground
1/2 c  Water
2 tb Lemon juice, fresh
1/2 c  Flour
1    Egg; beaten with 2 tbs water
10 lg Celery stalks; fresh, crisp
2 tb Olive oil
1/4 c  Olive oil
1 lb Hamburger, lean; or ground
;lamb
1/4 c  Bread crumbs, fresh; made
;from homemade type white
;bread, pulverized in a
;blender or finely shredded
;with a fork
Name; Baked Celery Stalks with Meat Stuffing

Wash the celery stalks under cold running water.  With a small,
sharp knife, cut off and discard all the leaves and trim about 1/4
inch off the root end of each stalk.  Cut the stalks in half
crosswise and set aside.
In a small skillet, heat 2 tablespoons of the olive oil over
moderate heat until a light haze forms above it.  Add the onions and,
stirring frequently, cook for 5 minutes, or until soft and
transparent but not brown.  Transfer the onions and oil to a deep
bowl and add the ground meat, crumbs, egg, parsley, cinnamon, salt
and a few grindings of pepper. Knead vigorously with both hands, then
beat with a wooden spoon until the mixture becomes a smooth paste.
Taste for seasoning.
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees.  Pour the 1/2 cup of water and the
lemon juice into a 14 by 9 by 2 inch baking dish and set aside.
Spread about 2 tablespoons of the meat mixture into the cavity of
each celery stalk.  In a heavy 12 inch skillet, heat the remaining
1/4 cup of olive oil over moderate heat until a light haze forms
above it. One stalk at a time, roll the celery in the flour and
gently tap off the excess. Dip the stalks in the egg and water
mixture, place them in the hot oil, meat side down, and, four and
five at a time, fry for 3 or 4 minutes until the meat is lightly
browned. Carefully transfer the stalks to the baking dish and arrange
them next to each other stuffed side up.
Cover the dish tightly with foil.  Bake in the middle of the oven
for 1 hour, or until the celery is tender but not falling apart.
Remove the dish from the oven, discard the foil, and let the celery
cool to room temperature.
Just before serving, arrange the celery attractively on a large
platter and moisten it with a few spoonfuls of the cooking liquid.

13 of 117

Source: Time Life Series: Middle Eastern Cooking  "circa '69"

MMed by: earl.cravens@salata.com
Submitted By EARL CRAVENS   On   01-06-95 (2059)

