Title: Glossary of Asian Ingredients
Categories: Information, Asian
Yield: 1 info  Oriental Chili Sauce: Used to add heat as well as genuine flavor.
Tremendously hot, add small amounts at first, then more as you build
up a chili tolerance. Will keep indefinitely in the refrigerator.

Mirin: Slightly syrupy rice wine made from glutinous rice, a koji
mold and a distilled 90 proof liquor called shochu. It is
indispensable in Japanese cooking, adding sweetness and providing an
attractive glaze. choose one with no preservatives.

Oyster-Flavored Sauce: A smooth-tasting thick brown sauce made from
oyster extracts, it adds a certain richness with no hint of
fishiness. It is used sparingly to enhance the flavor of sauces,
soups and stir-fried dishes. Look for brands from Hong Kong.
Refrigerate after opening.

Sake: A Japanese wine brewed from steamed rice, koji mold and
high-quality spring water. The alcohol content ranges from 12 to 15
percent. Amino acids in sake tenderize meats, dispel fishy odors and
are a balancing agent for other salty seasonings such as soy sauce.
Store in a cool place. Refrigerate after opening.

Sesame Oil: Aromatic amber-colored oil pressed from sesame seeds.
Rarely used as a cooking oil, it will burn when subjected to high
temperature and the delicate flavor will be destroyed. Add sparingly
to marinades and sauces or drizzle a few drops over a finished
stir-fry dish. Do not substitute oil from untoasted sesame seeds
found in health food stores.

Southeast Asian Fish Sauce: Known as nampla in Thailand and petis in
Indonesia, this thin, amber, salty fermented fish sauce is used
extensively as a seasoning. It adds wonderful depth and flavor to
dishes and enhances the natural taste of foods without adding fishy
taste or odor.

Soy Sauce: A brown, salty liquid seasoning fermented from soybeans,
wheat, a koji mold and water. The enzymes in soy sauce accentuate the
natural flavor of foods. Light or thin soy sauce is saltier than a
medium-dark variety. Japanese brands are less salty than their
Chinese counterparts. Do not use domestic supermarket brands, which
are chemically fermented; better to omit soy sauce entirely.

Simply Seafood Fall 1993
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   01-13-95

