Title: Grilling Tips
Categories: Information, Bbq/grill
Yield: 1 info  Wood grilling may be the oldest Asian method of fish preparation.
Firm-fleshed whole fish, steaks and fillets can be grilled with great
success. Marinated pieces of fish, shellfish and small whole fish are
often skewered on bamboo sticks. The sticks help balance foods as
they are turned on the grill. To test skewered seafood for doneness,
twist the stick; if it can be twisted easily with little resistance,
the food is properly cooked. Soak the bamboo skewers in water for one
hour before cooking to prevent excessive burning. Grilling is
low-fat; only tiny amounts of oil are needed to baste the fish to
prevent drying and sticking. Japanese seafood teriyaki is a
gastronomic delight. Teri means "shimmering" and yaki means "to
broil". The glazing mixture should be brushed onto the foods
beginning halfway through the cooking time to prevent flare-ups and
too much burning. Monkfish, salmon, tuna, halibut, red snapper and
swordfish are excellent choices for an Asian barbecue. Avoid delicate
fish, which will fall apart. Enhanced by Asian seasonings and the
smoky taste of a wood fire, grilled seafood is hard to beat.

* When grilling whole fish, allow 10 minutes cooking time for each
inch of thickness, measured at the thickest part.

* Marinades add flavor to fish; basting sauces help keep them moist
on the grill.

* Add flavor by stuffing the cavity of a whole fish with ginger
slices, lemongrass, lime slices, sprigs of coriander or smashed green
onions.

(To smash green onion, lay it on a cutting board. With the broad side
of a cleaver or chef's knife, hit it with a forceful whack. The
fibers of the flattened vegetable will be broken and the juices
released. Shred the onion with the tip of the knife, or mince as
needed.)

* To prevent sticking, oil the grill and let it get hot before the
adding the fish.

* Cook seafood over a moderately hot fire ÄÄ but not too hot or the
delicate flesh will char.

* Fish with a fragile texture can be placed on a piece of heavy-duty
foil on top of the grill. Poke holes in the foil.

* Charcoal smoke heightens the flavor of fatty fish such as mackerel,
salmon or sablefish.

Simply Seafood Fall 1993
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   01-13-95

