Title: Haluske
Categories: Main dish, European, Vegetable, Cheese/eggs
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM---------------------FROM: CATHY HARNED--------------------------
Anyway, my mother recently wrote down for me my grandmother's haluske
recipes, and I thought you might like to have them. These are
authentic, no doubt about it, as they were my Czech grandmother's.
Hope you enjoy these recipes from the Mesarchik/Slifko clan!  If you
get any Czech recipes, I'd sure love to see them. Version #1 -
Haluske with Cabbage (pronounced "Halushke") Brown one chopped onion
in lard or margarine. (My grandmother would have used lard, but
margarine's a little healthier:) Chop about 3 cups of cabbage and add
to the onion. Fry slowly until brown and tender (about 45 minutes),
in a closed pan. Stir occasionally. Meanwhile, cook approximately
four peeled medium-sized potatoes which you've cut into small chunks.
While the potatoes are cooking, grate two other potatoes. Add about
one cup of flour to the grated potatoes.  The mixture should be soft
and spongey.  Drop small amounts from a teaspoon into boiling water.
(Use a large kettle.) Cook dumplings until they rise to the top, plus
five more minutes.  Drain well. When potatoes and dumplings are done,
combine them with the cabbage. Add salt and pepper to taste. Version
#2 - Haluske with Cottage Cheese Eliminate the cabbage in the above
recipe, and the previous potato measurements. Instead, grate two
potatoes, add flour, and proceed with cooking as in Version #1.
Drain. Meanwhile, brown one stick of butter or margarine with
one-half of a finely diced onion. Watch the butter/oleo carefully, so
that it doesn't burn. It will begin to have very small bubbles on the
surface when it's nearly done. Remove from heat. Pour over haluske.
Add one cup of dry (farmer's?) cottage cheese or one cup drained
regular cottage cheese. Add a small amount of salt. Note: Both
recipes improve in flavor by refrigerating them for one day after
they are prepared and before using.

Submitted By PAT STOCKETT   On   12-19-94

