Title: Japanese Vegetables
Categories: Japanese, Vegetable
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
1/4 c  Mirin
1 tb Sugar or honey
1/2 c  Dark soy sauce
1/2 c  Sake
MMMMM-------------------------VEGETABLES------------------------------
1    Green pepper
1/4 lb Small mushrooms
Vegetable oil
Seven-spice powder
2 md Carrots
2 sm Potatoes
2    Onions
4 sm Leeks
Bring the sauce ingredients to boil and then set aside.

Wash and trim the vegetables. Cut the carrots into 1/2 inch slices
and cut the pototoes into small chunks. Peel the onions, then halve
and slice into half-moons. Slice the leeks into 1 1/2 inch lengths.
Cut the pepper into 1 inch squares. Wipe and trim the mushrooms and
remove the stems; cut a cross in each mushroom cap. Soak long bamboo
skewers in water. Thread each type of vegetable separately onto them
or onto barbecue skewers. Simply skewer the carrots, potatoes, leeks,
and green pepper chunks. Lay the onion slices on the table and
carefully slide through a skewer to hold the slices together in neat
half moons. Slide a skewer horizontally through the mushroom caps.
Pat the vegetables with paper towels to ensure that they are
perfectly dry and brush them with oil. Preheat the broiler to very
hot and broil the vegetables for 1 or 2 minutes, turning
occasionally. Brush them thickly with sauce and return to the heat.
Continue to broil, brushing 2 or 3 times with sauce, until they are
tender. Be careful not to overcook the vegetables so that they become
dry. Slide the vegetables off the skewers onto small plates and serve
immediately. Sprinkle with a little seven-spice pepper before eating.
If available, the following foods are delicious cooked in this way,
and very popular in Japan: deep-fried tofu, in cubes; gingko nuts,
shelled, boiled, and peeled; quail's eggs, hard boiled; lotus root,
in thin slices. *seven-spice powder (shichimi togarashi) is a blend
of hot red pepper, ground orange peel, sesame seeds, hemp seeds,
poppy seeds, and ground nori seaweed, precisely seven ingredients to
make a tasty and complex flavor. It is available at most Asian
specialty stores.

Submitted By EARL SHELSBY   On   12-30-94

