Title: Kulich (Russian Easter Coffee Bread)
Categories: Nuts/grains, Bread, Holiday, Ussr
Yield: 1 loaf
MMMMM--------------------------SERVINGS-------------------------------
MMMMM----------------SOURCE: GOURMET MAGAZINE, AP---------------------
The stately cylindrical bread called kulich and the pyramid-shaped
cheese mixture called paskha are intrinsic to the Russian Orthodox
Easter celebration. Shawled matriarchs carry their breads, wrapped in
linen, to the cathedral for blessing. The towering breads are
unwrapped and adorned with a single lighted red taper and sometimes
artificial paper flowers. For the well-to-do Russian, Easter dinner
begins with vodka and such appetite whetters as caviar, liver pate,
and fish in aspic. Next comes ham baked in rye dough or perhaps
sausage, cold duck, and pickles. Ornamenting the table is a basket of
brilliantly decorated eggs- artwork of the children. Concluding the
feast is the kulich, polka-dotted with liqueur-perfumed raisins. It
is joined by the candied fruit-filled paskha, the Russian word for
Easter as well. Traditionally the tall loaf is frosted with a sugar
glaze and letters representing the Cyrillic initials of Christos
voskres, or "Christ is risen." In a small bowl proof 2 envelopes
active dry yeast in 1/4 cup lukewarm milk with 1 teaspoon sugar for
10 minutes. In a large bowl combine 1 1/2 sticks or 3/4 cup butter,
softened and cut into bits, 1/2 cup sugar, 1 tablespoon grated lemon
rind, and 1 teaspoon salt. Stir 2/3 cup scalded milk into the butter
mixture and let the mixture cool until it is lukewarm. Stir in the
yeast mixture and 2 whole eggs and 4 egg yolks, lightly beaten.
Gradually beat in 3 cups flour, or enough to make a soft dough. Turn
the dough out onto a lightly floured surface and knead in about 2
cups flour for 10 minutes, or until the dough is smooth and satiny.
Form the dough into a ball, put it into a buttered bowl, turning it
to coat it with the butter, and let it rise, covered, in a warm place
for 1 1/2 hours, or until it is double in bulk. While the dough is
rising, soak 1/2 cup each of sultanas and black raisins in 1/4 cup
dark rum, heated. Drain the raisins and roll them on paper towels to
dry. Dust them with about 1 tablespoon flour. Punch down the dough
and turn it out onto a lightly floured surface. Knead in thoroughly
but lightly 1/2 cup blanched almonds, lightly toasted and chopped,
and the raisins. Butter a 2-pound coffee tin and fold a double sheet
of foil around the outside of the top of the tin, forming a 2-inch
collar. Shape the dough into a ball and drop it into the tin. Let the
dough rise in a warm place, covered, until it almost reaches the top
of the tin. Bake the kulich in a preheated moderate oven (350-F.) for
50 to 60 minutes, or until a skewer inserted in the center comes out
clean. Turn the kulich out of the tin and let it cool on a rack. In a
small bowl combine 1/2 cup confectioners' sugar, sifted, and 1 1/2
teaspoons milk and spread the glaze over the top of the kulich,
letting it drizzle down the sides. To serve the bread, cut off the
frosted top and arrange it in the center of a large serving platter.
Cut the remaining bread in half lengthwise and then into crosswise
slices. Arrange the slices around the frosted top.

Submitted By SALLIE KREBS   On   12-28-94

