Title: Lasineciai - Bacon Buns
Categories: Ussr, Bread, Pork, Vegetable
Yield: 36 servings
3    Egg yolks
10 tb Unsalted butter; softened
1 lb Bacon, lean; finely shredded
1 c  Onions; finely chopped
1    Egg yolk mixed w/1 tbs cream
1 pk Active dry yeast
1 c  Milk; lukewarm
2 tb Sugar
1 ts Salt
3 c  All-purpose flour
Recipe by: Recipes: Russian Cooking - Foods of the World - Time-Life

Sprinkle the yeast into 1/2 cup of lukewarm milk. Add the sugar and
salt and stir until thoroughly dissolved. Place the mixture in a warm,
draft-free place for 5 to 8 mins, or until mixture has begun to
bubble and has almost doubled in volume. Pour the flour into a large
mixing bowl and make a deep well in the center. Drop in the yeast
mixture, egg yolks, the remaining 1/2 cup of milk and 8 Tbs of butter
and, with a large wooden spoon, slowly stir the flour into the liquid
ingredients. Beat vigorously until a fairly firm dough is formed.
Cover the bowl loosely with a kitchen towel and place it in a warm
draft-free spot for 45 mins to an hour, or until the dough has
doubled in bulk. Then punch the dough down with your fist, cover
loosely, and let it rise another 45 mins, or until it again doubles
in bulk. Meanwhile, prepare the filling. Stirring occasionally, fry
the bacon and chopped onions in a large skillet over moderate heat.
When the bacon has rendered all its fat and the onions are tender and
lightly colored, drain them through a fine sieve. Discard the fat and
set the bacon and onions aside. With a pastry brush, lightly coat 2
cookie sheets with a Tbs of butter each. Cut the dough in half and,
on a lightly floured floured surface, roll each half into a circle
about 1/8 inch thick. With a 2 1/2 to 3 inch cookie cutter, cut out
about 18 rounds of dough. drop 1 tsp of the bacon mixture in the
center of each and fold in the sides of the circle, making a neat
packet. Set the buns, seam-side down, on the cookie sheet, leaving 1
inch between them. Roll and fill the remaining dough similarly. Place
the cookie sheets in a warm, draft-free spot for 15 to 20 mins, or
until the buns almost double in size. Preheat the oven to 375°F. Bake
the buns in the center of the oven for 10 mins, then, with a pastry
brush, coat each bun with the egg yolk and cream mixture. Bake
another 10 mins, or until golden brown. Serve the buns hot; if you
cool them after baking, reheat for 10 mins or so in a 325°F. oven.

from my kitchen to------------------------------->yours..... Dan
Klepach

