Title: Lemon Chicken with Croutons
Categories: Chicken, Main dish, Vegetable
Yield: 4 servings
-halves (about 1 pound)
1/4 t  Salt
1 T  Lemon juice
1 t  All-purpose flour
1/2 t  Chicken-flavored instant
-bouillon
1/4 t  Sugar
2 T  Drained capers
1/4 c  Bottled fat-free Italian
-salad dressing
1/2    Loaf Italian bread (8-ounce
-long loaf)
1/2    Head chicory (abt 8-ounces)
1 ea Head Belgian endive (about
-6 ounces)
1 ea Head radicchio (about 6
-ounces)
3 T  Light corn oil spread,
-divided
1 ea Clove garlic, sliced
4    Boneless chicken breast
MMMMM----------------ABOUT 45 MINUTES BEFORE SERV---------------------
Cut the bread into 1-inch cubes.  Tear the chicory into 2-inch
pieces. Cut the Belgian endive in half lengthwise; place the halves
cut side down and slice thinly lengthwise.  Place the greens in a
large bowl. Heat 2 tablespoons of light corn-oil spread in a 12-inch
nonstick skillet over medium heat.  Cook the bread cubes and garlic
slices, stirring occasionally, until the bread is lightly browned.
Discard the garlic. Remove the croutons to the bowl of salad greens.
Wipe the skillet clean.

In the same skillet over medium-high heat, in 1 tablespoon of light
corn-oil spread, cook the chicken and salt until the chicken is
browned on both sides.  Reduce the heat to medium, cover, and cook
until the chicken is tender and the juices run clear when pierced
with a knife tip. Remove the chicken to a plate and keep warm.

Mix the lemon juice, flour, bouillon granules and sugar in a 1-cup
measuring cup and add enough water to equal 1/2 cup.  Add the capers,
any juices from the chicken on the plate and the lemon juice mixture
to the skillet.  Heat to boiling and boil for 1 minute.

Toss the salad greens and garlic croutons with the fat-free Italian
dressing.  Arrange the salad and chicken on 4 dinner plates and spoon
the lemon sauce over the chicken.

Makes 4 main-dish servings.

Per serving:  290 Calories; 7 g Fat; 65 mg Cholesterol; 1135 mg
Sodium. [Our All-New Light & Easy Cookbook] [Good Housekeeping;
February 1995] Posted by Fred Peters.

Submitted By FRED PETERS   On   01-22-95

