Title: Louisiana Shrimp Puffs
Categories: Crab/shrimp, Appetizer, Cheese/eggs, Pastry
Yield: 1 servings
-finely chopped
1 c  Black olives - finely
-chopped
Salt and pepper to taste
24 ea Small pastry shells - or
-larger ones for entree
Portions
Romano cheese - garnish
Parsley - garnish
3 lb Raw shrimp - peeled
1 c  White wine
2 ea Sticks butter - the real
-stuff! (8 oz.)
1 c  Shallots - chopped
1 c  Celery - chopped
1/2 c  Bell pepper - finely chopped
1 ea Pt whipping cream
8 oz Cream cheese
4 ea Large eggs - boiled,
First, take a heavy aluminum 12-inch skillet and poach the shrimp in
the white wine until they turn pink and tender (this should take
about 4 minutes over medium-high heat).  Then scoop the shrimp from
the poaching wine (but save the wine!), separate them into 2 portions
and place each portion in a bowl to cool.  At this point, leave half
of the shrimp whole and shred the other half into small slivers using
the cutting blade of your food processor. Next, in the same skillet
you used to poach the shrimp, melt the butter and gently saute the
shallots, celery and bell pepper until they soften.  Then pour in the
whipping cream and the poaching wine and stir everything together
until well-blended.  Now over high heat, reduce the cream/wine sauce
to one-half of it original volume -- *stirring constantly*. Next,
drop the shrimp that you shredded into the skillet and simmer it
gently into the sauce for about a minute or two.  Then, little by
little, start adding (and stirring in) the cream cheese. And when
it's all well-blended, season the mixture with the salt and pepper
and remove the skillet from the heat. At this point, toss in the
chopped eggs and the black olives and olf them into the mix
thoroughly. Then, taste for salt and pepper once more, stuff the
mixture into the pastry shells, top each one with a whole shrimp,
sprinkle with parlsey and Romano, and bake in a 375F oven until
bubbly!

Hint from the author:  Of course, the puffs can be served by
themselves as appetizers.

Note from the author:  Make this dish and you'll be surprised at how
something so quick, so easy, and so simple can taste so rich and
fantastic. I'm willing to bet you that this ends up being one of your
all-time favorite party foods!

From "Frank Davis Cooks Naturally N'Awlins" by Frank Davis.

per serving:
Approx. Cook Time: Cholesterol per
Calories
grams per serving:
serving: Marks:

Submitted By MICHELLE BASS   On   01-19-95

