Title: Mexican Jalapeno Chocolate Cream Cake
Categories: Dessert, Cake/cookie, Chocolate, Chilies
Yield: 1 cake
-- at room temperature
1 ts Pure vanilla extract
3/4 c  All-purpose flour
1 ts Cinnamon
1/2 c  Finely ground almonds
-- (blanched)
2 md Jalapeno peppers; seeded,
-- de-ribbed, finely minced
1 pn Salt
4 oz Semisweet chocolate
-- (best-quality)
2 tb Kahlua
-- or other coffee-flavored
-- liqueur
1/2 c  Unsalted butter; softened
3/4 c  Granulated sugar; plus...
1 tb Granulated sugar
3 lg Eggs; separated,
Preheat the oven to 350 F.

Butter a round cake pan, cut a round of wax paper to fit and line the
bottom, and then butter the wax paper.  Set aside.

in a small, heavy saucepan over lowest possible heat, or in the top
of a double boiler set over simmering water, melt the chocolate with
the Kahlua. Stir together until smooth and set aside to cool.

In the large bowl of an electric mixer set on medium speed, cream
together the butter and 3/4 cup sugar until thick and pale yellow.
Still beating, add the egg yolks one at a time, beating well after
each addition, until completely incorporated.  Turn the speed to low
and mix in the chocolate mixture until thoroughly combined.  Blend in
the vanilla.

Add the flour, cinnamon, almonds, and jalapenos and continue beating
until combined well.

In a separate bowl, with a hand or electric mixer, beat the egg
whites with a pinch of salt until they form soft peaks.  Add the
remaining tablespoon sugar and continue beating until soft peaks are
formed. With a rubber spatula, fold one-third of the egg whites into
the chocolate batter until thoroughly combined.  Then fold in the
remaining egg whites gently and continue folding until no streaks of
white are visible.

Pour the batter into the prepared pan and bake in the center of the
oven for 25 minutes.  The cake will seem quite soft and underbaked in
the center.  This is the way it is supposed to be.  Let cool in the
pan on a wire rack to room temperature or for at least 1/2 hour.  Run
a thin, sharp knife around the edge, invert the cake onto a cake
plate or footed cake stand, and peel off the wax paper.

NOTE: This cake can be served plain, dusted with confectioners' sugar
and each serving mounded wtih Kahlua-flavored whipped cream.

Serves 6 to 8

Source: Desserts with a Difference - by Sally and Martin Stone Typed
for you by Karen Mintzias
Submitted By BARRY WEINSTEIN   On   12-25-94

