Title: Pizza Crust By Hand
Categories: Fatfree, Pizza, Bread
Yield: 1 servings
3 1/4 c  Unbleached all-purpose
Flour
1/2 t  Salt
1 c  Warm water (110-115 deg F)
1    Envelope (1/4oz) active dry
Yeast
Here's a Thin Pizza Dough I've been making forever (even before I
became fat-free) with no oil.  Note: I  use a pizza stone or fire
bricks that I purchased from a masonry supply house after I broke my
pizza stone. Leftover slices always crisp up nicely in the toaster
oven the next day for lunch.

Sprinkle yeast over the water and stir gently until dissolved.
Should be a smooth and beige-colored mixture.  If not, throw it out
and start again - check the expiration date on the yeast package.
Put in a warm spot for about 5 minutes (I set it in the microwave).

Put 3 cups of the flour and all the salt in a mixing bowl, stir
together. Make a well in the center of the flour and pour in the
yeast mixture.  Stir from the middle, mixing in flour from the sides
just until a soft dough forms.

Turn dough out onto floured surface.  Dust your hands with flour and
knead gently.  Gradually add the remaining 1/4 cup of flour until
dough is no longer sticky or tacky -  about 5 minutes.  As you knead,
scrape up  bits of dough that stick to the work surface with a metal
dough scraper. Knead 10-15 minutes until dough is smooth, elastic,
and shiny. Knead only until smooth and springy. (Overdoing it makes a
tough crust).

Shape dough into a ball and put in clean bowl (note: don't use a cold
bowl ~ rinse out with warm water and wipe dry). Cover bowl tightly
with plastic wrap and put in draft-free warm place (75-85 degrees F).
It will double in size after about an hour - takes 1-1/2 hours at
lower temperatures.

Press the air bubbles out of the dough (don't "punch" it - be gentle).
Gently shape into a round ball.  Let rest for 10 minutes.  I cover it
with the inverted mixing bowl so that it doesn't dry out.  Roll or
stretch out into pizza shape, cover with favorite toppings and bake
at a high temperature.  If I am going to use especially moist
toppings, I precook the crust for 5-10 minutes.

Makes a 15-16 inch pizza.  Or divide dough into two equal pieces for
two 12-inch round flat pizzas.  Or divide into 18 equal-size portions
for 3-inch appetizer sized pizzas.

Use within 2 hours.  Or press out air bubbles again, shape into round
ball, put in bowl covered with plastic wrap, and set in refrigerator.
Refrigerate up to 24 hours.  Let it come to room temperature before
using.

Will freeze nicely - wrap tightly in plastic and freeze up to 4
months. Before using, thaw in refrigerator 1-2 days or a few hours at
room temperature.

Posted by Redcz@aol.com to the Fatfree Dig. Vol. 12 Issue 18 Nov. 19,
1994. FATFREE Recipe collections copyrighted by Michelle Dick 1994.
Used with permission. Formatted by Sue Smith, S.Smith34,
TXFT40A@Prodigy.com using MMCONV.

