Title: Quenelles De Crevettes (Shrimp Quenelles)
Categories: Seafood, Fish, Crab/shrimp, Main dish, Vegetable
Yield: 6 servings
1 c  Heavy cream
3/4 t  Salt
1/4 t  White pepper
1/8 t  Cayenne pepper
Fish stock (optional)
1/2 lb Shrimp, peel, devein
1/4 lb Sole or flounder fillet
-skinned and cut into 1"
-pieces
2    Egg whites
MMMMM---------------------THICK SHRIMP SAUCE--------------------------
1/3 c  Heavy cream
1 T  Tomato sauce, spiced, reduce
-to 1 teaspoon
2 oz Shrimp, peel, devein, poach
-and dice (about 1/2 cup)
1 1/2 c  Fish veloute sauce
1/3 c  Fish stock
MMMMM---------------------FISH VELOUTE SAUCE--------------------------
2 T  Flour
2 c  Fish stock
2 T  Butter
MMMMM-------------------------FISH STOCK------------------------------
1    Celery rib, diced
1    Boquet garni
2 qt Water
2 c  Dry white wine
2 lb Fish heads, bones and
-trimmings rinsed and broken
1    Onion, sliced
1    Carrot, sliced
1    Leek, sliced
Fish Stock: Place fish, vegetables and boquet garni in a large
non-reactive pot. Add water and bring to a boil over low heat. Skim
the top until no more scum rises then cover the pot and simmer 15
minutes. Add wine and simmer, covered, another 15 minutes. Strain the
stock into a deep bowl through a colander lined with a double layer
of cheesecloth. Cool the stock then cover and refigerate overnight or
until the stock has set to an aspic. Remove fat from the surface.

Fish Veloute Sauce: Melt butter in a heavy saucepan over low heat.
Stir in flour to make a roux and cook, stirring 2-3 minutes. Pour the
stock into the pan, whisking constantly. Raise the heat and continue
to whisk until the sauce comes to a boil. Reduce heat to low and move
the saucepan half off the heat so that liquid on one side of the pan
simmers. A skin of impurities will form on the still side. Remove the
skin periodically with a spoon. Cook the sauce about 40 minutes to
reduce and eliminate the taste of flour.

Thick Shrimp Sauce: Combine the fish veloute sauce, fish stock and
heavy cream in a pan. Over high heat reduce the mixture by one
quarter. Strain it through a fine-meshed sieve. Adjust seasoning and
keep sauce warm over hot water. At serving time stir in tomato sauce
and diced shrimp.

To make Quenelles: Finely grind shrimp and fish in a blender or food
processor. Transfer meat to a bowl. Slowly add egg whites and heavy
cream, mixing continuously. Season the mixture with salt, white
papper and cayenne. Dip a large soupspoon in hot water and scoop up a
heaping amount of the mixture. Using another spoon, round off the
mixture to make an egg-shaped quenelle and place it into a large
buttered saute pan or fireproof cooking dish. Cover the quenelles
with simmering salted water or fish stock. Cover and simmer 3
minutes. Turn the quenelles over, cover and cook another 3 minutes or
until they rise in the cooking liquid. Drain quenelles on paper
towels, arrange in a serving dish and cover each quenelle with shrimp
sauce.

Note: Set the quenelle mixing bowl into a larger bowl filled with ice
and beat the egg white into the mixture a little at a time,
making sure each bit is mixed well before proceeding. Whisk the
heavy cream until soft peaks form, then still working over ice,
beat the cream into the mixture by spoonfulls until ingredients
are throughly mixed.

If the mixture is to properly absorb the cream, the mixture
must
be kept cold during the process.
Submitted By ART BARRON   On   12-30-94

