Title: Quick Tips Sep/oct 94
Categories: Information
Making Yogurt Cheese
Yield: 1 info

1. Pour the yogurt onto a double layer of paper toweling.

2. Gather the paper towels together at the corners, secure them with a
rubber band, and place a chopstick through the rubber band.

3. Suspend the yogurt from the rim of a yogurt carton until it is well
drained (4 to 8 hours).

Removing Fat From Stock

To remove the fat from stock, gently lay a paper towel on the surface
of the stock for a few minutes. When you pick up the paper towel, it
will have absorbed a large proportion of the fat.

Squeezing Moisture From Eggplant

To make eggplant less bitter and give it a denser texture for
cooking, it should be salted, drained for and hour, and then pressed
to squeeze out the moisture. Here's an unusual, but highly effective
way to do this.

1. Place the salted and drained eggplant pieces in a ricer.

2. Press handle to squeeze out excess water.

Extracting the Meat from Avocados

1. After cutting the avocado in half and removing the pit, slice
through the meat, but not the skin, with a paring knife.

2. Rub a rubber spatula around the circumference, just inside the
skin, to loosen the meat, then twist the spatula to pop out the meat.

Moving Cake Layers When making layer
cakes, it is sometimes hard to keep the top layer in one piece while
transferring it into position on top of the bottom layer. Try this.

1. Carefully place the second layer onto a pizza paddle that has been
coated with confectioner's sugar.

2. Gently slide the second layer onto the first layer as you would
slide bread or pizza dough onto oven tiles.

Crushing Garlic and Spices

Use a large smooth stone instead of the blade of a chef's knife to
smash garlic or crush spices.

Measuring Dough Height

Recipes often instruct you to roll dough out to a particular height.
If you estimate "by eye" it can lead to problems later on in the
recipe. Measure the height of dough by rolling out the dough and
sticking a ruler directly into it.

Drying Herbs

Harvest herbs in season and follow these steps:

1. Tie herbs together at the stem end.

2. Place the herbs upside down in a paper bag shut around the bunched
stems.

3. Hang the paper bag in a well-ventilated area. Clothes hangers make
a convenient rack. Using this method, herbs will stay dust-free, and
any leaves that fall from their stems will be caught in the bag.

Making Cookie Crumbs

To crush cookies for cookie crumbs, put the cookies in a plastic bag
and run back and forth over them with a rolling pin until they are
the size called for in your recipe.

Cook's Illustrated September/October 1994
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   12-27-94

