Title: Ricotta Cake Roll
Categories: Dessert, Cake/cookie, Cheese/eggs
Yield: 12 servings
-separate recipe)
2 pt Strawberries
1 c  Frozen light whipped
-topping, thawed
Chocolate shavings and
-lemon leaves for garnish
Unsweetened cocoa, for
-sprinkling
Nonstick cooking spray
1 c  Cake flour (not self-rising)
1 c  Sugar, divided
2 T  Unsweetened cocoa
10 lg Egg whites
1 t  Cream of tartar
1 t  Vanilla extract
1 c  Ricotta filling (see
ABOUT 3 HOURS BEFORE SERVING OR EARLY IN THE DAY: Preheat the oven to
375F. Spray a 10 1/2 by 15 1/2-inch jelly-roll pan with nonstick
cooking spray and line with waxed paper.  Spray the waxed paper.

Stir the cake flour, 1/2 cup of sugar and cocoa in a small bowl with
a fork until well blended.  Set aside. Beat the egg whites, cream of
tartar and vanilla in a large bowl with the mixer at high speed until
soft peaks form. Gradually sprinkle in 1/2 cup of sugar, beating
until the sugar completely dissolves and the sugar stands in stiff
peaks. Gently fold the flour mixture into the eggwhites, using a
rubber spatula.

Spoon the batter into the prepared pan, spreading evenly.  Bake for
15 to 20 minutes or until the top of the cake springs back when
lightly touched with a finger.

Sprinkle a clean cloth towel with cocoa.  When the cake is done,
immediately invert it onto the towel.  Carefully peel the waxed paper
from the cake.  Cut of the crisp edges, if you like.  Start at a
narrow end and roll the cake and towel, jelly-roll fashion.  Place
the cake roll, seam-side down, on a wire rack to cool completely,
about 1 hour. Meanwhile, prepare the Ricotta Filling.  Cover and
refrigerate until ready to use. Unroll the cooled cake and remove the
towel.

Spread the filling over the cake, leaving a 1/2-inch border all
around. Start at the same narrow end and roll the cake up again
without the towel. Place the cake, seam-side down, on a platter.
Refrigerate for 1 hour to set the filling.

To serve, lightly sprinkle the cake roll with cocoa to cover evenly.
Spoon the whipped topping into a decorating bag with a large star tip
and decorate the top of the cake.  Arrange the strawberries on the
platter to serve with each slice of cake.  Garnish the whipped
topping with chocolate shavings and garnish the platter with lemon
leaves, if desired.

Makes 12 servings. Per serving (without chocolate shavings): About 270
Calories; 9 g Fat; 26 mg Cholesterol; 165 mg Sodium. [Our All-New
Light & Easy Cookbook] [Good Housekeeping; February 1995] Posted by
Fred Peters.

Submitted By FRED PETERS   On   01-23-95

