Title: Risotto Pollo Alla Provenzale
Categories: Poultry, Main dish, Italian, Chicken
Yield: 4 servings
1 c  Canned Italian plum tomatoes
Crushed or finely chopped
With their juice
5 c  Chicken broth
1/2 c  Dry white wine or broth
2 tb Unsalted butter
1 tb Oil (prefeerably olive oil)
1/3 c  Onion; finely minced
1 1/2 c  Arborio rice
1 T  Olive oil
2 T  Unsalted butter
1    Clove garlic; finely minced
1/2    Yellow pepper; seeds and
Core removed; cut into thin
Stips
1    Boneless chicken breast;
About 1/2 lb., skin and
Cartilage removed; cut into
Thin strips
Heat the oil and butter in a skillet over moderate heat.  Add the
garlic, yellow perpper, and olives and cook for 5 minutes.  Stir in
the chicken and tomatoes.  Turn the heat to low and simmer slowly
while you prepare the risotto, stirring occassionally.

Bring the broth to a steady simmer in a saucepan on top of the stove.
Heat the butter and oil in a heavy 4-quart casserole over moderate
heat. Add the onion and saute for 1-2 minutes, until it begins to
soften, being careful not to brown it.

Add the rice to the casserole, using a wooden spoon, stir for 1
minute, making sure all the grains are well coated.  Add the wine and
stir until it is completely absorbed.  Begin to add the simmering
broth, 1/2 cup at a time, stirring frequently.  Wait until each
addition is almost completely absorbed before adding the next 1/2
cup, reserving about 1/4 cup to add at the end.  Stir frequently to
prevent sticking.

After approximately 18n minutes, when the rice is tender but still
firm, add the reserved broth and the chicken-tomatoes-olive mixture.
Stir vigorously to combine the rice.  Serve immediately.

VARIATIONS: 1. Add 1 tablespoon balsamic vinegar to the chicken with
the
garlic, pepper, and olives. 2. Prepare recipe, but reserve the
:
yellow pepper.  While the
risotto is cooking, wash the pepper and place it directly
:
over a
low flame on the stove or under the broiler, turning
:
frequently
until the pepper skin has been completely blackened.  Run the
pepper under cold water to remove the charred skin, cut it
:
:
into
halves, and remove the stem, ribs, and seeds. Slice the
:
pepper into
strips and spoon 2 tablespoons of olive oil over them.  Serve
:
the
risotto with yellow pepper strips as a garnish on each
:
serving. Submitted By CAROLE CRONAN   On   12-17-94

