Title: Settler's Homemade yeast, old method
Categories: Bread, Information, Homemade
Yield: 1 servings
HOP-RISING
Boil down two large handfulls of hops, in three quarts of water, till
the hops begin to sink to the bottom of the vessel, which they do
after an hour's fast boiling.  Put about a quart of flour in an
earthen pan, or any convenient vessel, not too shallow, and strain
the liquor, boiling off the fire, into the flour, stirring the batter
quickly as you do so. The flour will thicken up like paste; stir it
as smoothly as you can, then let it stand till blood warm; mix in a
tea cupful of the old stock of barm, and let the vessel stand covered
up near the fire till it begins to show that fermentation has taken
place.  In summer you need only cover the jar or pan; it will rise in
a few hours.  But new barm is not so good as after it has worked for
some days.  A large earthen pitcher tied down from the ari, or a
stone jar with a cover, is best for keeping the rising in. The vessel
should be well cleaned before refilling. HOP-YEAST WITH POTATOES Pare
and wash a dozen good sized potatoes, set them on with about a quart
or three pints of water, with a heaped teaspoonful of salt; boil till
they are soft enough to mix through the water like gruel.  Pour into
your rising-jar or pan, and mix in, as smoothly as you can, flour
enough to make a thick batter; have your hops boiling, as in the
former recipe, stir the strained liquor into your potato and flour
batter, add a large spoonful of sugar, and mix all smoothly; when
cooled down, add a couple of large spoonfuls of rising, to work it.
After it has worked, it is strained into a bottle, and set by for
use.  A larg cupful will raise about ten pounds of flour. Some
persons give the preference to this potato barm, but either of the
recipes is good for fermenting bread. SUGAR-YEAST Boil two handfuls
of hops in a gallon of water for an hour; strain off and add two
table spoons of salt. Mix in one pound of flour and two pounds of
soft sugar; stir all together when milk warm; add two spoonfuls of
good yeast; Let it rise for two days, then bottle and cork lightly,
and put in a cool cellar. A large cupful will raise about ten pounds
of flour, or more. LEAVEN-CAKES Boil three ounces of hops in three
gallons of water, till reduced to a quart. While boiling hot, strain
the liquor into one quart of rye-meal, stirring it well. Let it cool,
add a cupful of good yeast.  Whe it has begun to work well, stir in
as much Indian meal as will thicken the mass to a stiff dough. Knead
it upon a board well, roll it into cakes about an inch in thickness,
and let them dry on a clean board in the sun, for two or three days.
Do not leave them out after suset.  Two inches square of this
yeast-cake dissolved in warm water, and thickened with a
tablespoonful of flour, will raise one or two good sized loaves.  If
hung up inbags in a dry room, this leaven will keep good for many
months. ALL AMERICAN-YEAST Boil very soft and mash four large
potatoes, mash them very fine, pour over them one pint of boiling
water, when only warm, stir in two large spoons of flour, two of
molasses, a tea-spoonful of salt, and a cup of good yeast. This must
be used fresh; the above will raise a baking of bread for a family.
Set in a sponge over night. Origin: The Canadian Settler's Guide,
written in 1855 Shared by: Sharon Stevens

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   01-12-95

