Title: Settler's Starch
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 servings
No Ingredients Found
As I have before observed, it is a great object with the Canadian
settlers to manufacture everything they consume, if it be
practicable. The careful emigrant's wife buys no starch; but makes
all she uses, either from potatoes or bran.  Potato starch is the
fine flour that is obtained from the potato by grating it down in
water. Pare some large potatoes; white skinned are preferable to red
or purple; grate them down to a pulp on a coarse rasp, or the
large-holed side of a bread grater; let the pulp fall into a pan of
clean cold water.  When you have reduced all your potatoes by
grating, stir the mass well up with your hand; lay a clean coarse
cloth in your colander over a vessel, and strain the whole mass;
squeezing it till the pulp is quite dry.  The liquor that remains
after the straining must then be left to settle for an hour or more,
or till it looks clear and shows a sediment at the bottom. It may
then be poured off, and a second water put on; stir this, and leave
it again for some hours. A third water should be added; pouring off
the former one as before; three waters is generally sufficient. The
last time you pour the water off, you will perceive a slightly
discoloured crust on the top of your starch, or some of the fine
fibrous matter that has passed through; remove it with a clean spoon,
and the pure, spotless, white substance below is the starch. This
must be taken out, and spread to dry in a warm, sunny place, stirring
it very frequently, till the whole is perfectly dry.  It may then be
put in paper bags, and hung up in a dry room.  Be sure that it is
quite dry before bagging it.  Not only does this make the clearest
and best of starch for muslins and linens, but is a good substitute
for arrow-root, boiled in milk, either for invalids or babes; and is
valuable in places where delicacies for sick person cannot easily be
procured. Origin: The Canadian Settler's Guide, written in 1855
Shared by: Sharon Stevens. Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   01-07-95

