Title: Shepherd's Pie with Chicken & Fresh Tarragon
Categories: Main dish, Casserole, Chicken, Potato, Vegetable
Yield: 6 servings
Enough milk to thin to a
-thick puree
Salt and pepper to taste
*-----Cream Sauce:*
1/2 c  Butter
1/4 c  Flour
2 c  Chicken stock
1 c  Milk
1/4 c  Fresh tarragon, chopped
1/2 ts Nutmeg
1/8 c  Sherry
Pastry for 2 single 9-inch
Pie crusts
Salt and pepper to taste
2 qt Water
1 md To lg whole chicken
2    Sprigs parsley
1    Onion, chopped (save the
-skin)
2 tb Butter
1    Raw carrot, cut into chunks
1/2 c  Fresh peas
1/2 c  Fresh snap beans, sliced
1/2 c  Carrots, diced
*-----Potato Topping:*
2 lb Boiling potatoes
1/4 c  Butter
1/2 c  Sour cream
Source:Cooking from the Garden, Rosalind Creasy Serves: 6 - 8, makes
two pies (one for dinner and one for the freezer)

Preheat oven to 375 F.

Roll out pie crusts, line 2 9-inch pie pans, and put in refrigerator
until ready to fill.

In a large pot, place chicken in 2 quarts water, cover, and simmer for
about 30 - 45 minutes until chicken is done. Remove chicken, drain,
and cool. Skin and bone chicken, saving remains. Cut meat into
bite-sized pieces and set aside. To make stock add chicken skin,
bones, giblets, parsley, onion skin, and carrot chunks to remaining
broth in pot. Simmer uncovered and reduce to create a rich broth,
adding water every once in a while if it boils down too fast. (you
can do this easily in a crock pot) You'll need to end up with 2 Cups
of chicken broth (the more flavor you can extract from the carcass,
the more intense the flavor will be in finished pie.) Drain and set
aside.

While chicken is simmering, prepare vegetables. Put 2 Tbls. butter and
chopped onion in a frying pan and cook over medium heat for about 5
minutes until onions are tender and translucent. Steam diced carrots,
green beans, and peas for 5 - 8 minutes and set aside (use shorter
time if you like crunchy vegetables).

Peel, boil, and mash potatoes. Mix in butter and sour cream, add
enough milk to bring mixture to spreading consistency, and set aside.

Prepare cream sauce by melting butter and whisking in flour. Cook for
2 - 3 minutes, stirring constantly. Slowly add milk and then chicken
stock, whisking constantly as sauce thickens. Stir in tarragon,
nutmeg, sherry, salt, and pepper. Add steamed vegetables, onion, and
cooked chicken to cream sauce. Allow to cool. When cool, put
vegetable and chicken mixture in pie shells. Cover with mashed potato
mixture. Smooth with wet knife.

Cover one pie with aluminum foil and freeze. Bake remaining one for 45
minutes or until crust is brown. Let sit for 15 minutes, garnish with
paprika and chopped chives if you wish, slice, and serve. For the
frozen pie, defrost, and then cook and serve as above.

<< Joyce  Monschein >>
Submitted By BARRY WEINSTEIN   On   12-26-94

