Title: Sigara Boregi (Deep-Fried Cheese-Filled Pastry "Cigarette
Categories: Middle east, Turkish, Side dish, Cheese/eggs
Yield: 14 sigaras
12 tb Butter; cut into 1/4 inch
;bits and clarified
2    Egg; slightly beaten
1/3 c  Milk
Oil for deep frying;
;vegetable or shortening
1 lb Tulum; (Turkish sheep's milk
;cheese or feta cheese
1/2 c  Parsley; finely chopped and
;preferably flat leaf
14    Filo sheets; pastry, each
;about 16 inches long and 12
;inches wide
Crumble the cheese into a small bowl, add the parsley, and mash them
together with a fork until blended into a smooth paste.
Assemble each sigara in the following fashion:  Using a pastry
brush, coat one sheet of filo pastry lightly but evenly with a
teaspoon or so of the clarified butter.  Fold the sheet in half
lengthwise to make a two layered rectangle about 16 inches long and 6
inches wide.
Place 2 tablespoons of the cheese mixture in the center of one
short side of the rectangle, and, with the back of a spoon or a metal
spatula, spread the cheese into a strip about 3 inches long and 1/2
inch wide reaching to within about 1/2 inch of the edge of the pastry.
Brush the outside edges of the pastry all around with another
teaspoon or so of the butter, fold the long edges toward the center
by about 1/2 inch and brush them again with butter.  Fold the short
end over the cheese filling and then roll up the pastry into a tight
cylinder. The finished sigara will be about 5 or 6 inches long and 1
inch in diameter. Stir the beaten eggs and milk together, and brush
the top, sides and ends of each pastry with the mixture.
In a heavy 12 inch skillet with a deep frying thermometer, or an
electric skillet, heat 1 or 2 inches of oil or shortening until it
reaches a temperature or 375 degrees.  Fry 4 or 5 sigaras at a time,
turning them once with a slotted spoon, for about 3 minutes, or until
golden brown on all sides.  As they brown, transfer them to paper
towels to drain. Serve the sigaras hot, as a first course.

15 of 117

Source: Time Life Series: Middle Eastern Cooking  "circa '69"

MMed by: earl.cravens@salata.com
Submitted By EARL CRAVENS   On   01-06-95 (2100)

