Title: Sophisticated Stew
Categories: Beef, Soup/stew
Yield: 6 servings
MMMMM---------------------FROM: MARGE CLARK--------------------------
-pieces
3 lb Lean round or chuck cut
-into large bite sized
paper bag of flour seasoned with salt & pepper 4 strips of bacon 2
cloves of garlic, finely minced 1 oz brandy, warmed 12 small whole
fresh mushrooms 1 cup condensed beef bouillion 1 1/2 cups dry red
wine 12 samll peeled white onions 12 small carrots, sliced 4 slightly
bruised peppercorns 4 whole cloves 1 bay leaf, crumbled 2 Tblsp
chopped fresh parsley 1/4 tsp dried marjoram 1/4 tsp thyme Shake beef
cubes i the flour, a few at a time until well covered. In cast iron
skillet, fry the bacon until it begins to brown but is not crisp. Cut
bacon into one inch pieces after cooking. Place in earthenware or
heavy glass baking dish. cook the garlic a little in the bacon fat.
Then add the floured beef cubes and brown quickly on all sides,
turning often. Pour the brandy into the skillet, light it, and when
the flame dies out, remove the meat and garlic and put them in the
casserole. put the mushrooms in skillet and brown lightly.  add to
casserole. Put the bouillion and ONE cup of the red wine into
skillet, bring to a boil and stir from the bottom to loosen the
particles, using a wire whip. Pour the liquid into the casserole. Add
to the casserole the onions, carrots, peppercorns, cloves, bayleaf,
parsley, marjoram, and thyme. Now pour over the casserole the
additional 1/2 cup of red wine. Cover the casserole tightly and bake
at 300 for two hours.  Cool and place in refrigerator, covered. When
ready the next day, spoon some of the liquid up from the bottom, over
the meat, and again place the casserole in a 300 oven for one hour,
or until piping hot.  Serves 6 (my note: This version of stew is a
lot of work, but is TRULY company fare! Either homemade bread, or the
gnocci from vol 1, make a good accompaniment. If you want a salad,
I'd serve it as a first course.) Recipe from Make It Now, Bake It
Later, Vol 2

Submitted By PAT STOCKETT   On   12-30-94

