Title: Stir-Frying Techniques
Categories: Information, Stir fry
Yield: 1 info  Stir-frying is the cooking of small pieces of food in a pan over high
heat. The food cooks very quickly, so you must stir almost constantly
to heat it evenly and keep it from sticking. Because of this, it is
important to choose firm seafood that will hold together when stirred
and not fall apart as it cooks. You should avoid overcrowding the
pan, or the food will release liquid and poach rather than fry. Don't
worry about fitting all the food in the pan at one time; ingredients
can be stir-fried in batches and assembled just before serving.

A wok is ideal for stir-frying because its deep and evenly sloping
sides make easy work of stirring the ingredients. The Chinese-style
wok shovel has a gently rounded edge that easily scoops and stirs
food in a wok. If you don't have a wok, use a large skillet,
preferably one with sloping sides. Any long-handled spoon can be used
for stirring.

Stir-frying requires little oil ÄÄ and that means little added fat.
The combination of high heat, small pieces of food and constant
stirring ensures that the food cooks evenly without sticking. Because
a variety of vegetables can be stir-fried with seafood, all you need
is rice to make a complete meal.

How to Stir-Fry

1. Cut the seafood into even bite-sized pieces along with whatever
vegetables you will be cooking. Scallops and shrimp can be cooked
whole unless they are very large, in which case you will want to cut
them into pieces to ensure the cook quickly and evenly.

2. Heat a wok or large slope-sided skillet over high heat, add the
oil and allow to heat. Add the vegetables and cook very quickly,
stirring constantly. When just crisp-tender, transfer to a bowl and
set aside.

3. If needed, add more oil to the pan, then reheat. Add the fish
pieces and cook, stirring constantly, until lightly browned on the
outside and opaque in the center, 1 to 5 minutes depending on the
size of the pieces.

4. Return the vegetables to the pan, add any sauce or seasoning and
toss just to evenly mix and coat.

5. Spoon the fish, vegetables and sauce over rice and serve.

Simply Seafood Fall 1994
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   01-13-95

