Title: Stuffed Soft-Shell Crabs and Jambayala
Categories: Cajun/creol, Crab/shrimp, Main dish
Yield: 6 servings
MMMMM---------------------TO STUFF THE CRABS--------------------------
3 c  Stale bread crumbs
8 oz Fresh mushrooms - finely
-chopped
3 ea Egg yolks
1 ea Jar diced pimientos (3-oz.
-jar)
Flour for dredging
2 c  Buttermilk
4 ea Eggs - beaten
3 c  Crackermeal
1/2 ga Peanut oil
6 ea Fresh jumbo soft-shell
-crabs (uncooked)
1 ea Bunch green onions -
-finely chopped
1 ea Clove garlic - minced
1 lb Lump crabmeat
1 lb Small shrimp - peeled and
-finely chopped
1/2 c  Dry white wine
1 T  Salt
1 T  Cayenne pepper
1 T  White pepper
MMMMM-------------------------JAMBALAYA------------------------------
3/4 c  Tomato sauce
2 c  Raw rice
1 t  Salt
1 1/4 t  Cayenne pepper
2 1/2 c  Water
1 lb Raw shrimp - peeled and
-deveined
3 T  Shortening
2 T  All-purpose flour
1 1/2 c  Chopped onions
1/2 c  Chopped green bell pepper
1 c  Chopped celery
1 ea Clove garlic - minced
1 cn Whole tomatoes (1-lb. can)
CRABS: Remove the apron and lungs from each crab, then lift the
shoulders and remove gills. Leave the top flaps on. Saute green
onions, garlic, crabmeat and shrimp in white wine. Add salt, cayenne
pepper, white pepper and bread crumbs. Add mushrooms and stir in egg
yolks and pimiento. Mix gently. Allow to come to room temperature,
then chill stuffing for at least 1 hour or until firm. Carefully lift
the shoulders on each crab and gently stuff the cavity with the
mixture. Press the shoulders down to hold in the stuffing.  Be
careful not to break off any of the legs of the crab. Lay crabs on a
heavy baking sheet; sprinkle with salt and cayenne pepper. Dredge
them in flour, seasoned with a little salt, cayenne pepper and white
pepper, then gently dip the crabs in a wash made of buttermilk and
the beaten eggs.  Dredge each crab in crackermeal, brading each leg
individually with the meal. In a deep pot, heat the peanut oil to
350F. To fry the crabs, hold by the body, allowing the legs to dip
into the hot oil for a few seconds before dropping the whole crab
into the oil. This will make the legs stand up rather than lie flat.
Crabs will float to the surface when cooked.

JAMBALAYA: Heat shortening. Add flour and stir over medium heat until
golden brown. Add onions, green pepper, celery and garlic. Cook
slowly in roux until vegetables are transparent, stirring often. Add
whole tomates and tomato sauce and cook until an oil film rises to
the top. Stir in raw rice, salt, cayenne pepper and water.  Cover and
cook over a low heat until rice is tender.  Add more water if mixture
becomes dry.

Serve the crabs, legs up, over a bed of jambalaya.  Ladle a
tablespoon of Creollaise Sauce over the crabs.  Garnish with a wedge
of lemon and fried parsley.

Source: Marcelle Bienvenu

per serving:
Approx. Cook Time: Cholesterol per
Calories
grams per serving:
serving: Marks:

Submitted By MICHELLE BASS   On   12-31-94

