Title: Tunnel of Love Cake
Categories: Cake/cookie, Chocolate
Yield: 12 servings
1 1/2 t  Baking soda
1 t  Salt
1/2 c  Salad oil
7 ea Egg yolks
2 t  Vanilla
1/2 t  Cream of tartar
1/2 c  Egg whites (7-8)
1/2 c  Sifted unsweetened dark
-cocoa
1/4 c  Boiling water
1 3/4 c  Sifted cake flour
1 3/4 c  White sugar
Preheat the oven to 325F.  In large bowl, let egg whites warm to room
temperature.  Place cocoa in small bowl, add boiling water.  Stir
cocoa until smooth and allow to cool.  In second large bowl, sift
flour, sugar, salt, soda. Make a well in the centre, pour salad oil,
egg yolks, vanilla and cooled cocoa mixture.  Beat until smooth.
Sprinkle cream of tartar over the egg whites, and beat at high speed
until stiff peaks form. Do not underbeat.  Pour batter over egg
whites, and with rubber spatula gently fold batter and whites until
blended.  Turn batter into greased 10" tube pan.  Bake for 65-70
minutes or until the cake tester inserted in middle comes out clean.
Invert pan over neck of bottle and let cake cool completely.
Carefully loosen with spatula and remove from pan. CHOCOLATE CREAM
FILLING: 3 cups heavy cream 1-1/2 cups confectioner's sugar 3/4 cup
unsweetened dark cocoa 2 tsp vanilla extract 1 tsp unflavored gelatin
(dissolved in 2 tbsp cold water) Beat cream until it just starts to
thicken. Add sugar, cocoa and vanilla extract. Beat until stiff.
Sprinkle gelatin over 2 tbsp cold water to soften it. Heat over hot
water, stirring until gelatin is dissolved Cool and add to whip cream
mixture, folding in carefully. PREPARE CAKE FOR FILLING: Slice 1"
crosswise from top of cake, and set aside. With sharp knife, carve a
tunnel in cake, being careful to leave a 1" border around centre hole
and sides. With a spoon, remove cake from this area, being sure to
leave 1" thick base. Reserve 1-1/2 cups of crumbled cake.  Measure
2-1/2 cups of chocolate cream in piping bag and use this to fill
cavity of tunnel. The top of the cake then can be placed back on the
filled portion of the cake. Mix cup of chocolate cream with crumbled
cake and use to fill centre hole of cake. Frost up the sides and top
of remaining cake with the rest of the chocolate cream.  Refrigerate
until well chilled.  Makes 12-16 servings. BEFORE PUTTING THE TOP OF
THE CAKE BACK ON.....  You can add other surprises the the Tunnel of
Love Cake. Take 1/2 bag of frozen strawberries, add 1/2 cup orange
juice and sugar to taste, and bring to boil on stove. Soften 2 tbsp
of gelatin in 1/4 cup cold water, and add to strawberries, stirring
until dissolved. Allow this mixture to cool before adding inside the
cake. Origin: Newspaper clipping Shared by: Sharon Stevens, Jan/95.

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   01-24-95

