Title: Using Food Exchanges
Categories: Information, Low-cal/fat, Diabetic
Yield: 1 servings
NO INGREDIENTS
The food exchange system was developed by the American Dietetic
Association and the American Diabetes Association for people with
diabetes and others on special diets. However, the system is based on
good nutrition principles that apply to everyone, and can be a weight
management alternative to counting calories. Within each food
exchange group, you can choose among a variety of foods with similar,
though not identical, caloric and nutrient values. If you meet your
food exchange "budget" without going over, you're assured of a well
balanced diet within calorie limits.

FIGURING YOUR DAILY NEEDS:

Most moderately active people need to consume about 15 calories per
pound to maintain weight, so a 150lb. woman needs 2,250 calories per
day. Because a pound of body fat contains about 3,500 calories,
trimming calorie intake by 500 calories per day will provide a 1lb.
per week weight loss. A 150lb. woman could eat about 1,750 calories
and shed 1lb. a week. To shed 2lbs. (the maximum wekly weight loss
recommended by nutritions, she should eat 1,000 less, a total intake
of 1,250 calories.

FOOD EXCHANGES FOR MEAL PLANS OF VARYING CALORIE COUNTS:

Calories:    Meat:    Bread:   Vegetable:   Fruit:   Milk:   Fat:

4
2
1,200
5 8 3 4

If your calorie needs fall between these plans, start with the lower
calorie plan and add exchanges to equal your daily calorie target.
Figure:

Bread: 80 calories
Lean Meat: 55 calories
Vegetable: 25 calories
:
:
:
Fruit: 60 calories
Milk (skim): 90 calories
:
FAT!: 45 calories

When you add exchanges, add fruit, vegetable or bread exchanges to
hold down the percentage of calories from fat.

EXCHANGE GROUPS:

Meat: In addition to red meat, the meat exchange list includes
poultry, fish, eggs, cheese, peanut butter and tofu because they are
excellent protein sources. One exchange provides about 7 grams of
protein. Most meat exchanges are based on 1oz. of cooked meat; 4oz.
of raw meat equals about 3oz. of cooked meat.

Bread: One serving of the foods on this list, (cereals, grains,
pastas, dried beans, starchy vegetables and breads) has about 80
calories, 15 grams of carbohydrate, 3 grams of protein and a small
amount of fat. although serving sizes vary, one exchange is equal to
1oz. of bread or 1/2 cup of cereal, cooked pasta or rice.

Vegetable: Enjoy vegetables often because they're low calorie, no fat
sources of vitamins, minerals and fiber. One vegetable exchange
contains about 5 grams of carbohydrate, 2 grams of protein, 25
calories, and 2-3 grams of dietary fiber. One vegetable exchange is
equal to 1/2 cup of cooked vegetables or 1 cup raw. Some vegetables,
such as dried beans, corn, peas and potatoes are high in starch so
they are counted as bread exchanges rather than vegetables.

Fruit: Fruits are a good source of potassium and vitamins A and C, yet
contain no fat or protein. One fruit exchange suppllies about 60
calories and 15 grams of carbohydrate. Fresh, dried and frozen fruits
are good dietary fiber sources. Most fruit exchanges equal 1/2 cup
fresh or canned fruit or fruit juice or 1/4 cup dried fruit.

Milk: Milk and milk products are excellent sources of calcium. One
milk exchange contains about 12 grams of carbohydrate and 8 grams of
protein. However, the amounts of fat and calories differ per
exchange. Skim milk products are lowest in calories; lowfat have
slightly more calories and fat. When you're watching your weight,
choose low and non fat dairy products.

Fat: Each fat exchange provides about 5 grams of fat and 45 calories.
A fat exchange is equal to 1 teaspoon of margarine or oil, or 1
tablespoon of salad dressing.

Free Foods: These foods have fewer than 20 calories per serving and
include salad greens, some vegetables and fruits, most condiments,
and beverages such as coffee, tea, mineral water and sugar free
carbonated drinks.

Source: BH&G Low Calorie and Low Fat Recipes Spring 95 Entered by
Carolyn Shaw 1-95
Submitted By CAROLYN SHAW   On   01-22-95

