Title: Vegetable Terrine
Categories: Casserole, Vegetable, Vegetarian, Main dish
Yield: 8 servings
MMMMM----------------------VEGETABLE LAYERS---------------------------
16 oz Red Bell Pepper, in strips
12 oz Carrots, julienned
14 1/2 oz Can Artichoke Hearts,
Drained and quartered
1 3/4 oz Dried Shiitake Mushrooms
7 lg Savoy Cabbage Leaves
12 oz Bunch Spinach, stemmed
12 oz Asparagus, trimmed & peeled
MMMMM---------------------------BATTER--------------------------------
1 ts Dried Tarragon
2    Shallots, chopped
Salt and Pepper
4    Eggs
1/2 c  Buttermilk
1 tb Fresh Parsley, chopped
1 ts Dried Thyme
MMMMM------------------------TOMATO SAUCE-----------------------------
1 pn Cayenne Pepper
1    Clove Garlic, chopped
Salt and Pepper
1 lg Tomato, peeled, seeded and
Chopped
1/4 c  Buttermilk
1 tb Tomato Paste
Vegetable Layers: In a small bowl, combine dry mushrooms and hot
water to cover. Let stand 30 minutes. Drain. While mushrooms are
rehydrating, bring a large pot of water to boil. Blanch vegetables in
seperate batches in boiling water. Blanch cabbage leaves 3 minutes,
spinach leaves 1 minute, asparagus and red pepper strips 3 minutes,
and carrots 4 minutes. Plunge vegetables into ice water after
blanching. Drain.

Pat all blanched vegetables, mushrooms, and artichokes dry between 2
to 3 layers of paper towels, applying gentle pressure to squeeze out
as much liquid as possible. (Spinach leaves should be opened out flat
to assume the original shape.)

Batter: In a medium bowl, combine eggs, 1/2 cup buttermilk, parsley,
thyme, tarragon, shallots, and salt and pepper to taste. Whisk until
blended. This batter is overseasoned because it will season all the
vegetables in the terrine.)

Assembly of Terrine: Generously butter a 9x5x3" loaf pan. Using a
triangular-shaped cut, remove 1-2" of hard white stem from each
cabbage leaf to make leaves more flexible. Line sides, then bottom of
pan with cabbage leaves, overlapping the leaves generously to form a
leakproof "shell" and allowing leaves to extend well over the rim of
pan. (The tops of the cabbage leaves will be folded over the top of
the finished terrine.) Pour 1/2 cup batter over cabbage in bottom of
pan.

Arrange asparagus spears lengthwise in pan, packing spears tightly
together. Add 2 layers of red pepper strips places crosswise in pan.
Pour in a little more batter, pressing peppers down gently. Layer
mushrooms over peppers. Layer carrots lengthwise in pan. Pour in a
little more batter, pressing carrots down gently. (Pressing down each
layer will raise the level of the batter.)

Larer half the spinach leaves over carrots. Add a layer of artichoke
hearts over spinach, then a little more batter. Gently press down
artichoke hearts. Top with a layer of remaining batter and pressing
down each layer. Fold ends of cabbage leaves over top of terrine.
Preheat oven to 350øF. Cover loaf pan with buttered parchment paper
cut to fit inside edge of pan. Place loaf pan in a 13x9x2" baking
pan. Pour hot water around loaf pan to depth of 1". Bake at 350øF for
2 hours until firm. Remove from water bath. Cook on rack (still
covered with parchment paper) 2 hours. Refrigerate, still covered,
overnight.

Tomato Sauce: In blender, combine chopped tomato, 1/4 cup buttermilk,
tomato paste, cayenne pepper, garlic, and salt and pepper to taste.
Blend until smooth.

To Serve: Loosen edges of terrine with knife. Invert on a serving
platter. Cut cold terrine in crosswise slices with a serrated knife.
Spread a thin layer of tomato sauce on each serving plate. Arrange
slices of terrine over sauce.

Source: Victoria Magazine, January 1994 Typed by Katherine Smith
Cyberealm BBS and home of Kook-Net, Watertown, NY 315-786-1120

