Title: Vegetarian Stuffed Cabbage
Categories: Vegetable, Main dish, Vegetarian
Yield: 4 servings
1 cn White kidney beans
(canellini), rinced and
-drained (16-19 ounces)
1 cn Sliced water chestnuts,
-drained and finely chopped
(8 ounces)
2 cn Stewed tomatoes (14 1/2
-ounce cans)
1 ts Sugar
2 lb Savoy cabbage (1 large head)
1 T  Salad oil
1 md Red pepper, finely chopped
1 md Yellow pepper, finely
-chopped
1 md Onion, finely chopped
1 tb Seasoned rice vinegar
1 tb Reduced-sodium soy sauce
1 ts Minced peeled fresh
-ginger root
Discard the tough outer leaves from the cabbage; remove the core with
a sharp knife.  Fill an 8-quart saucepan three quarters fulkl with
water; bring to a boil over high heat.  Place the cabbage, cut side
up, into the water.  As the outer leaves soften slightly, use 2 large
spoons or forks to gently separate the leaves.  When about three
fourths of the leaves have been separated from the cabbage, remove
the remainder of the head form the saucepan and set aside.  Boil the
separated cabbage leaves, covered, for 10 to 12 minutes or until they
are very tender. Drain in a colander. Trim the tough center rib from
each cabbage leave with a sharp knife. Reserve 8 large leaves for
rolls (if the leaves are not very large, you may need to reserves 2
leaves for each roll).  Coarsely slice enough of the remaining
cabbage leaves to make 2 cups for the filling. Reserve the rest of
the cabbage for another use. Heat the salad oil in a 12-inch nonstick
skillet over medium-high heat. Add the peppers and onion; cook for
about 8 to 10 minutes or until tender and lightly browned. Add the
sliced cabbage, rice vinegar, soy sauce and ginger; cook for 5
minutes. Stir in the kidney beans and water chestnuts. Cool the
cabbage filling slightly. On the center of each reserved cabbage
leaf, place a scant half cup of the filling. Fold the 2 sides of the
cabbage leaf over the filling, overlapping the edges, and roll up
jellyroll fashion. In the same skillet over high heat, heat the
stewed tomatoes and sugar, stirring to break up the tomatoes. Add the
cabbage rolls and reduce the heat to low. Cover and simmer for 10 to
15 minutes until the cabbage rolls are heated through. Makes 4
main-dish servings.

Per serving: 240 Calories; 5 g Fat; 0 mg Cholesterol; 1045 mg Sodium.
[Our All-New Light & Easy Cookbook] [Good Housekeeping; February
1995] Posted by Fred Peters.

Submitted By FRED PETERS   On   01-23-95

