Title: Viennese Marzipan Bars
Categories: German, Cake/cookie, Chocolate
Yield: 24 servings
MMMMM----------------CRUST:  1 CUP SIFTED ALL PUR---------------------
1 ea Egg yolk
1 T  Milk
1/2 t  Baking soda
2 2/3 ea Ounces unsalted butter
Adjust a rack one third up from the bottom of the oven and preheat to
375 degrees.  Butter the bottom and sides of an 8-inch square cake
pan. Sift together flour, baking soda and set aside.  In small bowl,
cream butter, add sugar, egg, and milk, beating well after each
addition. Gradually add dry ingredient, beating only until mixture
holds together. Place dough in prepared pan.  With floured
fingertips, press firmly to make even layer. Bake for 12 to 15
minutes or until barely colored around the edges. The crust will sink
slightly when it is removed from the oven. Meanwhile prepare the
following filling: Filling: 1/4 cup apricot preserves 4 oz (generous
3/4 cup) blanched almonds 2/3 cup granulated sugar 1/4 teaspoon salt
1 jumbo egg plus 1 egg white 1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract scant 1/4
teaspoon almond extract few drops of green food coloring In a small
bowl, stir preserves to soften them.  Set aside. Grind almonds to
fine powder and place in a bowl.  Add sugar and salt and stir with
rubber spatula to mix. Add egg, egg white, vanilla and almond
extracts and 2-3 drops of food coloring (to make pale sea green).
Stir to mix throroughly. Spread preserves over the hot crust, leaving
a 1/2 inch border - it will be a thin layer of preserves.  Top with
almond filling and spread to make even layer. Bake at 375 degrees for
25 minutes or until the top of the cake barely springs back when
slightly pressed with fingertip. Cool completely and then prepare
following glaze. Chocolate Glaze: 1/2 cup confectioner's sugar 1/2 oz
unsweetened chocolate 1 tablespoon unsalted butter 1/2 teaspoon
vanilla extract 1 tablespoon boiling water Melt chocolate and butter
in covered double boiler on moderate heat. Stir smooth. Stir in
strained sugar, vanilla and water, and stir again until completely
smooth. Pour glaze over cooled cake and spread evenly.  It will be a
thin layer. Leave cake in pan for another hour, then with sharp knife
cut around sides to release. Cut cake into quarters, and with wide
metal spatula, transfer to cutting board. Cut in portions. These
little cakes are best after they stand for a few hours. Place on
serving dish, cover with plastic wrap and let stand at room
temperature. Makes 24 small bars From: Source unknown From the files
of Karin Brewer

Submitted By KARIN BREWER   On   01-03-95

