Title: Walnut-Filled Sweet Bread
Categories: German, Bread, Holiday, Nuts/grains
Yield: 1 loaf
MMMMM--------------------------SERVINGS-------------------------------
MMMMM----------------SOURCE: GOURMET/DECEMBER 198---------------------
For the dough: 2 1/2 teaspoons active dry yeast, 1/2 cup lukewarm
milk, 6 tablespoons granulated sugar, 4 1/3 cups all-purpose flour, 3
large eggs, beaten lightly, 3/4 stick (6 tablespoons) unsalted
butter, softened, 1 teaspoon grated lemon rind, 1/4 teaspoon salt For
the filling: 1 cup sour cream, 1/2 cup plus 1 tablespoon honey, 1
teaspoon vanilla, 5 cups walnuts, chopped fine, 3 large egg whites at
room temperature, a pinch of cream of tartar 3 large egg yolks beaten
with 2 tablespoons confectioners' sugar and 1/4 teaspoon cinnamon,
melted unsalted butter and confectioners' sugar for brushing and
dusting the bread Make the dough: In a large bowl proof the yeast in
the milk with 1 teaspoon of the sugar and 1 teaspoon of the flour for
15 minutes, or until it is foamy. Add the remaining sugar, 2 cups of
the flour, the eggs, the butter, the lemon rind, and the salt and
beat the mixture until it is combined well. Stir in 2 more cups of
the flour and knead the dough on a floured surface, incorporating
more of the remaining flour as necessary to keep it from sticking,
for 8 to 10 minutes, or until it is smooth and elastic. Put the dough
in a buttered bowl, turn it to coat it with the butter, and let it
rise, covered with plastic wrap, in a warm place for 1 hour, or until
it is double in bulk. Make the filling: In a large bowl whisk
together the sour cream, the honey, heated, and the vanilla and stir
in the walnuts. In a bowl beat the egg whites with the cream of
tartar and a pinch of salt until they hold stiff peaks and fold them
into the walnut mixture. Punch down the dough and on an unfloured
surface roll and stretch it into a 28- by 20-inch rectangle. Brush
the dough with the egg yolk mixture and spread it with the filling,
leaving a 1-inch border on all sides. Beginning with a long side roll
up the dough tightly jelly-roll fashion and fit it into a
well-buttered 10- by 4 1/2-inch tube pan, overlapping the ends and
pressing the seam against the tube. Let the dough rise, covered with
a dish towel, in a warm place for 45 minutes to 1 hour, or until it
is almost double in bulk. Bake the bread in the middle of a preheated
moderately hot oven (375-F.), brushing it with the melted butter
every 15 minutes, for 1 hour, or until it sounds hollow when the
bottom is tapped. Let the bread cool in the pan on a rack for 5
minutes, turn it out onto the rack, and dust it with some of the
confectioners' sugar. Let the bread cool completely and dust it with
the

Submitted By SALLIE KREBS   On   12-26-94

