Title: Wiener Osterstriezel (Viennese Easter Twist)
Categories: Nuts/grains, German, Bread, Fruit, Holiday
Yield: 1 loaf
MMMMM--------------------------SERVINGS-------------------------------
MMMMM----------------SOURCE: GOURMET MAGAZINE, AP---------------------
In Austria Eastertime is a serious occasion. For once, the whipped
cream pastries are bypassed in favor of a striking fruit-filled ring,
sculptured in a tier of braids. Accompanied by coffee with whipped
cream, it is the delectable finish to a meal of potato and mushroom
soup, baked country ham, dumplings, and green salad. The following
recipe was once the pride of a Backerei in Prachatice, a little town,
in Czechoslovakia. In a small bowl proof 2 envelopes active dry yeast
in 1/2 cup lukewarm water with 1 teaspoon sugar for 10 minutes. In a
large bowl combine 2 sticks or 1 cup butter, softened and cut into
bits, 3/4 cup sugar, and 1 teaspoon each of grated lemon rind and
salt. Stir 3/4 cup scalded milk into the butter mixture and let the
mixture cool until it is lukewarm. Stir in the yeast mixture and 2
whole eggs and 1 egg yolk, lightly beaten. Gradually beat in 3 cups
flour, or enough to make a soft dough, and beat the dough for 5
minutes. Turn the dough out onto a lightly floured surface and knead
in about 2 1/2 cups more flour for 10 minutes, or until the dough is
smooth and satiny. Form the dough into a ball, put it into a buttered
bowl, turning it to coat it with the butter, and let it rise in a
warm place, covered, for 1 1/2 hours, or until it is double in bulk.
Punch down the dough, press in 1/2 cup sultanas, or 1/4 cup chopped
citron, and 1/3 cup slivered blanched almonds, and knead the dough
lightly to just incorporate them. Divide the dough into 3 pieces by
first cutting it in half and then cutting two-thirds of the dough
from one of the halves. Divide the largest portion into 4 equal
pieces. Roll each piece into a rope 18 inches long and braid the
ropes. Put the braid on a buttered baking sheet, form it into a ring,
pinching the ends together, and brush the surface with egg white,
lightly beaten. Divide the next largest portion of dough into 3 equal
pieces. Roll each piece into a rope about 18 inches long, braid the
ropes, and form the braid into a ring. Arrange the braid on top of
the other braid and brush the surface with egg white, lightly beaten.
Divide the last portion of dough into 2 pieces and form each piece
into a rope 18 inches long. Twist them together, form the twist into
a ring, and put it on top of the braids. Fold a 12-inch piece of foil
in half lengthwise, butter it, and roll it into a cylinder about 3
inches in diameter, buttered side out. Fit the cylinder into the
center of the braid ring and let the dough rise, covered, in a warm
place for about 45 minutes, or until it is double in bulk. Brush the
ring all over with 1 egg, beaten with 1 teaspoon water, and bake it
in a preheated moderate oven (350-F) for 45 to 50 minutes, or until it

Submitted By SALLIE KREBS   On   12-26-94

