Title: Wild Yeast Sourdough
Categories: Bread, Sourdough, Information
Yield: 6 servings
Text Only
Stephen Ceideburg
The Chef or Starter (Based by Thorne on the method of Lionel Poilane)

1. Pour one-half cup of (unchlorinated) water into a bowl. Work in
enough flour to make a "moist but cohering dough." Prac- tice will
make this stage obvious: when the soupy slurry turns to a solid,
puttylike mass that can be massaged (kneaded) into a small, elastic
ball. Please note that no commercial yeast has been added. This
starter will ferment, if it does ferment, be- cause of the presence,
either in the ambient air or in the flour, of naturally occurring
yeasts and symbiotic bacteria.

2. Put the starter in a small bowl. Cover with a damp dish towel
secured by a rubber band. Leave on a shelf in a draft-free kitchen
for three days, re-moistening the towel as needed (and when possible:
clearly, the atmosphere in your kitchen may dry out the towel so
rapidly that only round-the clock surveillance will really keep the
towel continually moist. Eternal vigilance is impossible, but do your
best. Also please note that no kitchen temperature is specified,
since you will probably have to work with what you've got. Unheated
kitchens in severe winter weather are obviously not the ideal, but
the normal range of temperature in a modern home should work in
something like the times speci- fied here and below).

3. The starter is activated when it looks and smells active.
Fermentation produces a noticeable expansion in its size and a
slightly "tangy" odor. It can then be used or refrigerated for
several days.

The Levain, or Sponge: 8-ounce starter, 2 1/2 cups flour,

Put the starter in a bowl with 1 1/4 cups cold water (cold to slow the
fermentation, on the theory that a long rising at this point improves
flavor and. be cause it relaxes the gluten, makes the job of working
in the water easier). Work until the starter has completely
dissolved. (Thorne uses his hands: an electric hand beater is it much
more efficient. Just add a little water at a time.) Stir in the flour
and the salt to make a loose mass. With floured hands move it to a
clean bowl. Cover with a damp towel and a piece of plastic wrap.
Secure with a rubber band and leave to ripen overnight in a cool
place (Thorne specifies 60 degrees).

The Loaf: 1 sponge, Flour, Cornmeal

1. Put the sponge on a well-floured surface. Begin to work in the new
flour. The idea is to knead in as much flour as the sponge will "take"
until it turns into silken, nonsticky dough that is a pleasure to
work. No amount of flour is specified. The limiting factor is the 1
1/4 cups of water added at the sponge stage. This kneading stage
takes 12 to 15 minutes, during which the movement activates the
elasticity of the gluten and traps air in the dough so that the yeast
can do its work.

2. Dust the dough with flour, put it in a large, lightly oiled bowl,
cover with a damp towel and let rise to double in bulk. This is a
fairly fast rise and needs a warm environment, around 80 degrees, for
one to three hours, usually about two.

3. Flour your hands and gently rework the dough to break up air
bubbles. Pinch off an egg-shaped piece of the dough and reserve as
the starter for subsequent adventures. Line a colander with a
generously floured towel, and secure it around the colan- der's
perimeter with a rubber band. Set the dough on the towel and let rise
almost as far as it did on the first rise.

4. Preheat the oven to 450 degrees. Heat the base of the bread cloche.

5. When the dough is ready, sprinkle the cloche base liber- ally with
corn meal. Then, grasping the towel, pick up the loaf, and roll it
gently onto the cloche base so that the round part faces up. Slash
the surface in three places with a sharp knife or single edged razor
blade. Place in oven, cover with cloche top, and bake for 15 minutes.

6. Reduce heat to 400 degrees and bake another 20 minutes. Then
remove the cloche top to brown the crust for about 10 minutes. The
loaf is done if it sounds hollow when tapped on the bottom. After it
cools, store in a closed paper bag.

Yield: One crusty loaf.

Raymond Sokolov writing in "Natural History", 4/93.

(Abstracted from Outlaw Cook, by John Thorne, Farrar, Straus & Giroux,
1992)

Posted by Stephen Ceideburg

