Title: CAESAR SALAD (CEIDEBURG)
Categories: Salads
Yield: 6 Servings
5    Anchovies
1 tb Cracked black peppercorns
-(see Note)
1/2 c  Extra virgin olive oil
1/2 c  Freshly grated Parmesan
-cheese
1    Egg
3 tb Red wine vinegar
2 tb Fresh lemon juice
1 tb Pureed garlic (see Note)
2 ts Dry mustard
1 ts Celery salt
3 ds Tabasco
3 ds Worcestershire sauce
1/2    Loaf sourdough, hearty
-French or Italian bread,
-with crust, diced
For croutons
2 md Heads romaine lettuce
Zesty Tabasco and Worcestershire spice up this innovation from "City
Cuisine" by Susan Feniger and Mary Sue Milliken (William Morrow and
Co., 1989).  The dressing contains lightly cooked egg, so if made
ahead must be refrigerated.

Combine anchovies, black pepper and olive oil in a blender. Puree for
about 5 minutes until very smooth. Add grated Parmesan. Measure and
reserve 1/3 cup for use with croutons.

Bring a small saucepan of water to a boil.  Place a refrigerated egg
on slotted spoon and into boiling water. Cook for 1 1/2 minutes;
remove and reserve.

Place vinegar, lemon juice, mustard, celery salt, Tabasco and
Worcestershire sauce in a large bowl and whisk in anchovy mixture.
Crack open egg and spoon (including parts the are uncooked) into
mixture. Whisk until well combined.  Refrigerate dressing if not
using right away. Combine reserved anchovy mixture with diced bread
in a bowl; toss to coat. Heat a dry cast-iron skillet or non-stick
pan over medium-high and cook croutons, stirring constantly, until
golden and crisp.

Wash and dry lettuce and break into bite-sized pieces. Place in a
salad bowl along with dressing and toss well. Add toasted croutons,
toss again and serve.

Makes 6 servings.

NOTES: To crack peppercorns, place whole peppercorns on a work
counter. Place the bottom of a heavy skillet or saucepan on top and
push down and away from you.

To puree garlic, place peeled garlic cloves in a blender with a dash
of olive oil; puree.  Make in quantity, if desired, and store in the
refrigerator as long as two weeks.

Posted by Stephen Ceideburg; February 14 1991.

