Title: CALAMARIA GEMISTA (STUFFED SQUID)
Categories: Seafood, Greek
Yield: 4 Servings
3 lb Large fresh squid
1/2 c  Olive oil
1 c  Coarsely chopped onion
-(packed)
1/3 c  Long-grain rice
1/4 c  Pine nuts
2 lg Garlic cloves; chopped
1/4 c  Currants
3/4 c  Dry white or red wine
Salt & freshly ground pepper
-to taste
3/4 c  Chopped fresh parsley
-(packed)
1/4 c  Chopped fresh dill, packed
4 tb Chopped fresh mint
2 c  Peeled, seeded tomatoes
-(chopped)
Wash and clean squid.  Grasp the head just below the eyes, pull it
off from the rest of the body, and set it aside. Cut away the thin
purplish membrane on the outside of the tail section. Using your
index finger, scoop out and discard the guts and thin cartilage
"icicle" on the inside of the tail section.  Rinse tail sections
inside and out and set aside in a colander to drain.  Take the head
section in one hand and put pressure with your thumb and forefinger
around the mouth and eyes, to squeeze them out. Discard mouth and
eyes.

Chop the squid tentacles and have them ready, as they will be used in
the stuffing.

In a large skillet, heat half the oilve oil and saute onion until
wilted. Add rice, tentacles, and pine nuts and saute over medium-low
heat for 2 to 3 minutes. Add garlic and currants to rice and stir
quickly with a woodent spoon.  Pour in 1/4 cup wine and 1/4 cup
water. Season with salt and pepper.  Reduce heat to low and simmer,
covered, until liquid is almost completely absorbed and rice is soft
but only about half cooked, about 15 minutes.  About 5 minutes before
removing skillet from heat, add parsley, dill and mint. Remove and
let cool enough to handle.

Using a small teaspoon or a butter knife, carefully fill about three
quarters of each squid with the rice mixture. Use toothpicks to secure
closed.  Pour remaining olive oil into a large stewing pot. Place
squid carefully in pot.  Pour in remaining wine and enough water to
cover. Bring to a boil, reduce heat to low, and simmer, covered for
about 1-1/2 hours, or until rice is cooked and squid fork-tender.
Twenty minutes before removing squid from heat, add chopped tomatoes
to pot and adjust seasoning with salt and pepper. Check throughout
cooking to see if more water is necessary so that mixture doesn't dry
out.  Serve squid hot or cold with a simple green salad.

SERVING SUGGESTIONS: This dish needs a delicate wine such as a Robola
Callinga or Santorini Boutari.  Serve with wild greens (horta),
'horiatiki salata (village salad), and a beautiful olive bread.

Source: The Food and Wine of Greece - by Diane
Kochilas
ISBN: 0-312-05088-7
Typed for you by Karen Mintzias

