Title: Candied Ginger-Sweet Potato Pie
Categories: Pie/tart
Yield: 1 servings
1    Orange -- *see note
1 c  Water
1 c  Sugar
2 tb Candied ginger root
2 c  Sweet potatoes -- mashed
1/4 c  Whipping cream
2 tb Margarine -- melted
1 ts Vanilla extract
6    Egg whites
1/2 ts Cream of tartar
3    Egg yolks
1    9 inch pie crust -- unbaked
* Prepare orange by cutting off strips of the rind, being careful not
to include any of the white pulp just beneath the orange part of the
rind. Cut enough rind and cut into small slivers to make 2
tablespoons. Squeeze the orange and strain; measure out 1/2 cup and
set aside.

In small pan, combine 1 cup water and 1/2 cup sugar. Bring to a boil
over high heat and then stir in orange rind that has been slivered.
Lower heat and keep mixture at barely simmering state; simmer
uncovered until mixture is like syrup, about 10 minutes or so. Stir
in the ginger and set aside to cool to lukewarm. In a large bowl,
combine the mashed potatoes, 1/2 cup orange juice, whipping cream,
margarine, vanilla and the 3 egg yolks. Beat this until very well
combined. Stir in the cooled syrup mixture and beat well. Place 2 egg
whites in bowl and beat until soft peaks form. Stir this into potato
mixture; do not beat but blend it very well. Pour this mixture into
the unbaked pie shell. Make sure you smooth the top of the pie. Bake
in a preheated 350-degree oven 45-50 minutes or until knife inserted
1/3 distance from edge comes out clean. The center will be just the
slightest bit soft. About 20 minutes before pie is done, prepare the
topping.

TOPPING: Place the 4 remaining egg whites in a large bowl along with
the cream of tartar. Beat at low speed until frothy. Increase the
speed and VERY gradually add the remaining 1/2 cup sugar. Continue
beating until whites are very glossy and stiff. This will take about
12-15 minutes. When pie is done, remove from oven and spoon on the
egg whites. Don't smooth the top; make soft peaks with the back of a
spoon. Continue baking for 10-15 minutes longer at the same
350-degree temperature until meringue is very light brown. Remove to
a wire rack to cool.

* This topping will "weep" if kept overnight so plan to serve the
same day it is prepared.

: Jo Anne Merrill
Recipe By

