Title: Chocolate Yeast Loaf
Categories: Chocolate, Breads
Yield: 1 servings
1/4 c  Warm water
1 tb Sugar
1/2 c  Sugar
1 pk Yeast
1 c  Milk
2 tb Butter -- cut in pieces
4 c  Bread flour
1 ts Salt
2/3 c  Unsweetened cocoa powder
2 ts Instant coffee powder -- not
Granular
2 lg Eggs
1 ts Vanilla extract
1 c  Black walnuts -- chopped
1/2 c  Raisins, seedless
MMMMM-------------------------SERVE WITH------------------------------
1/2 c  Honey
1/2 c  Butter
1. Mix the water and 1 tablespoon sugar in mixing cup. Add yeast and
stir slightly. Set aside for 10 minutes until foamy. 2. Warm the milk
and butter in a saucepan to about 110 degrees (butter will not melt
completely). 3. In a large mixing bowl, combine 3-3/4 cups flour,
salt, cocoa, coffee and the remaining 1/2 cup sugar. Blend well. 4.
Beat eggs slightly and add the warm milk, butter and vanilla; blend.
Add this mixture along with the yeast mixture to the flour. Stir in
the walnuts and raisins. Mix all with a mixer with dough hook, or by
hand with a wooden spoon. 5. Turn onto a lightly floured surface and
knead for 5 to 6 minutes until smooth and elastic. Or continue mixing
in the mixer and knead only 2 minutes or so. Add more flour if
necessary. 6. Grease a large bowl and place the dough into it,
turning to grease all sides. Cover and let rise in a warm place until
dough has doubled in size, about 2 hours. 7. Knead the dough a few
times, cover with plastic wrap and let rest for few minutes. Roll the
dough into a large oval shape and roll up like a jelly roll, placing
the seam side down. Roll from the narrow end to make it fit into the
pan size you prefer. Use a loaf pan or a round casserole type pan.
Butter a piece of plastic wrap and place loosely over the dough. Let
rise again until doubled in size; about 1-1/2 hours. 8. Preheat oven
to 350 degrees and place bread near the center of the oven, not too
high. Bake for 25 minutes, then cover loosely with foil and continue
baking 30 to 40 minutes longer. 9. Let cool for 10 minutes, then
remove from pan and finish cooling on wire rack. Serve with butter
and honey for a real treat.

: Jo Anne Merrill
Recipe By

