Title: Chocolate-Zucchini Cake
Categories: Cake/cookie, Chocolate, Desserts, Tasteofhome
Yield: 12 servings
2 1/2 c  All-purpose flour
1/4 c  Unsweetened cocoa powder
1 ts Baking powder
1 ts Baking soda
1/2 c  Butter or margarine
1 3/4 c  Sugar
1/2 c  Cooking oil
1 ts Vanilla
2    Eggs
1/2 c  Dairy sour cream
2 c  Finely shredded zucchini
Chocolate Butter Frosting
-(recipe follows)
1 c  Miniature semisweet
-chocolate pieces
1 c  Chopped nuts
From : Sallie Krebs, Sat 06 Aug 95 04:00, Area: COOKING

Julie Herron of Salem, Ohio, uses her garden's bounty of zucchini in
this moist chocolate layer cake. She topped it with a chocolate
butter-cream frosting and brought home first-place honors at the
Canfield Fair.

1. Grease and lightly flour two 9-inch round baking pans; set pans
aside.

2. Stir together the flour, cocoa powder, baking powder and baking
soda.

3. In large mixing bowl, beat butter or margarine with electric mixer
on medium speed for 30 seconds.

4. Add sugar, oil and vanilla; beat till well combined. Add eggs, one
at a time, beating 1 minute after each addition. Add the sour cream;
beat till combined.

5. Add the dry ingredients to beaten mixture, beating on low speed
till just combined. Fold in the zucchini. Divide batter between the
prepared pans.

6. Bake in a 350-F oven for 35 to 40 minutes or till a toothpick
inserted near the center of each cake comes out clean.

7. Place cakes on wire racks; cool in pans for 10 minutes. Remove
cakes from pans and cool thoroughly.

8. To frost, place one cake layer on a cake plate. Spread with some
of the Chocolate Butter Frosting. Sprinkle frosting with half of the
chocolate pieces and nuts. Place second layer on top. Frost top and
sides with remaining frosting. Sprinkle top and sides with remaining
chocolate and nuts.
Chocolate Butter Frosting. In a bowl, beat 1/3 cup butter or
margarine and 1/2 cup unsweetened cocoa powder with an electric mixer
on medium speed till fluffy. Gradually add 2 cups sifted powdered
sugar, beating well. Slowly beat in 1/4 cup milk and 1 1/2 teaspoons
vanilla. Slowly beat in 2 cups sifted powdered sugar. Beat in
additional milk, if needed, to make a spreading consistency.

Source: Midwest Living, August 1995

