Title: Couch Potato Foolproof Chili Recipe (cont'd)
Categories: Main dish, Side dish, Chilies
Yield: 1 servings
No Ingredients Found
The joy of chili is that no one really seems to know exactly what the
stuff is. I've had chili creations made with tofu, with cheese, with
zucchini and with tuna (which made me want to hurl). There's a fair
amount of scholarly argument concerning the nature of chili, some of
which is worth dredging up, just for the record. In their very funny
book called Cooking: A Dictionary, Henry Beard and Roy McKie define
"chili" as, "An exceedingly hot-tasting plant of the genus Capsicum,
usually added in powdered form to a dish made of shredded cattle."
They further define "chili con carne" as, "Incendiary dogfood widely
eaten in Texas." And a "chili parlor" is said to be, "A fistfight at
which cooked beef is served."Most likely, chili was invented in
Texas, where it's risen to the highstate of, as Will Rogers once
said, "A bowl of blessedness." In Texas,the myths concerning the
birth of chili are legion. Some claim it first emerged in San Antonio
in the years before the Civil War. Others suggest it was created by
Texans heading off for the gold fields of California, as a reminder
of the fine, and spicy, tastes of home. Another theory contends that
chili was invented in the prisons of Texas, as a way of making cheap
meat taste edible. My favorite legend concerning chili is that it was
first described by a mystical nun named Sister Mary of Agreda in the
year 1618, after she emerged from one of her occasional trances.
Whatever the origin, the point of chili is that it can be made out of
just about anything. Like religion and politics, nobody agrees about
the one true chili. Some argue for chunks of beef, while others
insistthe beef must be ground. Some say beans, especially red kidney
beans (as in Cincinnati-style chili) are perfectly appropriate;
others rail that

beans are simply cheap filler. Some says chili must be Simon pure,
while others argue for the presence of lamb, mutton, cinnamon,
chicken, duck ++ God knows what else. What I do know is that it goes
great with beer. Lots of beer, especially if you get a sudden spasm
adding the chili peppers. If that night the sheets do not touch the
bed, your chili has been a wondrous success. Copyright 1995, Merrill
Shindler

Submitted By SAM LEFKOWITZ   On   08-02-95

