Title: Garnishing a Beet Carved Rose
Categories: Vegetables
Yield: 1 servings
No Ingredients Found
The beet carved rose is the most elegant of the vegetable flower.
This rose also takes the most practice because it is hand carved from
the raw vegetable.  Before attemption to make the rose from the beet
or turnip, you should practice carving this flower from a potato.
The potato is much easier to work with and any mistakes can be turned
into sliced or mashed potatoes and nothing will be wasted.

1. To start the rose, select a well rounded beet and cut the
vegetable in half.  Hold one of the halves in one hand and with the
other hand, use the small knife and cut a petal just below the flat
surface of the beet. Cut these petals as if you were going to peel
the vegetable, cutting close to, but not all the way through the
base.  Try to keep the petals as thin and rounded as possible.

2. Place the point of the knife between any of the two petals you
have cut around the outside of the beet and cut out a thin ring from
the inside of the vegetable.

3. Cut this ring in a continuous strip as you would do when peeling an
apple.

4. After you have completed the second step it is just a matter of
repeating these two steps, working towards the center of the
vegetable. After removing the first ring from inside the first row of
petals, start cutting the second row of petals, cutting them the same
way as the first row was made. Each row of petals should be cut so
they alternate.  This is done by cutting the inside petal between the
two outside petals of the row you just finished.

5. You will notice, as the flower progresses, that the rings you have
cut out will get smaller and smaller until you have reached the
center, or core, of the vegetable.  The more rows of petals you can
carve out, the more striking and life like the rose will look.  It is
just a matter of practice before you can produce beautiful vegetable
roses.  Once you have mastered the carved rose, you are only
restricted by your imagination as to the many centerpieces and
garnishes you can create with them. For an elegant centerpiece on a
buffet table, carve these roses from both red beets and white turnips
and arrange them on a background of fresh parsley or watercress to
creat a beautiful bouquet or red and white roses.

** NOTE ** The carved beet roses can be made ahead (in the summer when
beets are in season and not expensive) and frozen until needed.  To
freeze the carved beet roses they must be placed in a container of
water and completely submerged before freezing. To two tone or accent
the turnip rose, cut of a thin slice of beet and brush it across the
tips of the turnip flower. This will give the turnip rose a new look.

Origin: The Fine Art of Garnishing, by Jerry Crowley. Shared by:
Sharon Stevens, Aug/95.

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   08-17-95

