Title: Jelebi (Deep Fried Batter Sweets)
Categories: Desserts, Indian
Yield: 4 servings
MMMMM---------------------------BATTER--------------------------------
2 c  Plain flour
1/2 c  Rice flour
7 g  Fresh compressed yeast or
1/2 ts Dried yeast
1/2 c  Lukewarm water
1/4 ts Saffron strands
2 tb Boiling water
1 tb Yoghurt
Vegetable oil for frying
MMMMM---------------------------SYRUP--------------------------------
3 c  Sugar
3 c  Water
1 tb Light corn syrup
Rose essence to flavour
1 1/2 ts Liquid orange food colouring
Sift the flour and rice flour into a large bowl. Sprinkle yeast on
the warm water in a small bowl, leave to soften for 5 minutes and
stir to dissolve. Put saffron strands in a cup and pour the boiling
water over. Leave to soak for 10 minutes.

Pour dissolved yeast and saffron with its soaking water into a
measuring jug. Add tepid water to make up 2 1/4 cups. Stirring with a
wooden spoon, add the measured liquid to the flour and beat well
until batter is very smooth. Add yoghurt and beat again. Leave to
rest for 1 hour. Batter will start to become frothy. Beat vigorously
again before starting to fry jelebis. (While batter stands make syrup
and leave it to become just warm).

Heat vegetable oil in a deep frying pan and when hot use a funnel to
pour in the batter, making circles or figures of eight. Frying,
turning once, until crisp and golden on both sides. Lift out on a
slotted spoon, let the oil drain for a fews seconds, then drop the
hot jelebi into the syrup and soak it for a minute or two. Lift out
of the syrup (using another slotted spoon) and put on a plate to
drain.

Syrup: Heat sugar and water over low heat, stirring until sugar
dissolves. Raise heat and boil hard for 8 minutes; syrup should be
just thick enough to spin a thread. Remove from heat, allow to cool
until lukewarm, flavour with rose essence (about 1.2 tsp of good
quality essence is sufficient) and colour a bright orange with food
colouring.

*Jelebis are coils of crisply fried batter with a rose-scented syrup
inside the coils. How the syrup gets into the coils is a mystery
unless you do some research on the subject.

This is a traditionally festive sweet. (Moghul custom)

I. Chaudhary Gold Coast-Oz
Submitted By IMRAN CHAUDHARY   On   08-14-95

