Title: Kitchen Terms (Part 2 of 5)
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 info
No ingredients
Canape: An appetizer consisting of fried or toasted bread or crisp
crackers topped with seasoned spread of fish, meat, cheese or salad
combinations.

Capon: Castrated male chicken; large, tender meat.

Caramelize: To melt sugar and heat it until it becomes a golden brown
liquid; this caramel liquid is used to flavor soups, vegetables and
other dishes; also used in cakes, icings, candy and sauces.

Chop: To cut in small pieces with a knife or chopper; a cut of meat.

Chowder: A half-soup, half-stew of vegetables, fish or other foods.

Clarify: To make liquids such as coffee or soups completely
transparent by the addition of egg white or other agent; after
several minutes heating the egg white in the liquid, the white
coagulates, collecting solids in it; this portion can be strained
off, leaving a completely clear liquid.

Cobbler: Form of deep fruit pie; may have top crust only or top and
bottom crust.

Cocktail: Beverage, alcoholic or made of fruit or vegetable juices,
served as appetizer before meal; also a cup of chopped fruit, or of
seafood dressed in a tart sauce, served before a meal.

Confectioners' Sugar: Finest form of cane or beet sugar; used for
frostings and confections. Do not confuse with powered sugar which is
coarser and not so sweet.

Compote: Cooked, sweetened fruit, usually two or more kinds mixed;
served as dessert or with meat or poultry.

Condiments: Seasonings such as salt, pepper, paprika, including
spices and herbs; also used to refer to sauces such as tobasco,
worcestershire, A-1, and similar bottled seasonings.

Consomme': Clear soup made of meat and chicken, or as used today, any
clear soup.

Core: The fruit's core is the stem running through it surrounded by
seeds. To core an apple or pear is to remove its core; the
cylindrical knife for this puropse is called a corer.

Cream: To soften fat by beating it with a spoon or beater until it
can be whipped almost like very thick cream; also means to blend fat
and sugar smoothly together.

Creole: The addition of tomatoes, green peppers, spicy seasonings and
sometime chopped okra or corn to a sauce or dish; in the style of New
Orleans cookery.

Croquettes: Food, raw or cooked, hashed fine, held together by a thick
sauce or egg, shaped into small forms (balls, cylinders, cones,
cubes) and cooked in deep, hot fat.

Croutons: Tiny cubes of bread fried in fat or toasted, and served as
garnish on soups and other dishes.

Cut in: To work fat or shortening into flour or corn meal with the
fingers, or with two knives or a pastry blender until the mixture has
the texture of very course meal.

Cut & Fold: Usually applied to adding stiffly beaten egg whites to a
liquid or other mixtures; the cutting is done by turning the spoon
sideways as it goes into the mixture from bottom of the bowl, then
fold it over the top portion, and repeat till the two mixtures are
combined.

Cutlet: A piece of meat from the leg or rib; also croquet mixture
shaped like a chop or meat cutlet.

Deep fat Frying: To fry in a large kettle nearly full of liquid fat,
which has been heated so that the food floated in it browns quickly.

Demitasse: Literally half cup; the small cup of after dinner coffee.

Deviled: Highly spiced food.

Dice: To cut into small cubes or pieces.

Draw: Used in reference to poultry, means to cut the foul open and
remove (draw out) the entrails.

Dredge: To coat food such as meat by dipping it into and completely
covering it with fine, powdery mixture of flour and seasonings or
seasoned crumbs; or to sprinkle flour and other mixtures over a food;
fruit is dredged in sugar or with sugar.
Submitted By MICHAEL ORCHEKOWSKI   On   08-02-95

