Title: Kitchen Terms (Part 3 of 5)
Categories: Information
Yield: 1 info
No ingredients
Dressed: Referring to poultry, means that feathers, but not the head,
feet or entrails, have been removed; meaning varies in different
markets and communities.

Drippings: Fats and juices which cook out of beef, veal, pork, lamb,
mutton or poultry while they roast or broil; fat left in frying pan
where bacon or chops or other meat has cooked.

Entree: Today, the main dish of a simple meal; in more elaborate
menus an interesting "made" dish served between soup and meat; or
fish and meat or with the meat or main course.

Escallop: More usual term is scallop, meaning to bake any food with a
sauce and topping if crumbs or crumbs and cheese; sometimes baked in
a scallop shell or shell-shaped dish, hence the name.

Espagnole: Spanish-style; similar to Creole in cookery since it often
means the addition of tomatoes or tomato paste, onion and spicy
seasonings.

Eviscerate: To remove entrails from fowl or game.

Fat: Butter, margarine, shortening, lard, oils, fat from fowl and
meat.

Filet Mignon: A piece of chicken, fish or meat from which bones have
been removed, or which originally contained no bones.

Flake: To break into small sections or pieces with a fork or spoon.

Flour, Browned: Flour heated in an ungreased skillet over low heat
until browned; stir to avoid burning.

Fondue: Applied to baked cheese and crumb mixtures, or cheese and wine
rarebits, Swiss-style.

Frappe': A mixture of fruit or juices frozen to a mush, but not solid;
cordial or liqueur poured over cracked ice.

French: Of lamb chops, to trim away the meat from the end of the
bone. Of beef tenderloin, to flatten with a cleaver. Of green beans,
to cut lengthwise into thin slivers. Of frying, to immerse food in
deep hot fat until the surface is browned.

Fricassee: To cook meat, poultry or game cut in small pieces, in
liquid and fat.

Fritters: Food covered with batter, or mixed with batter, and fried in
deep, hot fat, or in a pan.

Frost: To spread icing or frosting over a cake, cookies or other
foods.

Garnish: To add decorative color to a dish with parsley, fruit and
other foods.

Giblets: The heart, liver and gizzard of poultry.

Glaze: The shiny coat given to foods: glazed ham has a sugar-and-fat
glaze or one of aspic or gelatin; glazed carrots are coated with
sugar and butter.

Grate: To break or scrape foods into small pieces by rubbing them
over a utensil known as a grater or on various small grating devices.

Gravy: Sauce made with the juices of meat, poultry or fish in the pan
in which they cooked, with other added liquids and seasonings and
possibly flour for thickening.

Grease: To rub the inside surface of a dish with fat so that food put
into the dish will not stick to the surface; to rub a baking pan or
mold with oil or fat.

Grill: To cook food on a wire or metal rack under or over heat.

Hors d'oeuvre: The French version of appetizers, served before a meal:
olives, celery, pickled beets, pickled mushrooms, sardines and other
foods.

Ice: A fruit juice mixture frozen until firm and smooth; to ice means
to chill either in the refrigerator or on the ice; or the addition of
ice to the food or drink itself. Also means to apply icing or
frosting to a cake. Submitted By MICHAEL ORCHEKOWSKI   On   08-02-95

