Title: Michael Mclaughlin's Shellfish Stew
Categories: Fish/seafoo, Soup/stew
Yield: 6 servings
3 tb Olive oil
2 c  Diced onions (1/4")
2    Red bell peppers, cleaned
-and coarsely diced
1    Green bell pepper, cleaned
-and coarsely diced
6    Garlic cloves, finely
-chopped
2 c  Fish broth
2 c  Red Zinfandel wine
1 cn Italian plum tomatoes,
-drained (35 oz)
1 1/2 tb Dried basil
1 ts Dried thyme
1    Bay leaf
Salt to taste
Pepper to taste
Hot pepper flakes to taste
8    Mussels
8    Littleneck clams
8    Peeled and deveined shrimp,
-rinsed and patted dry
3/4 lb Bay scallops, rinsed and
-patted dry
1 c  Chopped flat-leaf parsley
The cookbook author and writer Michael McLaughlin cooked up this
marvelous soup in 1982, and it has remained a mainstay in my kitchen
ever since. For ease in preparation, make the broth ahead of time.
The soup can almost be completed the morning before serving; simply
add the shellfish at the end. If its "beard" is removed, a mussel
will die. So, to keep mussels fresh, don't remove their beards until
just before adding to the soup.

1. Place the oil in a large, heavy pot. Add the onions, peppers and
garlic. Cook over low heat, covered, until vegetables are tender,
about 20 minutes.

2. Add fish broth, wine, tomatoes, basil, thyme and bay leaf. Season
to taste with salt, pepper and red pepper flakes. Bring to a boil,
reduce heat to medium-low and simmer, partially covered, for 30
minutes. (Can be made one day ahead and refrigerated.)

3. Scrub the mussels and clams well. Don't remove mussels' beards
until just before use. Place shellfish in the bottom of a heavy pot.
Add 1" of water and place over high heat to steam shells open. As
they open, remove mussels and clams one by one with a slotted spoon;
reserve.

4. Five minutes before serving, bring wine mixture to a boil. Drop in
the shrimp and scallops, then the clams and mussels in their shells.
Add parsley, stir well and remove from heat. Let stand, covered, for
1 minute.

5. Ladle into shallow bowls, dividing the seafood equally. Serve
immediately.

Per serving: 252 calories, 7 grams fat, 63 milligrams cholesterol.
Submitted By MICHAEL ORCHEKOWSKI   On   08-12-95

