Title: Nam Prik Kai Kem
Categories: Salsa/sauce, Appetizers
Yield: 2 servings
3    Yolks from salted eggs
1 lg Whole jalapeno pepper -- (or
To taste)
5    Cloves garlic
2 tb Fresh lime juice
1 1/2 tb Fish sauce (Nam Pla)
1 tb Sugar
1 ts Shrimp paste (Kapee)
Fresh vegetables -- *
(Thai Salted Eff Yolk Chili Dip) Place shrimp paste, garlic and chili
in a piece of foil and roast on the stove burner for 30 seconds or
until lightly fragrant. Using a mortar and pestle or a blender, pound
garlic, chili and shrimp paste finely. Add salted egg yolks, fish
sauce, lime juice, sugar and blend well. Serve with cooked rice,
meat, omelet and vegetables. Makes about 1/2 cup of dip. * Cucumbers,
carrots, cabbage, green beans, tomato wedges, zucchini, asparages,
etc., raw or steamed, cut in bite size pieces.

NOTE ABOUT THIS RECIPE AND EATING THAI FOOD IN GENERAL: For those of
you who really want to try a Thai dish that you can't get in any Thai
restaurant, here's one. In the old days, Thai people did not use any
utensils for eating. They used their hands (except for soupy dishes)
and they sat on the floor. One of the most popular daily dishes that
almost every family won't do without is Nam Prik (chili dip). Nam
Prik is considered better for your health because it contains very
little or no fat. It can be served with any kind of meat but usually
fish, along with fresh vegetables, omelet and rice (can you see the 4
basic food groups here?). It enhances other food's flavor since it's
very strong, so use it sparingly. It's also called "farmer's supper"
or "poorman's supper" because of the cost of the ingredients. If you
want to try eating it by hand like the traditional Thais be sure to
give everyone his/her individual bowl of water on the side to dip
their hands in since rice tends to stick to your hands after awhile.
DO NOT lick your fingers, it's considered a bad manner. Use the water
bowl provided. And never return any half bitten food to the dip,
since that's unsanitary. To successfully get the rice from the plate
to your mouth, without even dropping a grain, dip the meat and
vegetable in the chili dip then place them on a mound of rice. Then
squeeze the whole thing together to form a rice ball and enjoy. Shake
off any excess water from hand before returning to the plate for
better grips. This and the following recipes are usually served with
boiled or fried fish, boiled shrimps and raw or cooked vegetables.
They are very tasty.

:
Recipe By

