Title: Pork Vindaloo
Categories: Indian, Meats, Main dish
Yield: 4 servings
6    Dried red chilies
2 ts Black peppercorns
2 ts Cumin seed
4    Green cardamom pods --
Crushed
6    Cloves
3 md Onion
6    Cloves garlic -- chopped
1 tb Ginger root -- chopped
3 tb White wine vinegar
2 lb Boneless pork tenderloin --
Cut into 1" chunks
2 ts Canola oil
3    Inch cinnamon stick --
Crushed
2 ts Red pepper powder
1 ts Ground tumeric
3 tb Tamarind liquid
1/2 ts Salt
In a small skillet, dry roast the red chilies, peppercorns, cumin,
cardamom and cloves until the cumin seeds begin to change color.  Let
cool slightly. Grind to a powder in a spice grinder.  Chop one of the
onions coarsely. Finely slice the remaining onions.  In a mini food
processor or blender, process the garlic, ginger and 1 tbsp of water
to a smooth paste. Add the chopped onion and 1 to 2 tbsp water, if
necessary, and process again until smooth.  Add the ground spices and
vinegar and process until thoroughly combined.  Put the pork in a
shallow bowl.  Rub the paste mixture into the pork pieces. Cover and
marinate for at least 1 hour in the refrigerator, stirring
occasionally.  Heat the oil in a large nonstick skillet over moderate
heat.  Add the crushed cinnamon.  Allow to cook for a few seconds.
Add the reserved onion rings.  Cook, stirring for 2 minutes. Reduce
the heat to low.  Add 2 to 3 tbsp water.  Cook, stirring ocasionally,
until the onions are golden brown, about 20 minutes.  If necessary,
add a little water to prevent the onions from burning and sticking to
the pan. Add the red pepper powder and tumeric and stir for 20
seconds. Add the meat to the pan in batches and stir until it is
seared on all sides, taking care the mixture does not stick to the
bottom of the pan. Add 1 cup warm water to the pork and bring to the
boil. Reduce the heat to low, cover and simmer until the liquid has
reduced by half. Add the tamarind liquid and salt to taste.  Continue
cooking, covered, until the pork is tender, stirring occasionally.
The approximate cooking time should be about 40 minutes to 1 1/4
hours.  Remove from heat. Serve with lots of rice and a yogurt salad.
May be prepared 1 to 2 days ahead. Note-Skninless chicken, lamb or
shrimp may be substituted. 359 calories and 11 grams fat.

: Indian Light Cooking
Recipe By

Date: 07-30-95 (20:26) (159)
From: Meg Antczak
Fido: Cooking

