Title: RATATOUILLE TART - Bon Appetit
Categories: Bon appetit, Main dish, Vegetables, Pie/tart
Yield: 6 servings
12 tb (about) olive oil
1    3/4-lb eggplant, cut into
-1/2-inch pieces
1 lg Onion, chopped
1 md Green bell pepper, chopped
3 lg Garlic cloves, minced
1 ts Dried thyme
3 tb Tomato paste
10    Fresh phyllo pastry sheets
-frozen, thawed
12 ts Grated Parmesan cheese
1 1/2 c  Grated soft mild provolone
-cheese (about 6 oz)
6 sm Plum tomatoes (about
-12 oz), cut into 1/4 inch
-thick slices
2 md Zucchini (about 11 oz), cut
-crosswise into 1/4 inch
-thick slices
Fresh thyme sprigs (opt.)
Heat 6 T oil in large nonstick skillet over medium-high heat. Add
eggplant, onion, bell pepper, garlic and 1 t thyme. Season generously
with salt and pepper. Saute until vegetables begin to soften, about
10 minutes. Reduce heat to low. Cover and cook until eggplant is very
tender, stirring occasionally, about 10 minutes. Uncover, stir in
tomato paste and cook until liquid evaporates, about 3 minutes. Place
mixture in strainer set over bowl. Cool completely. Discard liquid in
bowl; transfer eggplant mixture to bowl. (Can be prepared 1 day
ahead. Cover and refrigerate. Drain any additional accumulated liquid
before using.)

Preheat oven to 350'F. Brush 9 inch diameter tart pan with removable
bottom with oil. Stack phyllo sheets on work surface. Using small
sharp knife and 11-inch diameter tart pan bottom as guide, cut phyllo
stack into 11-inch diameter rounds. Transfer 1 phyllo round to
prepared pan, pressing phyllo into pan and allowing sides to extend
above rim of pan (cover remaining rounds with kitchen towel). Brush
phyllo round with olive oil. Sprinkle 1 t Parmesan cheese over. Top
with another round, brush with oil and sprinkle with 1 t Parmesan
cheese. Repeat with remaining phyllo rounds.

Spoon eggplant mixture into phyllo shell. Sprinkle provolone cheese
evenly over. Overlap alternating tomato and zucchini slices in
concentric circles atop eggplant mixture. Brush with oil and season
with salt and pepper. Sprinkle with remaining 2 t Parmesan cheese.
Bake until zucchini is just tender and crust is golden, about 1 hour.
Cool. (Can be prepared 4 hours ahead. Let stand at room temperature.)
Garnish with thyme sprigs, if desired.

Bon Appetit/October/94  Scanned & edited by Di Pahl & <gg>

