Title: Seven-Hour Leg of Lamb
Categories: Main dish, Meats
Yield: 12 servings
6 md Onions, quartered
6    Carrots, peeled & quartered
1    Garlic head, separated into
-cloves, each peeled and
-halved
6    Bay leaves
1 bn Fresh thyme
-OR
4 ts Dried thyme
1    Lamb leg, bone-in, 6-7 lbs.
Salt
Freshly ground black pepper
2 cn Dry white wine, such as
-Algote (750 ml each)
5 lb Large boiling potatoes,
-peeled and quartered
5    Tomatoes, peeled, cored,
-seeded and chopped
Several people, including an important cookbook editor, complained
that the seven-hour leg of lamb from Patricia Wells' "Bistro Cooking"
(Workman Publishing) didn't work. "Cooking a leg of lamb at 425'F.
for 7 hours is insane, not to mention it will blow up your oven,"
griped one of the critics. We thought the method sounded rediculous
too - it seemed that if you were going to cook a lamb for seven
hours, at least you should do it at a lower temperature. We knew we
had a sure-fire lower. We were wrong. The recipe turned out to be one
of the best we've tasted so far this year.

Layer onions, carrots, garlic, bay leaves and thyme on bottom of
non-reactive roaster (with cover) large enough to hold lamb. Place
lamb on top of onion and carrot mixture and roast, uncovered, at
425'F. 30 minutes. Remove roaster from oven and generously season
lamb with salt and pepper to taste. Return to oven and roast 30
minutes more.

Remove roaster from oven, leaving oven on. Place roaster on top of
stove, slowly pour wine over lamb, cover, and bring liquid to boil.
Return roaster, covered, to oven and roast 4-5 additional hours until
lamb is fork tender, but not yet falling off the bone. (Timing will
vary according to size and age of lamb and type of roasting pan
used.) Check on lamb from time to time, reducing oven heat if lamb
begins to burn or liquid begins to evaporate too much.

When lamb is fork tender, bury potatoes and tomatoes in liquid. Cover
and roast until potatoes are cooked through, about 1 hour more. Lamb
should now be very tender, still juicy and falling off bone.

Each serving contains about 530 calories; 141 milligrams sodium; 95
milligrams cholesterol; 20 grams fat; 47 grams carbohydrates; 32 grams
protein; 1.94 grams fiber.
Submitted By MICHAEL ORCHEKOWSKI   On   08-07-95

