Title: Shellfish Cioppino
Categories: Fish/seafoo, Italian, Soup/stew
Yield: 4 servings
-JUDI M. PHELPS
1/4 c  Extra-virgin olive oil
1 lg Onion; chopped
3 lg Garlic cloves; chopped
1/4 ts Crushed hot pepper flakes
2    Celery ribs; chopped
2 md Carrots; peeled and chopped
1 c  Dry red wine
28 oz Can Italian crushed tomatoes
-(in puree)
1 1/2 c  Water
1 tb Fresh oregano; chopped OR
1 ts Dried oregano
1 ts Fresh rosemary ; chopped OR
1/8 ts Dried rosemary
12    Crab claws; cracked and
-preferably Dungeness, fresh
-or defrosted frozen
12    To 14 clams; soft-shell or
-cherrystones; scrubbed
-clean
12    To 14 mussels; scrubbed
-clean
3 tb Fresh parsley;chopped
2 tb Fresh basil; chopped OR
1 ts Dried basil
Crusty Italian bread
Freshly ground pepper
In a nonreactive large, flameproof casserole, heat olive oil over
medium heat.  Cook onion 3 to 4 minutes, or until softened.  Add
garlic and hot pepper flakes and cook 30 seconds, or until fragrant.
Stir in celery and carrots and cook until softened and just turning
golden, 3 to 4 minutes. Add wine, tomatoes, water, oregano, and
rosemary. Cook, uncovered, over medium heat until liquid is reduced
by one fourth, 8 to 10 minutes.

Add crab and cover.  Cook over medium-high heat 3 minutes.  Add clams
and mussels and cook until opened and crab claws are bright red, 3 to
4 minutes longer.  Discard any clams or mussels that did not open.
Sprinkle with parsley and basil.  Serve in shallow soup bowls with
thick crusty bread, passing a pepper mill on the side.

Judi's Notes:  The above recipe is a basic Cioppino recipe.  I usually
double the amount of tomatoes and wine and add 1/2 cup of clam juice
to the tomato wine mixture. I add an extra garlic clove, and then add
about 1/2 lb each scallops and shrimp and a couple pieces of firm
fish such as halibut, swordfish, or whatever is in season. Be sure to
add the scallops and shrimp at the very end of the cooking time or
they will be too tough to even eat and will taste like rubber. Make
sure you have plenty of napkins, seafood shell crackers, and a plate
or bowl for discarded shells. Enjoy!

Source:  365 Easy Italian Recipes.

Shared and MM by Judi M. Phelps. Jphelps@shell.portal.com,
juphelps@delphi.com, or jphelps@best.com

