Title: Southwest Bread
Categories: Breads
Yield: 4 loaves
1/3 c  Yellow cornmeal
1 pk Dry yeast
1/4 c  Honey
3/4 c  Plain yogurt, at room
-temperature
1 c  Whole-wheat flour
7 c  Bread flour
1/4 c  Chopped fresh garlic
1/2 c  Corn, preferably fresh but
-frozen or canned is
-acceptable
1/4 c  Chopped fresh cilantro
1/2 c  Black beans, cooked or use
-canned, rinsed and drained
1/4 c  Chopped sun-dried Italian
-tomatoes, packed in olive
-oil, plus 1 tb of the oil
1/4 c  Red onion, chopped
1    Mild green chile pepper
-(such as poblano), chopped
-finely
3    Jalapeno chile pepper,
-chopped finely
1 tb Crushed hot red pepper
-flakes
1 tb Chili powder
1/2 ts Cumin
1 tb Salt
4 tb Butter, softened
1/2 ts Tarragon vinegar
1 tb Olive oil for coating the
-bowl
1    Egg, beaten, for glazing
-loaf
(4 loaves, 10 slices per loaf)

Add cornmeal to 1 cup boiling water and stir to combine. Set aside to
cool.

Stir yeast into 2 cups warm (105-115'F.) water until it is dissolved.
Add honey, yogurt, whole-wheat flour and 1 cup of the bread flour.
Then add the cornmeal, stir and set aside for an hour or so until the
yeast gets working and bubbles form.

Mix in garlic, corn, cilantro, black beans, chopped sun-dried
tomatoes and oil from tomatoes, red onion, both chiles, red pepper,
chili powder, cumin, salt, butter and vinegar. Add remaining bread
flour, 1 cup at a time, until a firm dough is formed. Knead on a
lightly floured surface for 5 minutes or until smooth, and form into
a ball.

Place dough in a bowl that has been coated with olive oil and turn
dough ball to coat lightly with oil all over. Cover bowl with a tea
towel or loose plastic wrap. Let dough rise until doubled in volume,
about an hour.

Punch down dough and divide into four parts. Form each into a ball.
Place two balls of dough, seam-side down, on a greased baking sheet.
Repeat with remainig two balls on another greased baking sheet. Cover
all four with tea towels or loose plastic wrap and let rise about an
hour until nearly double in volume.

Brush with beaten egg and slash across top surface 1-3 times with a
sharp knife. Bake in a peaheated 375'F. oven for 35 minutes until
center reaches 190'F. or until golden brown. Bread should sound
hollow when tapped. Cool on wire racks.

Per slice: 129 calories, 4 grams protein, 25 grams carbohydrates, 2
grams fat, trace saturated fat, 3 milligrams cholesterol, 174
milligrams sodium. Submitted By MICHAEL ORCHEKOWSKI   On   08-07-95

