Title: Uptown Cafe's Tomato-Artichoke Soup
Categories: Cheese/eggs, Meats, Soup/stew, Vegetables
Yield: 1 batch
1 lg Onion; diced
5    Garlic cloves; minced
2 tb Butter, margarine or olive
-oil
3 1/2 lb Peeled and diced tomatoes
-- with juice
3    14 oz. cans artichoke hearts
-- drained, cut in eighths
6 c  Tomato juice
1 c  Red wine; flamed
2 tb Balsamic vinegar
3 tb Dried basil or
1/2 c  Fresh basil
4 ts Dried thyme leaves
2    Bay leaves
1    Chipotle pepper; fine diced
1 tb Minor's chicken base
1 tb Minor's beef base
3/4 lb Bacon; chopped
-- fried and drained
1 1/2    To 2 qts. water
Salt and pepper; to taste
Gruyere cheese; grated
In a large kettle, saute onion and garlic in butter until onions are
translucent.  Add remaining ingredients except for Gruyere.  Bring to
a simmer and cook 30 minutes.  Before serving, garnish with Gruyere.

Yield: 10 to 12 servings.

About the bases:  Chicken or beef broth can be substituted for the
bases. If using broth, eliminate water and add 3 to 4 cups each of
chicken and beef broth.  Soup bases come in a variety of flavors.
They are available in 1-pint containers from Liquor Outlet on
Hurstbourne Parkway, Lotsa Pasta on Shelbyville Road and Burger's
Super Market on Ray Avenue.

About chipotle peppers: These are smoked jalapenos that have been
either dried or canned in adobo sauce, a Mexican barbecue sauce.
Burger's Super Market and Lotsa Pasta carry them.

To flame wine: Place wine in a shallow pan or skillet.  Heat until
warm but well below the boiling point.  Ignite by touching the edge
of the pan with the flame of a match or candle, taking care not to
ignite your clothing. [Cathy's editorial comment -- Duh!!!]

Colombo wrote: "I am looking forward to using this excellent recipe
when fresh-from-the-garden tomatoes are in."

From the Uptown Cafe/Louisville, KY as requested by Louisvillian Clara
Maddox in Alice Colombo's 02/08/95 "Cook's Corner" column called
"Tomato Flavors Titillate the Taste Buds" in "The (Louisville, KY)
Courier-Journal."  Pg. C5.  Electronic format by Cathy Harned.
Submitted By CATHY HARNED   On   08-08-95

