Title: Brown Sugar Fudge
Categories: Candies
Yield: 6 servings
2 oz Unsweetened Chocolate; 2 Sqs
4 tb Butter; 1/2 stick
1 1/2 ts Vanilla
1/2 c  Chopped Nuts; Optional
1 c  White Sugar; Granulated
1 c  Light Brown Sugar; Firm Pack
1/2 c  Heavy (Whipping) Cream
3 tb Molasses; *
*    This is to taste.  The original recipe called for 4 Tbls of Molasses,
STEP 1:  PREPARE: Prewarm the thermometer in hot water; use a 2-quart
saucepan; butter the upper sides (inside) of the saucepan; measure all
ingredients except the vanilla and optionals, and dump into the saucepan.
Grease and if necessary, line a 5 X 10-inch pan. Fill glass with ice cubes
and water and the sink with 1/2 inch of cold water. STEP 2: Dissolve the
sugar, stirring constantly with a wooden spoon, over low heat until the
butter melts, the gritty sounds cease, and the spoon glides smoothly over
the bottom of the pan.  Increase the heat to medium and bring to a boil.
STEP 3: Boil, after washing down any crystals that may have formed, with a
pastry brush dipped in hot water from the thermometer bath, using as little
water as possible. Introduce the prewarmed thermometer. Reduce the heat
while keeping the fudge at a boil. Stir no more than necessary. STEP 4:
Test the fudge mixture in the ice-cold water when the mixture thickens and
bubbles become noisy. Ball, formed in ice water, should hold its shape
until the heat from your had begins to flatten it and should be al dente ~-
slightly chewy -- between 230 and 240 (110 and 115.5 degrees C.). Because
of the molasses and brown sugar, it can ball at a lower temperature than
some other fudges. STEP 5: Shock by placing the saucepan in the cold water
in the sink. STEP 6: Seed by adding, without stirring, the vanilla. Then
allow to cool. STEP 7: Stir when luke warm and "skin" forms on the top (110
degrees F.(43.5 degrees C.)). Return the thermometer to its hot water bath
to soak clean. Stir the fudge thoroughly but not vigorously by hand, with
an electric mixer, or with a food processor. Pause frequently to allow the
fudge to react. STEP 8: Watch for the fudge to thicken, lose its sheen, and
become lighter in color or streaked with lighter shade, give off some heat,
suddenly stiffen. If mixing by had, the fudge will "snap" with each stroke;
by mixer, mixer waves will become very distinct, by food processor, fudge
will flow sluggishly back to the center when the processor is stopped. STEP
9: Add the optionals (1/2 Cup Chopped Nuts (walnuts, pecans, or hazelnuts
(filberts)) before the fudge totally candies. STEP 10: Pour, score, and
store when cool in an airtight container in the refrigerator or at room
temperature. YIELD: 1 pound of fudge. Recipe is easily doubled and can be
frozen. VARIATIONS: HONEY BROWN SUGAR FUDGE: In Step 1, eleminate the
unsweetened chocolate and replace the molasses with 1/4 cup of honey. The
honey causes the fudge to ball at a higher temperature. CHOCOLATE HONEY
BROWN SUGAR FUDGE:  In Step 1, replace the heavy cream with light cream or
evaporated milk and replace the molasses with 1/4 cup of honey. ORANGE
BROWN SUGAR FUDGE: In Step 1, eleminate molasses, chocolate but add 1 Tbl
corn syrup.  In Step 6, add 1 Tbl grated orange zest, plus if you can get
it, 1 tsp of pure orange extract. PEANUT BUTTER BROWN SUGAR FUDGE: In Step
1, eliminate the molasses and chocolate, replace the heavy cream with 1/4
cup of milk and 1/4 cup of creamy peanut butter. To intensify the peanut
butter flavor, add 1/3 of a cup of salted peanuts in Step 9. PRALINE BROWN
SUGAR FUDGE:  In Step 1, eliminating the molasses is optional -- you'ss get
a more Southern praline with it, a milder one without it--or compromise and
use only 1 Tbls.  Eliminate the chocolate. In Step 3, when the mixture
begins to thicken, add 1 1/2 cups of pecan halves slowly so as not to break
the boil or cool the mixture too quickly.

