Title: Steamed Translucent Dumplings
Categories: Chinese, Appetizers
Yield: 30 servings
Sherry
1 1/2 ts Light soy sauce
2 ts Cornstarch
2 tb Chicken stock
2 tb Coarsely chopped fresh
Coriander leaves
1    Oil
Wheat Starch Wrappers
(see recipe)
Light soy sauce, for
Dipping
Chinese mustard, for
Dipping
6    Dried Chinese black
Mushrooms
6 oz Shrimp, shelled & deveined
1 ts Salt
1 1/2 tb Peanut oil
6 oz Ground pork butt
1/4 c  Finely diced bamboo shoots
1/4 c  Finely diced water
Chestnuts, preferably fresh
2    Green onions, chopped
2 ts Sugar
1/4 ts White pepper
1 tb Shao Hsing rice wine or dry
can be prepared entirely in advance and reheated a few minutes before
serving.  The wheat starch wrappers have an interesting chewy texture, a
unique translucent appearance and are absorbent of flavors. Roll out the
wrappers as thin as possible; otherwise they come out rubbery.

Cover mushrooms in warm water for 20 minutes or until soft and
pliable.  Remove and squeeze out excess water from the mushrooms. Cut off
the stems at the base and discard them. Finely mince the caps.

Toss the shrimp with salt and let them stand 10 minutes. Rinse well
with cold water, pat dry thoroughly. Coarsely mince.

Preheat a wok or skillet. when hot, add the peanut oil. over medium-
high heat, add the mushrooms, shrimps, pork butt, bamboo shoots, water
chestnuts, and half the green onions; stir-fry until the pork turns white.
Season with the sugar, white pepper, wine and soy sauce. Combine the
cornstarch and chicken stock in a small bowl and mix until smooth; pour
into wok. Stir fry for 1 minute longer. Remove the mixture to a shallow
plate and mix in the remaining green onion and coriander. Allow the filling
to cool, then refrigerate it until needed.

Makes almost 2 cups of filling.

Prepare the Wheat Starch Wrapper dough.  Pinch off 1-inch balls of
dough.  Lightly oil the ball and flatten it into a thin 3 1/2-inch circle.
An oiled Chinese cleaver is traditionally used; however, a tortilla press
or a rolling pin works.  Put 1 large teaspoon of filling in the center of
the circle.  Fold it in half and pinch the edges to seal the filling
inside.  Repeat with remaining dough and filling.

Place dumplings without touching each other on a lightly oiled bamboo
steamer (or a heat resistant plate). Steam over boiling water for 3
minutes. Serve hot, dipped in light soy sauce and Chinese mustard. Serve
with Chinese Mustard, for dipping.

Makes 2 1/2 dozen dumplings.

Posted by Stephen Ceideburg. Reposted by Fred Peters.

