Title: Accompaniment, Appetizer, or Dessert Salads
Categories: Fruit, Mixes, Mom's, Salads
Yield: 2 servings
MMMMM----------------SOURCE: MY MOTHER'S RECIPE C---------------------
-70's
Newspapers from the 40's to
MMMMM--------------------FROM : SALLIE KREBS-------------------------
GRAPEFRUIT ON THE HALF SHELL. Prepare grapefruit half as for
breakfast. Tuck endive or chicory around edge; sprinkle with grated
cheese; pass French dressing. Or sprinkle with sliced celery; dust
with paprika; serve with Roquefort French Dressing. Or place, in
center, tablespoonful of mint jelly, beaten with fork; chill; garnish
with watercress; serve with French dressing.

CANTALOUPE CIRCLE. Fill 1"-thick pared slice of seeded cantaloupe with
cut-up water cress tossed with Lemon French Dressing. Serve with
Camembert at room temperature.

FILLED AVOCADO. Halve, pare, pit, avocado; brush with lemon juice;
sprinkle with salt. Set each half on escarole; fill with one of
following fruit or cheese combinations, top with French dressing,
with curry, chutney, or horse-radish added. . Canned pineapple chunks
and cubes of unpared apple . Cut-up grapefruit and bits of shrimp .
Canned fruit cocktail with diced oranges . Cottage cheese with bits
of Roquefort . Cream cheese with powdered ginger

JUNE RING. Frost pineapple slice with cottage cheese, cream cheese, or
sour cream- place strawberries on top. Garnish with water cress. Pass
Lorenzo French Dressing.

MELON BOWL. Hollow out each half of honeyball melon. Fill with
berries, meat of melon, grapefruit or orange sections, then top with
sherbet. Tuck water cress or chicory around inside edge of melon.

ORANGE SHISH KABOBS. On skewers, string, alternately, orange chunks
and thick banana slices. Or use orange slices and pear or apple
slices. Decorate each with grape or cherry. If desired, dip each
skewer into Lemon French Dressing. Serve 2 skewers per person.

SALAD PICKUPS. On toothpicks, string bite-size chunks of orange,
pineapple, banana, or melon, plus folded lettuce leaf. Pile several
toothpicks on each plate. Serve with Mustard French Dressing.

MORE IDEAS. These are special when served with Two-Fruit French
Dressing or Celery Mayonnaise.

1. Grapefruit Sections: arranged on crisp lettuce, then sprinkled with
pomegranate seeds or thin slices of kumquat

2. Orange and onion Slices: arranged, alternately, with or without
pineapple slices, on crisp romaine leaf

3. Pineapple Ring: filled with chunks of Roquefort or blue cheese,
served on lettuce

4. Fresh Bing Cherries: pitted and served on crisp greens, sprinkled
with nuts

5. Peach Halves: filled with canned crushed pineapple, sprinkled with
chopped stuffed olives

Submitted By SALLIE KREBS   On   03-05-95

