Title: AN AGE-OLD OBSESSION 4
Categories: Information, Chocolate, Godiva
Yield: 1 servings   * By the year 1810, Venezuela was producing half the world's
requirements for cocoa, and one-third of all the cocoa produced in
the world was being consumed by the Spaniards.

* The invention of the cocoa press in 1828 by C.J. Van Houten, a
Dutch chocolate master, helped reduce the price of chocolate and
bring it to the masses. By squeezing out cocoa butter from the beans,
Van Houten's "dutching" was an alkalizing process.

* In his 1923 volume The Cocoa and Chocolate Industry, Arthur W.
Knapp attributes the rise in popularity of cocoa to these innovations:

The introduction by Van Houten of cocoa powder as we now know it.
The reduction of the duty to a low figure which remained constant
for a number of years.
The great improvements that have taken place in the methods of
transport.
Improvements in the manufacture of eating chocolate.

* Daniel Peter of Vevey, Switzerland, experimented for eight years
before finally inventing a means of making milk chocolate for eating
in 1876. He brought his creation to a Swiss firm that today is the
world's largest producer of chocolate: Nestle.

* In 1879 Rodolphe Lindt of Berne, Switzerland, produced chocolate
that melted on the tongue. He invented "conching," a means of heating
and rolling chocolate to refine it. After chocolate had been conched
for 72 hours and had more cocoa butter added to it, the original
"fondant" was created.

* Cadbury Brothers displayed eating chocolate in 1849 at an
exhibition in Bingley Hall at Birmingham, England.

* Swiss confiseur Jules Sechaud of Montreux introduced a process for
manufacturing filled chocolates in 1913.

* The New York Cocoa Exchange, located at the World Trade Center, was
begun October 1, 1925, so that buyers and sellers could get together
for transactions.

* Brazil and the Ivory Coast are leaders in the cocoa bean belt,
accounting for nearly half of the world's cocoa.

* While the United States leads the world in cocoa bean importation
and chocolate production, Switzerland continues as the leader in per
capita chocolate consumption.

* In 1980 a story of chocolate espionage hit the world press when an
apprentice of the Swiss company of Suchard-Tobler unsuccessfully
attempted to sell secret chocolate recipes to Russia, China, Saudi
Arabia, and other countries.

* By the 1990s, chocolate had proven its popularity as a product,
and its success as a big business. Annual world consumption of cocoa
beans averages approximately 600,000 tons, and per capita chocolate
consumption is greatly on the rise. Chocolate manufacturing in the
United States is a multibillion-dollar industry.  According to Norman
Kolpas (1978, p. 106), "We have seen how chocolate progressed from a
primitive drink and food of ancient Latin American tribes -- a part
of their religious, commerce and social life -- to a drink favored by
the elite of European society and gradually improved until it was in
comparably drinkable and, later, superbly edible. We have also
followed its complex transformation from the closely packed seeds of
the fruit of an exotic tree to a wide variety of carefully
manufactured cocoa and chocolate products. Beyond the historical,
agricultural and commercial, and culinary sides to chocolate, others:
affect on our health and beauty, and inspiration to literature and
the arts."

webmaster@godiva.com
Submitted By CHARLENE DEERING   On   03-13-95

