Title: AN AGE-OLD OBSESSION 3
Categories: Information, Chocolate, Godiva
Yield: 1 servings   * Prince Albert's Exposition in 1851 in London was the first time the
United States was introduced to bonbons, chocolate creams, hand
candies (called "boiled sweets"), and caramels.

* An 1891 publication on The Chocolate-Plant by Walter Baker a Co.
records that, "At the discovery of America, the natives of the
narrower portion of the continent bordering on the Caribbean Sea were
found in possession of two luxuries which have been everywhere
recognized as worthy of extensive cultivation; namely, tobacco and
chocolate."

* Chocolate was introduced to the United States in 1765 when John
Hanan brought cocoa beans from the West Indies into Dorchester,
Massachusetts, to refine them with the help of Dr. James Baker. The
first chocolate factory in the country was established there.

* Yet, chocolate wasn't really accepted by the American colonists
until fishermen from Gloucester, Massachusetts, accepted cocoa beans
as payment for cargo in tropical America.

* Where chocolate was mostly considered a beverage for centuries, and
predominantly for men, it became recognized as an appropriate drink
for children in the seventeenth century. It had many different
additions: milk, wine, beer, sweeteners, and spices. Drinking
chocolate was considered a very fashionable social event.

* Eating chocolate was introduced in 1674 in the form of rolls and
cakes, served in the various chocolate emporiums.

* In 1747 Frederick the Great issued an edict forbidding the hawking
of chocolate.

* By 1795, Dr. Joseph Fry of Bristol, England, employed a steam
engine for grinding cocoa beans, an invention that led to the
manufacture of chocolate on a large scale. Around 1847, Fry & Sons
sold a "Chocolat Delicieux a Manger," which is thought to be the
first chocolate bar for eating.

* Nestle (The History of Chocolate and Cocoa, p. 3) declares that
from 1800 to the present day, these four factors contributed to
chocolate's "coming of age" as a worldwide food product:

The introduction of cocoa powder in 1828;
The reduction of excise duties;
Improvements in transportation facilities, from plantation to
factory;
The invention of eating chocolate, and improvements in
manufacturing methods.
Submitted By CHARLENE DEERING   On   03-13-95

