Title: Artichoke Heart and Brin d'Amour Ravioli with Three-Peppe
Categories: Vegetables, Cheese/eggs, Pasta, Chilies
Yield: 2 servings
-Three-Pepper Sauce
Artichoke Heart and Brin
-d'Amour Ravioli with
MMMMM----------------SOURCE: GOURMET MAGAZINE, 02---------------------
MMMMM----------------------FOR THE FILLING---------------------------
-available
1/4 lb Brin d'amour (Corsican
-sheep's milk cheese,
at specialty foods shops), herbed coating discarded and the cheese
grated (about 1/3 cup) 2 tablespoons soft mild goat cheese, such as
Montrachet 1/4 cup finely chopped drained marinated artichoke hearts
For the sauce: 3 small red, yellow, or orange bell peppers, cut into
julienne strips 1 tablespoon olive oil 1 garlic clove, chopped 1/2
cup chicken broth 12 won ton wrappers (available at Oriental markets
and many supermarkets), thawed if frozen Make the filling: In a bowl
stir together well the cheeses, the artichoke hearts, and pepper to
taste and chill the filling for 1 hour, or until it is cold. Make the
sauce: In a large heavy skillet cook the bell peppers in the oil over
moderately low heat, stirring, until they are softened, stir in the
garlic and the broth, and simmer the mixture for 15 minutes. Transfer
about 2 tablespoons of the bell peppers with a slotted spoon to a
bowl and reserve them for garnish. In a blender puree the remaining
bell pepper mixture with salt and pepper to taste until it is smooth,
transfer the sauce to a small saucepan, and keep it warm, covered,
while preparing the ravioli. Cut out a heart from each won ton
wrapper with a heart-shaped cutter (about 3 inches at the widest
point). Put 1 heart on a lightly floured surface, mound 1 teaspoon of
the filling on each lobe of the heart, and brush the edges with
water. Put a second heart over the first, pressing down around the
filling to force out the air, and seal the edges well. Make ravioli
with the remaining wrappers and filling in the same manner,
transferring them as they are formed to a kitchen towel, and let them
dry slightly, turning them occasionally. Bring a large saucepan of
boiling salted water to a gentle boil and in it cook the ravioli for
2 minutes, or until they rise to the surface and are tender. (Do not
let the water boil vigorously once the ravioli have been added.)
Transfer the ravioli as they are cooked with a slotted spoon to a
kitchen towel to drain. Divide the sauce between 2 plates, arrange 3
ravioli on each plate, and garnish each serving with some of the
reserved bell peppers. Serves 2.

Submitted By SALLIE KREBS   On   02-23-95

