Title: ASH SAK (LAMB & SPINACH SOUP WITH MEATBALLS)
Categories: Middle east, Soup/stew, Main dish
Yield: 8 servings
MEATBALLS:
1/2 lb Lean ground lamb
2 tb Iranian rice; or raw, long
;grain rice, as noted above
2 tb Parsley; finely chopped
1 tb Yellow split peas, dried
1 ts Onion; finely chopped
1/4 ts Turmeric
1/2 ts Salt
1    Egg
.
GARNISH:
1/2 c  Olive oil
2 md Onion; peeled and cut into
;1/4 inch thick slices
6 tb Butter
4 tb Mint, fresh; finely cut or 2
;tablespoons dried mint
2 ts Turmeric
2 c  Yoghurt, unflavored; at room
;temperature
SOUP:
3 lb Meat lamb bones; sawed, not
;chopped, into 2 inch long
;pieces
6 c  Water
1/2 lb Spinach, fresh; washed,
;trimmed and finely chopped
;or 10 oz. pk chopped frozen
;spinach, defrosted
2 c  Parsley; finely chopped and
;preferably flat leaf
1 c  Onion; coarsely chopped
1/2 c  Iranian rice; or other long
;grain rice, raw, soaked and
;drained
1 tb Dill, fresh; finely cut or
;1 teaspoon dried dill weed
4 ts Salt
Black pepper; freshly ground
1/2 c  Yellow split peas, dried
1/2 ts Turmeric
.
Soup:
In a heavy 8 to 10 quart casserole, combine the lamb bones and
water and bring to a boil over high heat, meanwhile skimming off the
foam and scum as they rise to the surface.  Then stir in the spinach,
the 2 cups of parsley, 1 cup of onions, 1/2 cup of rice, dill, 4
teaspoon turmeric, cover tightly and simmer for 1 hour longer. (Check
the casserole form time to time and add more water if necessary; the
ingredients should be well covered with liquid throughout the cooking
period.)

Meatballs:
Combine the ground lamb, 2 tablespoons of rice, 2 tablespoons of
parsley, 1 tablespoon split peas, 1 teaspoon onion, 1/4 teaspoon
turmeric, 1/2 teaspoon salt and the egg in a deep bowl.  Knead
vigorously with both hands, then beat with a wooden spoon until
fairly smooth. Moistening your hands in cold water occasionally,
shape the mixture into balls about 1 inch in diameter.  (There will
be about 24 meatballs.)
When the soup has cooked for 2 hours, gently drop in the meatballs
and simmer tightly covered for about 30 minutes.

Garnish:
About 15 minutes before the meatballs are done, heat 1/2 cup of
olive oil in a heavy 10 to 12 inch skillet until a light haze forms
above it. Add the sliced onions and, stirring frequently, cook over
moderate heat for about 10 minutes, or until the onions are deeply
browned. Set aside.
In a small skillet or saucepan, melt the butter over low heat
without letting it brown.  Remove the pan from the heat and stir in
the mint and 2 teaspoons of turmeric.
For each serving, spoon about 1/4 cup of the yoghurt into a heated
soup plate and ladle 2 cups of soup over it.  Add 1 tablespoon of the
melted butter and mint mixture, and stir until all the ingredients
are well combined.  Arrange 3 of the meatballs in each serving or the
soup and sprinkle the top with a few of the browned onions.  Serve at
once.

Source: Time Life Series: Middle Eastern Cooking  "circa '69"

MMed by: earl.cravens@salata.com
Submitted By BARRY WEINSTEIN   On   02-22-95

