Title: BAKED HAM IN SAVORY PASTRY
Categories: Pork, Main dish
Yield: 40 servings
1/4 c  Sugar, brown
1 ts Soy sauce
2 T  Mustard, dry
12 lb Ham; fully cooked
2    Egg
4 c  Flour, sifted
1/2 lb Butter, sweet
1 ts Salt
1    Egg
1/2 c  ;Water, ice
1 c  Apricot jam
Approx. Cook Time:  6:00
Fat grams    per serving:

Place flour, butter, and salt in a medium sized bowl.  Cut in the
butter. Add the egg and combine.  Add the ice water, one tablespoon
at a time, beating constantly.  When the pastry makes balls, remove
to a lightly floured surface and shape into a ball.  Cover with waxed
paper and refrigerate for 45 minutes before rolling out.  Preheat
oven to 325 F. Warm jam in a saucepan over low heat.  Mix soy sauce
with mustard and add to jam along with brown sugar, stirring
constantly until the mixture is thoroughly blended and melted;
reserve.  Trim ham of dark outer skin, leaving about 4" around the
bone area.  Partially trim away the fat, leaving a 1/2" layer; score
the fat.  Place ham on a rack in a roasting pan; brush with apricot
glaze and bake two hours.
Remove and allow to cool one hour, while preheating oven to 400 F.
Using a sharp boning knife, cut off the top of the ham in a "well"
shape from shank to butt and back.  The knife should be inserted at a
45 degree angle, 4" to 5" below the shank until you reach the bone.
Use the bone as a guide and cut the ham to the bone, leaving a 2-1/2"
to 3" perimeter around the side of the ham.  The hip bone is in the
butt end and you will want to cut above this section when completing
the oval. The whole process should be completed in one cut.  Bring
the knife down snugly against the bone to release the oval.  Remove
the oval of ham and slice it thin. Replace the slices one by one,
filling the well. Place the ham on a baking sheet.

In a small bowl, lightly beat the eggs with two tablespoons water;
reserve. On a floured surface, roll out the pastry to a 1/8"
thickness. Drape the dough over the ham and tuck it in around the
base. Leaving a 1" flap around the base, cut away any excess dough
and reserve for decoration. Tuck the flaps underneath the ham. Brush
the entire ham with egg wash. Using excess dough, make a few "grape
leaves" and roll small balls of dough to about the size of peas to
look like grapes. Place a cluster of "grapes and leaves" on the
center of the ham and brush the ham again with the egg wash. Bake for
50 minutes or until pastry is a golden brown.  Carefully run a
spatula around the base and transfer the ham to a heated platter. Cut
away the crust from the oval area *only*, and serve the slices of the
ham with some of the crust.
Submitted By SAM WARING   On   02-26-95

