Title: Beer-Braised Beef With Onion Butter-Crumb Dumplings
Categories: Main dish
Yield: 6 servings
8    Allspice berries
3    Cloves
12 oz Dark beer
1 c  Beef broth, 13 3/4 oz plus
-- more as needed
2 ts Tomato paste
Onion butter-crumb dumplings
5 tb Unsalted butter
1/3 c  Onion; finely chopped
1 c  Flour
1 ts Baking powder
1/2 ts Baking soda
1/4 ts Salt
1/2 c  Buttermilk
2 tb Dill or parsley
-- chopped fresh
1/3 c  Bread crumbs; fresh
1/2 c  Vegetable oil
-- or as needed
3 lb Boneless lean beef, pref.
-- chuck, bttm rnd.; trim
-- and cube 1 1/2"
Salt and pepper, freshly
-- ground; to taste
5 md Yellow onions; coarsely
-- chopped
3    Carrots; thickly sliced
2    Or 3 garlic cloves
-- smashed & peeled
2    Sprigs thyme, fresh or
-- large pinch of dried
2    Sprigs parsley
1    Bay leaf
1    Hot chili pepper; dried
Recipe by: From The Farmers' Market - ISBN 0-06-055005-8

1. Preheat oven to 350°F. In a large casserole, heat 2 Tbs of oil over
high heat. Add enough meat to cover the bottom without crowding;
sprinkle with salt and pepper. Saute, tossing occasionally, until
well browned on all sides, 5 to 6 mins. Transfer to a plate and brown
the remaining meat in batches, adding oil as needed. Set the meat
aside.

2. Add the onions, carrots, and garlic to the casserole, tossing to
coat with oil. Lower the heat to medium and saute, tossing until
wilted and lightly golden, about 15 mins. Meanwhile, tie the thyme
and parsley sprigs, bay leaf, chili pepper, allspice berries, and
cloves in a piece of cheesecloth. Return the meat to the casserole
with the spice bag, beer, beef broth, and tomato paste. Bring the
mixture to a boil, stirring and scraping any browned bits from the
bottom of the casserole into the liquid. Cover the casserole tightly
with foil, then with the lid, and place it in the lower part of the
oven. Bake, stirring occasionally, until the beef is tender, 1 1/2 to
2 hrs.

3. Transfer the casserole to the top of the stove. Remove and discard
the spice bag. Degrease the stew thoroughly. Add more beef broth, or
water, if needed, to cover the meat. Correct seasonings. Bring the
stew to a simmer.

4. ONION BUTTER-CRUMB DUMPLINGS: Melt the butter in a small skillet.
Pour all but 1 Tbs of the melted butter into a small bowl; set aside.
Saute the onion in the remaining Tbs of butter until wilted but not
brown, about 5 mins. Meanwhile, sift the flour, baking powder, baking
soda, and salt into a mixing bowl. In a separate bowl, stir together
2 Tbs of melted butter, the buttermilk, dill, and sauteed onion. Make
a well in the center of the dry ingredients and add the buttermilk
mixture. Stir very gently just until moistened; do not over mix.

5. Combine the remaining 2 Tbs of melted butter with the bread
crumbs. Drop neat spoonfuls of the dumpling mixture into the crumb
mixture, gently turning the dumplings to coat. Drop the dumplings
onto the simmering stew, spacing them evenly. Cover the casserole
tightly and simmer 20 mins. Serve immediately.

NOTES : Great stew, mellow with the flavor of beer and onions. A
couple of
handfuls of quartered mushroom caps, quickly sauteed in butter,
can be add to the stew just before the dumplings.

