Title: Black Forrest Cherry Cake
Categories: Fruit, Cake/cookie, Aust/german, Chocolate
Yield: 8 servings
MMMMM---------------------FROM: KARIN BREWER--------------------------
1/2 c  Unsweetened cocoa
4 T  Butter, melted
5 ea Eggs
3/4 c  Granulated sugar
1 c  All-purpose flour, sifted
Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Butter and lightly flour bottom and
sides of a 9-inch springform pan. Beat eggs and sugar in the top of a
double boiler over simmering water, until foamy. Remove from heat and
continue to beat with an electric beater until thick, cold and
greatly increased in quantity. Sift flour and cocoa and sprinkle over
the egg mixture, folding it in gently with a rubber spatula. Slowly
add the melted butter. Do not overmix. Transfer the batter into
springform pan and bake for about 40 minutes, or until a cake tester
comes out dry. Cool the cake in the pan on a rack for 10 minutes. Run
a sharp knife around the edges and remove sides of pan. When cake is
completely cooled, divide horizontally into 3 layers. CREAM FILLING:
1 tbsp unflavored gelatin 1/4 cup cold water 2 cups heavy cream 3
tbsp confectioners' sugar 3 tbsp kirsch (cherry brandy) Soften
gelatin in cold water and heat gently until liquid is clear. Beat
cream until stiff, adding the dissolved gelatin in a thin stream as
you beat. Blend in sugar and kirsch. CHERRY FILLING: 1-lb can pitted
sour red cherries 2 tbsp vanilla pudding powder kirsch syrup (see
note) Drain cherries, reserving juice. Measure 1/2 cup of juice and
boil with vanilla pudding powder until thick and smooth. Add cherries
and bring to a quick boil. Remove from heat, set aside, and chill.
Note: To make kirsch syrup, mix remaining cherry juice with equal
amount of kirsch, and reserve. PARISIAN CREAM: 1 cup heavy cream 8 oz
semisweet chocolate, chopped Warm cream to 175 degrees, when bubbles
begin to appear around the edges. Melt chocolate in the hot cream and
cool. Whip until foamy. Parisian cream thickens very quickly and must
be used at once. To assemble, transfer the three cake layers to a
strip of waxed paper and sprinkle them evenly and lightly with kirsch
syrup. Let rest at least 5 minutes. Place one layer on a round
serving plate and surround with the springform pan sides. With a
pastry tube and large star tip, squeeze out Parisian cream to form 2
rings on top with a dollop in the middle. Fill the middle places with
half the cherry filling. Set the second layer on top, and repeat with
Parisian cream and cherry filling. Cover with third layer and remove
springform sides. Spread whipped cream-gelatin filling over top and
sides of cake. Garnish with chocolate curl, rosettes of whipped
cream, and maraschino cherries, stems up, in the center of each
rosette. Serves 8 to 10.

Submitted By PAT STOCKETT   On   02-28-95

