Title: Braised Veal Shanks with Porcini and Potatoes
Categories: Meats, Vegetables, Main dish
Yield: 4 servings
Thick slices
6    Veal shanks (1 inch thick)
All-purpose flour
1 c  Dry white wine
1 1/2 c  Canned beef broth
2 tb Fresh lemon juice
1 pk Frozen peas, thawed (10
-ounces)
3 tb Chopped fresh parsley
1 tb Chopped lemon peel
1 oz Dried porcini mushrooms
4 c  Hot water
4 tb Olive oil, divided
2 lg Onions, chopped
2    Cloves garlic, chopped
2 ts Dried rosemary
2    Bay leaves
1 lb Button mushrooms, sliced
3 lg Red-skinned potatoes, cut
-into 1/2-inch
Place the porcini and hot water in a bowl and let stand for about 30
minutes, until soft.  Drain, reserving the liquid.  Chop the porcini.

Preheat the oven to 350F.  Heat 2 tablespoons of the oil over medium
heat in a heavy large Dutch oven.  Add the onions, garlic, rosemary
and bay leaves.  Saute until tender, about 10 minutes.  Add the fresh
mushrooms, the porcini mushrooms and the potatoes.  Cook for 4
minutes, stirring occasionally.

Heat the remaining 2 tablespoons of oil in a large heavy skillet over
high heat.  Season the veal with salt and pepper and coat with flour.
Add to the skillet and brown well, about 4 minutes on each side.
Place on top of the vegetables in the Dutch oven.  Add the wine to
the skillet and bring to a boil, stirring up any browned bits from
the bottom.  Boil for about 3 minutes until the liquid is reduced by
half., then add to the Dutch oven. Add the porcini soaking liquid,
leaving any sediment behind. Add the beef broth and lemon juice.
Bring to a boil.  Cover and place in the oven. Bake until the veal is
tender, about 1 1/4 hours. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover and chill.)

Remove from the oven and uncover.  Cook over medium-high heat,
stirring occasionally,  until the liquid has thickened, about 15
minutes. Season with salt and pepper.  Remove and discard the bay
leaves. Add the peas and cook until heated through.

Mix the parsley and lemon peel in a bowl.  Top the stew with the
parsley mixture and serve.

Makes 4 servings.

[Taking It Easy; Karen Kaplan & Kristine Kidd] [Bon Appetit; March
1995]

Posted by Fred Peters.

