Title: Bucatini alla Matriciana or all'Amatriciana
Categories: Italian, Pasta
Yield: 4 servings
SERVES 4 TO 6
PASTA, AMATRICE STYLE
From Lazio
MMMMM----------------SOURCE: BUGIALLI ON PASTA; G---------------------
ISBN 0-671-62024-X
The famous all'amatriciana treatment, which originates in Amatrice,
near Rome, uses abundant pancetta or prosciutto as the meat. It is a
simple and highly spiced preparation with black pepper and hot red
pepper flakes. The dish is related to pasta alla carbonara, except
that tomatoes replace the eggs; and as in that treatment,
all'amatriciana employs grated cheese, though not as abundantly as
the other. This is certainly among the most popular recipes, for its
simplicity and excellence, so don't mess it up by adding extraneous
ingredients or by trying to be original. Its classic simplicity is
its strength. The substantial bucatini, with the hole down the
middle, is the preferred pasta where this preparation originates. 1
medium-sized red onion, peeled 8 ounces pancetta or prosciutto, in 1
piece 3 tablespoons olive oil 1 1/2 pounds very ripe, fresh tomatoes;
or 1 1/2 pounds canned tomatoes, preferably imported Italian, drained
1/2 teaspoon hot red pepper flakes Salt and freshly ground black
pepper 1 pound dried bucatini, vermicelli, or spaghetti, preferably
imported Italian TO COOK THE PASTA: Coarse-grained salt TO SERVE: 1/2
cup freshly grated pecorino romano or Parmigiano cheese Coarsely chop
the onion. Cut the pancetta or prosciutto into cubes less than 1/2
inch thick. Place the oil and pancetta in a medium-sized saucepan
over low heat and saute for 15 minutes, or until all the fat has been
rendered out and the meat is very crisp. If fresh tomatoes are used,
cut them into pieces. Pass the canned or fresh tomatoes through a
food mill, using the disc with the smallest holes, into a crockery or
glass bowl. Use a slotted spoon to transfer the meat to a plate and
set it aside until needed. Add the onion to the saucepan and saute
for 5 minutes, then add the tomatoes along with the red pepper flakes
and salt and black pepper to taste. Simmer for 20 minutes, stirring
every so often with a wooden spoon. Bring a large pot of cold water
to a boil, add coarse salt to taste then add the pasta and cook until
al dente, for 9 to 12 minutes depending on the brand. Transfer the
sauce to a large skillet set over low heat. Drain the pasta, and add
it to the skillet. Raise the heat, and add the reserved meat; saute
for 30 seconds. Remove the skillet from the heat, add the cheese, mix
very well, and transfer the pasta to a warmed serving platter. Serve
immediately. NOTE: In Italy, the cured meat used for this dish is
pork cheek (guanciala), not easily available elsewhere, rather than
pancetta or prosciutto. The dish is a rare example of the combination
of cheese and hot red pepper.

Submitted By SALLIE KREBS   On   03-11-95

