Title: Chicken & Sausage Paella
Categories: Low-cal/fat, Chicken
Yield: 10 servings
-cloves, sliced
3 c  Rice - long-grain white
12 ea Plum tomatoes, cored and
-sliced lengthwise
4 ea Sun-dried tomatoes packed
-in oil - drained and
Julienned
1/2 c  Whole green olives -
-unpitted (French or Calif.)
1 c  Parsley - fresh Italian,
-chopped
1/2 t  Saffron threads
1/2 t  Salt
1/2 t  Crushed red pepper flakes
4 ea Ears fresh corn - husked
-and cut into 2-inch pieces
3 ea Heads garlic - cloves
-peeled, heads intact
2 T  Olive oil
6 c  Chicken broth -- low fat
2 ea Whole chicken breasts -
-boned and skinned, cut into
2 x 1/2-inch strips
2 T  Paprika
1 lb Turkey sausage - cut into
-2-inch pieces
2 lg Onions - chopped
2 lg Red bell peppers - cored,
-seeded and cut into
2-inch pieces
4 md Zucchini - OR yellow squash
-OR eggplant, sliced
10 ea Clove garlic - large
1.  Trim the tops off the garlic heads with a sharp knife.  Place the
garlic, 1 tablespoon olive oil, and 1/2 cup of chicken broth in a
small saucepan.  Bring to a boil over medium-high heat.  Reduce the
heat and simmer for 30 minutes, basting frequently or until the
garlic is soft. Set aside. 2. Preheat the oven to 350F. 3. Season the
chicken on all sides with paprika.  In a very large ovenproof skillet
with 3-inch sides, heat the remaining olive oil over medium-high
heat. Brown the chicken on all sides, about 5 minutes altogether.
Remove the chicken to a large plate and drain off the oil. 4. Brown
the sausage on all sides in the skillet, about 8 minutes. Drain off
the oil. Add to the chicken. 5. In the oil remaining in the skillet,
saute the onion, pepper, zucchini and garlic until the vegetables
start to brown slightly. Add the rice and stir until the rice starts
to brown, about 5 minutes. 6. Add the plum tomatoes, sun-dried
tomatoes, olives, and 1/2 cup parsley to the rice mixture. 7. Combine
the saffron, salt, and red pepper flakes with the remaining chicken
broth, and pour over the rice.  Stir to combine and turn the heat to
high. 8. Return the chicken and sausage to the skillet.  Bury the
whole garlic heads in the middle of the skillet, along with any
chicken broth left in the saucepan. Bring to a boil. 9. Place the
skillet immediately into the oven, uncovered, and bake for 30
minutes. Remove the skillet; add the corn, pushing the pieces into
the rice mixture. Return to the oven and bake for another 30 minutes.
10. Remove the skillet, sprinkle with remaining parsley, and serve
immediately, directly from the skillet. NOTE: Carefully lift the
whole garlic heads and pass them at the table to spread on French
bread.

Serves 10.

490 Carbohydrates: 70 g Protein: 3 g Cholesterol: 44
2 g/25% fat calories
Calories:
mg Fat/% Fat:

Source: Great Good Food by Julee Rosso

per serving: 490
Approx. Cook Time: Cholesterol per
Calories
grams per serving:  2g
serving: 44mg Marks:

Submitted By MICHELLE BASS   On   09-24-93
Submitted By BARRY WEINSTEIN   On   03-02-95

