Title: CHOCOLATE MINT TERRINE 2
Categories: Desserts, Chocolate, Godiva
Yield: 10 servings  Continued from Part 1......

Make the mint mousse:

In a chilled, large bowl, using a hand-held electric mixer set at
medium-high speed, whip the cream until soft mounds start to form.
Refrigerate until needed.

In a 4 1/2-quart bowl of an electric mixer, using the wire whip
attachment, beat the egg, yolk, and salt at medium speed until
blended.
While continuing to beat, add the sugar in a steady stream. Beat
in the
creme de menthe. Remove the bowl from the mixer stand and place
over a
pot of hot water. (The bottom of the bowl must touch the water.)
Cook
over medium-high heat, whisking constantly for 3 to 5 minutes, or
until
the granules of sugar have dissolved and the yolk mixture has
reached
140 degrees F on an instant-read thermometer. Return the bowl to
the
mixer stand and beat at medium-high speed until the mixture is
thick and
pale yellow, about 8 minutes.

Place the 2 tablespoons water in a small cup. Sprinkle the
gelatin over
the water and let it stand for 5 minutes to soften the gelatin.

Place the cup with the softened gelatin in a saucepan with enough
water
to come halfway up the side of the cup. Heat the gelatin mixture
over
hot, not simmering, water. Stir the gelatin frequently for 3 to 4
minutes, or until the gelatin granules dissolve completely and the
mixture is clear. Remove the pan from the heat. Leave the cup
containing
the gelatin mixture in the hot water to keep the gelatin warm
until
ready to use.

Remove the egg mixture from the mixer stand and, using a large
whisk,
gradually whisk the gelatin in by hand. Using a large rubber
spatula,
gently fold one-third of the whipped cream into the egg mixture to
lighten it. Fold in the remaining whipped cream.

Assemble the terrine:

Remove the loaf pan from the freezer. Pour half of the mint
mousse over
the layer of chilled chocolate mousse and spread it level with a
small
offset metal spatula. Place the pan in the freezer for 5 minutes.

Remove the pan from the freezer. Pour a thin layer of chocolate
mousse
over the mint mousse layer and gently spread it in an even layer.
Return
the pan to the freezer for 5 minutes. Pour the remaining mint
mousse
over the chocolate layer and spread evenly. Return the pan to the
freezer for 10 minutes. Remove the pan from the freezer and pour
enough
of the remaining chocolate mousse over the mint mousse layer to
fill the
pan to the same level as the ganache coating. Refrigerate the
remaining
chocolate mousse, reserving it for garnish. Cover the pan with
plastic
wrap and place it in the freezer for 1 hour. Refrigerate the
terrine
until ready to unmold.

Unmold and garnish the terrine:

Cut an 8 1/2-by-4 1/2-inch piece of stiff cardboard and cover with
aluminum foil. Cut a piece of parchment or waxed paper to fit the
surface of the exposed filling. Press the paper onto the filling
to
adhere. Dip the pan up to the top rim in very hot water for 20
seconds.
Remove the pan from the water and immediately wipe dry. Place the
foil-covered piece of cardboard over the pan and carefully invert
the
pan. Gently remove the pan from the terrine and smooth the sides
and top
with a small metal spatula. Place the terrine in the freezer while
preparing the glaze.

Place the bowl containing the reserved ganache over a pot of hot
water.
Cook over medium heat, stirring the ganache with a wooden spoon,
just
until the ganache is fluid.

Place the terrine on a wire rack set over a baking sheet. Pour the
ganache over the terrine, covering it completely. Refrigerate the
terrine on the wire rack for 5 to 10 minutes, until the glaze is
set.

Fill a pastry bag fitted with a star tip (such as Ateco #5) with
the
reserved chocolate mousse. Pipe a row of rosettes down the length
of the
top of the terrine and around its base. Garnish with mint leaves.
Refrigerate the terrine until ready to serve.

webmaster@godiva.com
Submitted By CHARLENE DEERING   On   03-13-95

