Title: CHOCOLATE GUIDE Part 2
Categories: Information, Chocolate, Godiva
Yield: 1 servings  Tempering Instructions Chop the chocolate into 1/4-inch chunks. Put
half of the chocolate in a 1 1/2 quart microwave-safe bowl. (Use a 1
quart bowl when tempering 8-ounces of chocolate or less. When
tempering more than 2 pounds of chocolate, use a larger bowl.)
Microwave uncovered on MEDIUM (50 percent) power for 1 1/2 to 6
minutes, stirring every 1 1/2 minutes, until the chocolate is
completely melted and smooth. Stir in the remaining chocolate chunks.

Microwave uncovered on MEDIUM (50 percent) power for 1 1/2 to 5
minutes, stirring every 60 seconds, until the chocolate is almost
completely melted. Gently stir the chocolate and when it is c
ompletely melted, check the temperature. It should read between 110
and 120 degrees F (or the temperature recommended by the
manufacturer.) If necessary, put the chocolate back in the microwave
set on low (10 percent) power for 5 to 10 second intervals, until it
reaches the correct temperature. (Stir the chocolate for at least 1
minute before checking the temperature.)

Transfer the melted chocolate to another 1 1/2-quart (or a smaller or
larger bowl depending on the amount of chocolate being tempered.)
This will bring the temperature of the chocolate down to
approximately 100 degrees F.

Wrap a heating pad (normally used for backaches) in plastic to
protect it from chocolate stains. Set the control dial to the lowest
setting. Pour one-third of the melted chocolate onto a clean, dry
work surface (such as marble or Formica). Keep the remaining
chocolate in the bowl on the heating pad.

Using an offset metal cake spatula, spread the chocolate evenly
across the work surface into a rectangle. Using a pastry scraper,
bring the chocolate together, and as you do so, scrape the chocolate
off the spatula. Continue this spreading and scraping process until
the chocolate cools to 80 to 82 degrees F for milk and white
chocolates and 82 to 84 degrees F for dark chocolate, loses its shine
and forms a thick paste with a dull matte finish. Work quickly so
that the chocolate does not lump. This process can take anywhere from
2 to 10 minutes, depending on the amount of chocolate, the type and
brand of chocolate as well as the temperature of the kitchen. The
chocolate is now seeded. The professional term for this is _mush._

Add the mush to the bowl of 100 degrees F chocolate and using a
clean, dry rubber spatula, stir the chocolate gently, until smooth .
Be careful not to create air bubbles as you stir the chocolate.

Check the temperature of the chocolate. It should register between 86
and 91 degrees F depending on the type and brand of chocolate. (In
general, dark chocolate should register between 86 to 90 degrees F
and milk and white chocolates should register between 86 to 89
degrees F.) If necessary, heat the bowl of chocolate in the microwave
on LOW (10 percent) power for 5 to 10 second intervals, to raise the
temperature the required number of degrees. (Stir the chocolate for
at least 1 minute before checking the temperature.  Be very careful
not to overheat the chocolate.) The chocolate is now ready to work
with. As you work, regularly stir the chocolate and check its
temperature. Adjust the temperature and fluidity of the chocolate by
turning the heating pad on and off. If for some reason the chocolate
becomes too cold, simply reheat it in the microwave oven set on LOW
(10 percent) power for 5 to 10 second intervals. (Stir the chocolate
for at least 1 minute before rechecking the temperature.) Never let
its temperature exceed 92 degrees F, or the stable cocoa butter
crystals will start to melt and the temper will be lost.

Eggs: In recognition of the growing concern over the presence of
salmonella bacteria in some raw eggs, Chocolatier is adapting recipes
that traditionally have used uncooked or lightly cooked eggs. The
full extent of the risk is still being studied, but regulatory
agencies such as the USDA and FDA have advised against eating any
foods containing uncooked or lightly cooked eggs, egg yolks or egg
whites. Because salmonella bacteria is killed in eggs cooked to 160
degrees F, Chocolatier's recipes for such desserts as mousses and
buttercreams now include the extra step of cooking a sugar syrup to
at least 240 degrees F (soft ball stage) and pouring it over the eggs
to raise their temperature sufficiently. Chocolatier believes that an
awareness of the potential risk of salmonella poisoning is the best
defense against it.

webmaster@godiva.com
Submitted By CHARLENE DEERING   On   03-13-95

