Title: CHOCOLATE MINT TERRINE 1
Categories: Desserts, Chocolate, Godiva
Yield: 10 servings
1 ts UNFLAVORED POWDERED GELATIN
MINT MOUSSE:
3/4 c  HEAVY CREAM
1    LARGE EGG PLUS 1 LARGE
-EGG YOLK
ds SALT
1/3 c  GRANULATED SUGAR
1/4 c  WHITE CREME DE MENTHE
2 ts UNFLAVORED POWDERED GELATIN
2 tb WATER
GARNISH:
MINT LEAVES (OPTIONAL)
GANACHE COATING:
6 oz BITTERSWEET CHOCOLATE,
-FINELY CHOPPED
1/2 c  HEAVY CREAM
1/4 c  WHITE CREME DE MENTHE
DARK CHOCOLATE MOUSSE:
8 oz BITTERSWEET CHOCOLATE
2 tb UNSALTED BUTTER
1 c  HEAVY CREAM
2    LARGE EGGS
3 tb WATER, DIVIDED
ds SALT
1/3 c  GRANULATED SUGAR
Make the ganache coating:

Place a 8 1/2-by-4 1/2-by-2 3/4-inch non-stick metal loaf pan in the
freezer while preparing the ganache coating.

Place the chocolate in a medium bowl. In a small saucepan, set over
medium heat, bring the cream to a gentle boil. Pour the hot cream
over the chocolate. Let the mixture stand for 30 seconds to melt the
chocolate. Gently whisk until smooth. Stir in the creme de menthe.

Remove the pan from the freezer. Pour half of the ganache into the
pan. Quickly begin rotating the pan slowly, allowing the ganache to
coat the inside of the pan evenly over the bottom and sides. Allow
any excess ganache to drip back into the bowl. Return the pan to the
freezer for 5 minutes.  Remove the pan from the freezer and, using a
small metal spatula, spread additional ganache over the sides of the
pan only. Return the pan to the freezer. Cover the remaining ganache
with plastic wrap and reserve at room temperature for glazing the
terrine.

Make the dark chocolate mousse:

Melt the chocolate with the butter according to the instructions
given in the Chocolate Key. Set aside to cool. In a chilled, large
bowl, using a hand-held electric mixer set at medium-high speed, whip
the cream until soft mounds start to form. Refrigerate until needed.
In a 4 1/2-quart bowl of an electric mixer, using the wire whip
attachment, beat the eggs, 1 tablespoon of the water, and salt at
medium speed until blended. While continuing to beat, add the sugar
in a steady stream. Remove the bowl from the mixer stand and place
over a pot of hot water. (The bottom of the bowl must touch the
water.) Cook over medium-high heat, whisking constantly for 3 to 5
minutes, or until the granules of sugar have dissolved and the egg
mixture has reached 140 degrees F on an instant-read thermometer.
Return the bowl to the mixer stand and beat at medium-high speed
until the mixture is thick and pale yellow, about 8 minutes.

Place the remaining 2 tablespoons of water in a small heatproof cup.
Sprinkle the gelatin over the water and let it stand for 5 minutes to
soften the gelatin.

Place the cup with the softened gelatin in a saucepan with enough
water to come halfway up the side of the cup. Heat the gelatin
mixture over hot, not simmering, water. Stir the gelatin frequently
for 3 to 4 minutes, or until the gelatin granules dissolve completely
and the mixture is clear. Remove the pan from the heat. Leave the cup
containing the gelatin mixture in the hot water to keep the gelatin
warm until ready to use.

Remove the egg mixture from the mixer stand and, using a large whisk,
quickly whisk the gelatin in by hand. Using a large rubber spatula,
gently fold one-third of the whipped cream into the egg mixture to
lighten it. Fold in the remaining whipped cream.

Remove the loaf pan from the freezer. Pour one-third of the chocolate
mousse into the pan and, using a small offset metal spatula, spread
the mousse in an even layer. Return the loaf pan to the freezer. Set
the remaining chocolate mousse aside in a cool place, but do not
refrigerate.

Continued.......
Submitted By CHARLENE DEERING   On   03-13-95

