Title: Coucou Bademjan (Thick Eggplant and Egg Pancake
Categories: Middle east, Vegetables
Yield: 4 servings
1 c  Water
1 ts Turmeric
1 ts Salt
Black pepper; freshly ground
4    Egg
7 tb Olive oil
1 md Onion; peeled and cut into
;1/8 inch slices
1    Eggplant; (about « lb.)
;peeled and cut into 1 inch
;cubes
In a heavy 8 to 10 inch skillet, heat 4 tablespoons of the olive
oil over moderate heat until a light haze forms above it.  Add the
onions and, stirring frequently, cook for 8 to 10 minutes, or until
the slices are deeply browned.  Transfer the onions to a plate and
set aside.
Add the eggplant and 1 tablespoon of the remaining oil to the
skillet and toss the cubes about to coat them well.  Stir in the
water, turmeric, salt and a few grindings of pepper, and bring to a
boil over high heat. Reduce the heat to low, cover the skillet
tightly, and simmer for 10 minutes, or until the cubes of eggplant
are tender and show no resistance when pierced with the point of a
small, sharp knife.
Return the onions to the skillet and, stirring frequently, cook
briskly until almost all of the liquid in the pan has evaporated.
Transfer the eggplant and onions to a deep mixing bowl and cool to
room temperature. Taste for seasoning.
One at a time beat the eggs into the mixture.  In a heavy 10 inch
skillet, heat the remaining 2 tablespoons of oil over moderate heat
until a light haze forms above it.  Pour in the eggplant mixture,
cover tightly and cook over low heat for 4 or 5 minutes, or until the
outside edges of the pancake are firm but the center is still moist.
Run a knife around the circumference of the pan to free the
pancake. Then cut it into 4 pie shaped wedges.  Continue cooking for
1 or 2 minutes more, shaking the pan back and forth gently.
When the center of the pancake is firm, cover the skillet with a
flat plate and, grasping the plate and skillet firmly together,
invert them and turn the pancake out on the plate.  Then carefully
slide the pancake back into the pan.  Cover again and cook 4 to 5
minutes more to brown the underside.  Slide the coucou out of the pan
to a serving plate and serve hot or cold, accompanied, if you like,
with "borani" or with either thinly sliced tomatoes or radishes.

71 of 116

Time Life Series: Middle Eastern Cooking,  "circa  69"

MMed by: earl.cravens@salata.com
Submitted By EARL CRAVENS   On   02-25-95

