Title: Country French Bread
Categories: Breadmaker, Breads
Yield: 1 servings
2 T  Medium rye flour
2 T  Whole wheat flour
3 T  Instant dry milk
1 1/2 t  Bread machine yeast
2/3 c  Water (70 to 80 degrees)
1/4 c  Plain yogurt
3/4 t  Salt
2 c  Bread flour
Note:  You can let your bread machine do all of the work, or leave the
dough in the machine for the mixing and first-rise steps, then take
it out and shape it into French loaves.  Another short rising period
and your bread is ready to bake.

BREAD MACHINE DIRECTIONS: Add all ingredients to bread machine pan in
the order suggested by the manufacturer, adding yogurt with water.
Process in basic/white bread cycle; medium/normal color setting.
Remove baked bread from pan and cool on wire rack.

Makes one one-pound loaf.

COUNTRY FRENCH LOAVES: Combine ingredients in pan as directed above.
Process in dough/manual cycle. When cycle is complete, remove dough
from machine to lightly floured surface. If necessary, knead in
enough flour to make dough easy to handle. Divide dough into two
equal pieces. Roll each piece to a 12-by-6-inch oval. Beginning at
long ends, roll up tightly. Pinch seams and ends to seal.  Taper ends
by gently rolling back and forth. Place, seam sides down, on large
greased baking sheet. Cover, let rise in warm, draft-free place until
doubled in size, about 20 to 40 minutes. With sharp knife, make four
diagonal slashes (1/4-inch deep) on top of each loaf.  Lightly beat
one egg white; brush on loaves.  Bake at 400F for 20 to 25 minutes or
until done.  Remove from sheet and cool on wire rack.

Makes 2 loaves.

TIPS:   To measure flour and yogurt:  spoon into standar dry
ingredient measuring cup and level with a straight-edged knife.

FOR 1-1/2 POUND LOAF:   The above recipe is designed for a bread
machine pan that holds 8-1/2 cups or less of water.  If 1-1/2-pound
loaf is desired, increase recipe to use:

1 cup water 1/3 cup yogurt 1 teaspoon salt 3 cups bread flour 3
tablespoons rye flour 3 tablespoons whole wheat flour 1/4 cup instant
dry milk 2 teaspoons yeast

If making loaves, roll into a 15-by-7-inch oval.

Source: Times-Picayune - March 2, 1995

per serving:
Approx. Cook Time: Cholesterol per
Calories
grams per serving:
serving: Marks:

Submitted By MICHELLE BASS   On   03-02-95

