Title: Fresh Tuna Hero
Categories: Seafood, Sandwich
Yield: 1 servings
-baguette (see note)
2 tb Extra-virgin olive oil
4    Thin slices red onion
2 oz Thin string beans (stem
-ends trimmed), blanched
4 lg Slices ripe tomato
1    Roasted red bell pepper,
-quartered lengthwise (see
-recipe)
1 tb Chopped flat-leaf parsley
6 lg Cloves of garlic
1 tb White wine
2 tb Plus 1 teaspoon pure olive
-oil
-Salt and freshly ground
-black pepper, to taste
1/2 lb Tuna steak, 1 1/2 inches-
-thick
4    French bread rolls, about 5
-inches long, or 1 long
Fresh tuna is readily available at all fish markets and in most
supermarkets today. The freshest, best tuna has deep red flesh. If
the tuna is turning dark around the edges, don't buy itQit's not
fresh.

1. Preheat oven to 350!F.

2 Cut off about 1/4 inch from the top of each clove of garlic;
discard. Place garlic cloves in a small ramekin. Drizzle with white
wine and I teaspoon pure olive oil. Sprinkle with salt and pepper,
cover with foil and bake for 1 hour, or until garlic is soft. Remove
and cool to room temperature.

3. Sprinkle both sides of tuna with black pepper. Heat remaining 2
tablespoons pure olive oil in a non stick skillet. Sear tuna over
medium-high heat and cook for 3 minutes per side for medium rare.
Remove from pan, cool and cut crosswise into 8 thin slices. Reserve.

4 Slice the top third off each roll, lengthwise; reserve tops. Hollow
out the center of each roll. Brush insides with the extra-virgin
olive oil. Squeeze the roasted garlic cloves from their skins and
spread over the inside of each roll.

5. To assemble sandwiches, lay 2 slices of tuna along bottom of each
roll; cover with slice of onion. Next, lay string beans lengthwise.
Top each with a slice of tomato and roasted pepper, pressing down on
ingredients. Sprinkle evenly with black pepper and parsley. Cover
rolls with reserved tops; press down again. To ensure that the
sandwich is perfectly moist, wrap tightly in plastic wrap and
refrigerate 2 to 3 hours before serving. From the files of Al Rice,
North Pole Alaska.    Feb 1994

