Title: Grain Info and Cooking Chart 11
Categories: Information
Forms of Teff
Yield: 1 info

Teff comes in three colors: red, brown and white. White is the most
delicate and the mildest of the three. The red and brown have a
richer, nuttier flavor.

Whole Grains: Makes a tasty breakfast cereal. There is no need to
presoak the grains, but they should be cooked long enough to make the
grains burst open. If they are not cooked long enough, the bran layer
will not open and the grain will stay intact.

Teff Flour: Now being sold by Maskal Forges in health food stores and
by mail order.

Teff Pasta: Maskal Forges is still experimenting with a line of
pastas. There are currently three kinds:
:    50% teff, 50% whole-wheat
:    50% teff, 50% semolina
:    wheat-free: 50% teff, 50% wild rice

Whole Grain Teff
Type of Grain:
1 C. dry

Amount of Liquid:  3 C.

Cooking Method:    Method 1: In a 2-qt. saucepan, melt 2 tbs.
butter and toast grain, stirring constantly
until you smell a pleasant fragrance. Add
boiling salted water. Return to boil, then
cover and simmer over very low heat,
stirring toward the end of cooking time.

Method 2: In a 2-qt. saucepan, bring salted
water to a boil. Slowly add grains,
stirring constantly. Return to boil and
simmer, covered, stirring toward end of
cooking time.

15 minutes Standing Time:
:Cooking and

3 C.
Approx Yield:

The grain will be very thick after cooking.
Comments:
When toasted, has a mellow taste and a
natural sweetness, plus a crunchy texture.
The untoasted has a milder flavor but the
same texture.

Forms of Tritacale

Whole Grain Berries or Groats: Whole berries can also be cracked just
like wheat berries to shorten the cooking time, or they can be
sprouted for a more nutritious addition to breads or soups.

Triticale Flour: The gluten content is very low; best results in
baking come with the addition of 50% unbleached white or whole- wheat
flour.

Whole Grain Triticale Berries or Groats
Type of Grain:
1 C. dry

Amount of Liquid:  3 C.

Cooking Method:    Soak berries overnight in 3 C. water. Drain
berries, reserving soaking water. Measure
and add enough additional water to make 3
C. Do not add salt. Use a 3-qt. saucepan
and bring water to a boil. Add soaked
berries and return to boil. Lower heat and
simmer.

1 hour 10 minutes Standing Time:
:Cooking and
Let stand 5 minutes.

2 1/2 C.
Approx Yield:

Salt prevents the absorption of liquid.
Comments:
Salt after cooking. The berries will be
tender with a slightly pleasant crunch.

The Versatile Grain
and the
Elegant Bean
by Sheryl and Mel London
ISBN 0-671-76106-4
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   03-16-95

