Title: Grain Info and Cooking Chart 9-2
Categories: Information
Rice Products
Yield: 1 info

Rice Bran: The outside brown layer of the rice kernel that contains
the bran and a small part of the germ. Very high in dietary fiber,
nearly twice that of oat bran.

Rice Bran Oil: Current studies (conducted only on monkeys, so far)
seem to indicate that it can raise the high-density "good"
lipoprotein while reducing the "bad" low-density lipoprotein, thus
also reducing the harmful cholesterol.

Rice Cakes and Rice Crackers: The cakes are generally made from
puffed rice while the crackers are baked with rice flour.

Rice Cream: Coarsely ground rice, generally used for breakfast cereal
or pudding.

Rice Polish: The flour taken off the rice during the process of making
white rice. It also contains small parts of the germ and the bran,
with a high content of vitamins, iron and fiber. Use it in baked
goods in very much the same way as corn or wheat germ.

Puffed Rice: The rice is puffed under pressure and then expanded by
filling the grains with air. Makes an excellent cold breakfast cereal
and can also be used to make cakes and candy.

Rice Vinegar: Used in Japan as an accompaniment for sushi and other
dishes. The Chinese also use it as a seasoning. Comes in various
strengths and colors.

Rice Flakes: Heated and pressed flat under pressure, they are
processed in much the same way as rolled oats, but they're a bit
thicker.

Rice Flour: Available in white or brown. Can be used as a thickener
for puddings or in a variety of baked dishes. Since it has no gluten,
it's a perfect product for those with wheat allergies. Mix with other
gluten flours for baking and cooking. It has a much silkier texture
than the wheat flours.

Rice Meal: The rice is ground and generally mixed with rice cream to
make a breakfast cereal.

Rice Noodles: Made from rice flour, it comes in various thicknesses.

Rice paper (banh trang): Thin rounds or triangles of dried rice dough
soaked and used as wrappers for certain traditional Vietnamese dishes.

Rice Syrup: An organic brown rice sweetener produced by the Lundberg
Family Farms.

Rice Tea (toasted): There are two versions: the Japanese (genmai cha)
and the Chinese (sao my cha) and it is generally mixed with an equal
amount of green tea (matsu-cha) before brewing. It is served hot and
has a somewhat nutty flavor.

Rice Wine: The most commonly known Japanese form is sake. The Chinese
use it for both cooking and drinking while the Japanese have a
special sweet form (mirin) used for cooking.

White Rice
Type of Grain:
1 C. dry

Cooking Method:    Use 2-qt. saucepan and 2 C. salted water
(1/4 to 1/2 tsp. salt), 1 tsp. to 1 tbs.
butter (opt). Bring to boil, stir in rice,
return to boil, cover, lower heat and
simmer. Do not stir the rice or peek while
it is cooking and let the steam escape.

15-18 minutes Standing Time:
:Cooking and
Let stand 5 minutes.

Fork-fluff after standing.

3 1/4 C.
Approx Yield:

The amount of water and the cooking and
Comments:
standing time will vary depending on the
rice variety used.

The Versatile Grain
and the
Elegant Bean
by Sheryl and Mel London
ISBN 0-671-76106-4
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   03-16-95

