Title: Grain Info and Cooking Chart 12-1
Categories: Information
Forms of Wheat
Yield: 1 info

Whole Grain Wheat Berries: The whole grains of wheat. After soaking,
the berries can be soaked and used for pilafs, stews or as a crunchy
addition to breads. When they're sprouted, they can be made into
croquettes or added to salads or baked goods.

Whole Peeled Wheat Berries: Pale golden in color with only the outer
hull removed. Can be used in desserts or eaten as a pilaf or
breakfast cereal. Can also be added to baked good or soups; they have
a gelatinous quality and a delicate flavor when cooled.

Whole Green Wheat Berries: The kernels of wheat picked while still
unripened and then dried. They have a grassy flavor and are commonly
used for casseroles, soups, stews and pilafs. Be sure to spread the
grains out and pick over them to remove foreign matter before using.
Available in health food stores, specialty shops or by mail order.

Cracked Wheat: Whole wheat berries that have been cracked into coarse
or medium granulation. Use for cereals, casseroles, soups or as a meat
extender. Cracked wheat is often confused with bulgur. To identify and
distinguish cracked wheat, note that the interior of the uncooked
grain is white; bulgur is uniform in color.

Bulgur: Whole wheat that has been washed, steamed, hull removed, then
parched or dry-cooled. It is then cracked or sifted into its basic
forms. Cracked wheat is uncooked, while bulgur is essentially
"precooked", so they are handled quite differently.

Whole Wheat Grits: The wheat berries are cracked into six or eight
pieces, the same process as that used for cracked wheat. However,
since the grits are finer, they cook more quickly.

Shredded Whole Wheat: Manufactured commercially in several forms,
including large biscuits and small bite-sized morsels.

Whole Unprocessed Bran Flakes: Sometimes called Miller's Bran, it is
the outer layer of the hard wheat kernel or berry. It's used to add
extra fiber to baked goods or it can be sprinkled on hot or cold
cereals. Buy the unprocessed variety.

Wheat Germ: The untreated natural embryo of the wheat berry. Ready to
eat, either raw or toasted, and can be used for breading, as a meat
extender or for nutritional enhancement in baked goods. Wheat germ
must be refrigerated after opening, since the germ contains oils that
will quickly turn rancid at room temperature.

Whole Wheat flakes or Rolled Wheat: These are wheat berries that are
heated and pressed in the same manner as rolled oats. The flakes are
quick-cooking and can be used as a cooked cereal or scattered on the
surface of baked goods.

Puffed Wheat: The whole wheat berry is heated and then puffed up with
air. Ready to eat as is and requires no cooking. Can be eaten as a
breakfast cereal or added to baked goods and candy.

Cream of Wheat: Sometimes called farina. It is finely ground, hulled
wheat that still contains the germ and the endosperm. Only the outer
bran layer is missing. Used as a hot breakfast cereal and for
desserts and dumplings.

Wheatina: A finely ground whole grain cereal that includes the bran.

Wheat Grass: It is made from the young wheat plant cut at the moment
that the embryo is moving up from the roots through the stalk about
twenty days after sprouting. At that point, it has a high
concentration of nutrients, quite similar in quality to green, leafy
vegetables. Generally available only in natural food stores and by
mail order in powdered from, in tablets and as a seasoning to
sprinkle on food.

The Versatile Grain
and the
Elegant Bean
by Sheryl and Mel London
ISBN 0-671-76106-4
Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   03-16-95

