Title: Home Cured Corned Beef
Categories: Can/preserv, Meats
Yield: 4 servings
2 tb Whole coriander seeds
2 tb Whole peppercorns
1 tb Whole mustard seeds
1/4 c  Brown sugar
4 lb Beef roast
4 tb Curing salt
6 ea Garlic cloves, peeled
3 ea Bay leaves
1/8 ts Whole cloves (3)
Combine garlic, bay leaves, cloves, coriander seeds, peppercorns, and
mustard seed in blender.  Blend until coarsly chopped. (Note: works
just as well to leave spices whole, just break up the bay leaves a
little). Add brown sugar. Set aside.

Trim roast (venison, beef, etc.), weigh and measure ONE LEVEL
TABLESPOON of curing salt PER POUND OF MEAT. (Note: I use Morton's
TenderQuick <tm>.)

Add measured curing salt to spice mixture you set aside. Rub spice
mixture into roast, pressing in well.

Measure roast at thickest point. Place into heavy freezing bag and
close securely.  Place in shallow pan in refrigerator. Cure 5 days
per inch of measured thickness, turning bag daily.

At end of curing time wrap and freeze or cook in your favorite corned
beef recipe.

To cook: Drain juices, if desired rinse thoroughly under cold running
water to remove extra salt and spice pieces, wrap in foil and bake
sealed at 300 degrees 2 to 3 hours or until tender. Or use in any
corned beef recipe.

Dorothy Flatman's Note: I have used this recipe with excellent
results on both beef and venison roasts. Our family favorite is beef
bottom round roast well trimmed. The flavor is very close to
Shenson's Old Fashioned <tm> in flavor. The meat is a nice red in
appearance when cooked much like the recipes calling for saltpeter
preserving.
I have set the serving size on this to match the size of roast we
most commonly use, and adjusted the spices accordingly from the
original recipe. If you use a different size roast, just have your
recipe program calculate the amount of ingredients for the new
"Serving Size".

SOURCE: Adapted by Dorothy Flatman from a recipe in the Oregonian
FOODday Submitted By DOROTHY FLATMAN   On   03-01-95

