Title: Judy's Stir Fry & Sauce
Categories: Fatfree
Yield: 2 servings
3 ts Sugar
1/4 ts Garlic powder (only powder
Will stir in well)
1 tb Corn starch
1/2 c  Lite soy (or regular or
Watered down regular)
2 tb Mirin (japanese wine) or any
Red wine preferably sweet
MMMMM--------------------------OPTIONAL-------------------------------
1/4 ts (or more) red pepper flakes
1/2 ts Ginger (or more)
Combine sauce ingredients in a jar or bowl, mix well and set aside.

Stir fry 3 cups of any veggies, using a wok or non-stick fry pan on
med-hi heat.  Make sure to the cut the harder veggies (carrots?)
smaller/thinner than the softer ones (mushrooms, cabbage?), stir fry
the harder ones first, then add the softer ones last, so that all
veggies are just crisp tender at the same time.  I start with about
1/2 a cup of veggie broth by the side of the stove and add a
tabelspoon at a time as needed to keep a little liquid in the wok.
Do not add so much that the veggies are sitting in the broth. Always
keep stirring or moving veggies around with a spatula so that they do
not sit in the liquid (that's why they call it stir-fry!)

Some veggies I recommend:  mushrooms, any kind of onion or scallion
(green onion) or shallot, napa (chinese) cabbage, carrots, zucchini,
red or yellow or greeen bell peppers, y ams cut into matchsticks,
celery, jicama (don't overcook, leave crunchy) snowpeas, asparagas . .

When veggies are ready, stir or shake sauce well to keep corn starch
well-mixed in, and pour over the veggies in the pan.  (If you have a
wok, always introduce new liquids by pouring them down the sides of
the pan so that they can pick up heat on the way down and begin
steaming immediately.) Continue to keep viggies moving around the pan
by stirring with a spatula. The corn starch will cause the sauce to
thicken within a minute or so and will give it a sheen as if there is
oil in it.

Serve over rice or noodles immediately.

Source: Original Recipe

Posted by Judy.Mingram@west.sun.com (Judy Mingram - SunSelect) to the
Fatfree Digest [Volume 15 Issue 10] Feb. 10, 1995.

Individual recipes copyrighted by originator. FATFREE Recipe
collections copyrighted by Michelle Dick 1995. Formatted by Sue Smith,
SueSmith9@aol.com using MMCONV. Archived through kindness of Karen
Mintzias, km@salata.com.

1.80รก

