Title: Look What You Can Do With A Lemon (besides cooking)
Categories: Fruit, Information
Yield: 1 servings
-with a soft cloth and rub
-until the
Scratches disappear.
*To remove scratches from
-wooden furniture, mix
-equal amounts of lemon
Juice and salad oil.  Apply
*Make your own furniture polish by mixing lemon juice with two parts
olive oil or vegetable oil. *To renew the sparkle and brightness
inside a glass decanter, skade a small piece of frshly cut lemon and
a little water inside.  Rub cloudy glasses with cut lemon or saok
them in lemon juice and water, and dry with a lint free towel. *When
the finish on bathtubs and sinks looks dull, rub them with half a
lemon dipped in borax to regain the shine. * Polish copper or brass
with lemon juice. For heavy corrosion, use a paste oflemon juice and
salt. Rub, wash with clear water, and dry. *To clean ivory (including
piano keys), rub with half a lemon or with a paste made of salt and
lemon juice.  Wipe with a clean, wet cloth. *Bleach pastry boards and
rolling pins clean by occasionally rubbing them with a cut half
lemon. *If you slop paint on the glass when you're painting windows,
let the paint dry. Then rub gently with hot lemon juice. Leave until
almost dry and wipe off. *Bring hardened paint brushes back to life
by dipping them in boiling lemon juice in an enamel or stainless
steel saucepan. Lower the heat immediately and leave the brush in the
hot juice for 15 minutes, then wash in soapy water. *After washing
woodwork, rinse it with the juice of one lemon to a quart of water to
maintain the gloss. (This will also work on any painted or enameled
surface or linoleum.) *Use lemon juice in the rinse water to remove
soap film from the interiors of ovens and refrigerators. *Remove
spots from kitchen and bathroom faucets by rubbing them with lemon
peel. Then wash and dry with a soft cloth to restore their shine.
*Use full strength lemon juice on white washable fabrics to remove
lipstick stains; use diluted juice on colors. *Take wine stains out
of washable fabrics with a paste of salt and lemon juice. Rinse, then
wash in soapy water. *A drop of lemon juice rubbed on insect bites or
stings instantly relieves the irritation. *Mulch rose bushes with
used lemon peel and pulp. *Gargle with lemon juice and warm water two
to three times, daily for fresh, sweet breath. (Lemon is a local
antispetic and internal alkalizer.) *Add lemon juice to a few
teaspoons of hot clover or alfalfa tea to relieve headaches from
hangovers or other causes. *To alleviate coughs, roast lemons until
they crack open.  Mix their juice with brown sugar and fresh
pineapple juice and drink it.  The pineapple juice adds its powerful
digestive enzymes to those of the lemon to help disintergrate mucus
in the throat. *If you want to stop smoking or chewing tobacco, carry
a lemon with a hole in its top, wrapped in wax paper. When you have
the urge to smoke or chew, suck a mouthful of lemon juice. You may
need several lemons to kick your habit. - Courtesy of Sunkist Inc.
and Sunkist Growers, Inc. Origin: Hearth and Home Companion for 1994.
Shared by: Sharon Stevens

Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   03-04-95

