Title: Mixed Berry Shortcake With Sydney's Yogurt Biscuits
Categories: Nuts/grains, Fruit, Cake/cookie
Yield: 6 servings
MMMMM----------------SOURCE: EATING WELL MAGAZINE---------------------
These biscuits, from the late New York City chef and food stylist
Sydney Burstein, contain almost no fat- yogurt has replaced both the
butter and the liquid found in traditional biscuit recipes. They are
crisp and nicely browned outside but moist inside. Note: You will
need to make the yogurt starter the night before so it can ferment
and raise the biscuits. 1 3/4 cups all-purpose white flour 1 cup
nonfat yogurt 5 1/2 Tbsp. sugar or more to taste 3 cups fresh or
frozen, thawed berries (combination of blueberries, raspberries or
blackberries) 1/2 cup yellow or white cornmeal, preferably
stone-ground 2 tsp. baking powder 1/2 tsp. baking soda 1/2 tsp. salt
1/2 tsp. ground cardamom (optional) 1/2 tsp. ground cinnamon
(optional) 2-3 tsp. skim milk 3 Tbsp. slivered almonds (optional) 3
cups nonfat frozen vanilla yogurt 1 Tbsp. confectioner's sugar In a
medium-sized mixing bowl, stir together 1 cup flour and yogurt until
smooth. Sprinkle 2 Tbsp. sugar over the top, cover, and let sit
unrefrigerated overnight, or until slightly bubbly and sour-smelling.
In a medium-sized bowl, combine berries and 3 Tbsp. sugar or more to
taste, mashing the berries slightly with a fork. Set aside, covered,
in the refrigerator for at least 30 minutes or up to 8 hours, tossing
once or twice. In a small mixing bowl, stir together remaining 3/4
cup flour, cornmeal, baking powder, baking soda, salt and cardamom
and cinnamon, if using. Add to the yogurt mixture and stir until the
dough comes together. Turn the dough out onto a clean surface, knead
briefly, and pat into a 4-by-6-inch rectangle. Cut the dough into
2-inch squares and place on a lighdy oiled baking sheet. Brush
lightly with milk, sprinkle with almonds (if using) and remaining 1/2
Tbsp. sugar. (The biscuits may be made ahead to this point and
refrigerated, wrapped in plastic, for up to 2 days.) Bake the
biscuits in a preheated 425 degree F oven for 12 to 13 minutes, or
until golden. Cool briefly on a rack. Split 1 biscuit and place the
bottom half on a plate. Spoon over 1/2 cup of the berry mixture and
top with a scoop of frozen yogurt. Cover with the top of the biscuit
and dust with some confectioner's sugar. Repeat with the remaining
biscuits. Serve immediately. 377 CALORIES PER SERVING: 14 G PROTEIN,
1 G FAT, 78 G CARBOHYDRATE; 477 MG SODIUM; 3 MG CHOLESTEROL.

Submitted By SALLIE KREBS   On   03-11-95

