Title: Mou Sou Pork
Categories: Chinese, Vegetables, Meats
Yield: 6 servings
1/2 c  Bamboo shoots, shredded
1/2 c  Mushrooms, sliced
10 ea Tree ears, soaked;drained
1/4 c  Tiger lily buds, soaked,
-drained
1 c  Hoison sauce
1 tb Soy sauce
1/2 ts Sugar
1/4 lb Pork, shredded
1 tb Cornstarch
1 tb Wine or Sherry
3 ea Egg, beaten
2 c  Oil
1 ea Garlic clove, minced
1 c  Chinese cabbage, shredded
2 ea Green onions, shredded
MMMMM----------------------CHINESE PANCAKES---------------------------
Sesame oil
2 c  Flour
3/4 c  Boiling water
Prepare chinese pancakes: Place flour in mixing bowl and make a well
in the center.  Add water, stirring quickly with fork until rough
dough has formed.  It shouldn't be too sticky and you may not need
all the water. Turn dough onto lightly floured board, knead until
smooth, adding more flour if necessary.  Place dough in bowl and
cover.  Allow to rest 30 min.
Moisten hands with oil.  Pull off golf ball sized pieces and flatten.
Brush top of each ball with oil, place another flattened ball on top.
With rolling pin roll, roll pair of pancakes together to form a 6-8
inch circle. Repeat with all dough.  Bake at 325 to 350 until 1 side
puffs up. Repeat on other side.  Pull pancakes apart while still
warm. Let cool. Fold each in quarters, place on foil.Wrap each like
package and place on rack over water.  Steam 5-10 min.
Marinate pork 30 min in cornstarch, salt, pepper,sherry and enough
beaten egg to moisten it.  Heat wok, add oil. Stirfry pork and
slighty beaten eggs, stirring so pieces seperate.  Once eggs form
themselves into curds, drain, reserving oil.  Return reserved oil to
wok and lightly brown garlic. Add all vegetables, stir frying until
just cooked, about 3-4 min. Return meat and eggs to vegetables, add 2
ts hoisin sauce, soy sauce, sugar, salt and pepper.  Combine well.
Spread each Chinese pancake with hoisin sauce. Add a good 2 T of
filling to bottom 1/2 of each pancake and roll up like crepes.  Serve.
Submitted By DOROTHY FLATMAN   On   03-02-95

