Title: Mu Shu Vegetables With Chinese Pancakes
Categories: Chinese
Yield: 1 servings
4    Whole scallions
3 tb Rice wine or dry sherry
1 tb Finely chopped garlic
1 tb Finely chopped fresh ginger
2 tb Dark soy sauce
6 oz Bean sprouts
-Chinese pancakes
-hoisin sauce, for dipping
4    Eggs, beaten
4 ts Sesame oil
1 ts Salt
1 tb Peanut oil
1/2 oz Chinese dried wood ears
-(black fungus)
1/2 oz Chinese lily buds
1/4 lb Red peppers
This is a vegetarian version of a traditional Chinese favorite, Mu-Shu
Pork.  Here, I rely on an unusually flavorful combination of spices,
vegetables, and condiments which together make one forget that pork
or any other meat was ever a part of the dish.  Particularly
important to this recipe are the Chinese dried wood ears and lily
buds.  Their textures and the flavors they absorb in the stir frying
are the basis for the success of the dish.  When the combined
ingredients are eaten with Chinese pancakes and hoisin sauce, what
might be an ordinary dish is transformed into a festive affair.  Most
of the preparation may be done ahead of time and, once the pancakes
are made, the rest is easily accomplished, making this a perfect dish
for a dinner party.

Combine the beaten eggs with 2 teaspoons of the sesame oil and salt
in a small bowl.  Heat a frying pan or wok over moderate heat and add
1 Tablespoon of the oil.  Pour in the egg mixture and spread it
quickly over the surface of the pan until it forms a thin crepe like
pancake. There is no need to turn it over.  Remove from the heat and
when cool, shred the egg pancake and set aside.

Soak the dried wood ears and lily buds in warm water for about 20
minutes until soft.  Meanwhile, finely shred the peppers and
scallions. Squeeze the excess liquid from the black fungus and lily
buds. Finely shred the wood ears, discarding the stem, and snap off
the hard ends of the lily buds.

Heat a wok or large frying-pan over heat heat and add the remaining
peanut oil.  when almost smoking, add the wood ears, lily buds, and
rice wine and stir fry for 1 minute.  Add the garlic, ginger, and
dark soy sauce, and stir fry for another minute.  Then put in the
shredded egg, red peppers, scallions and bean sprouts and continue to
stir fry for 3 minutes until the ingredients are thoroughly mixed.
Stir in the remaining sesame oil, and turn onto a large platter.
Serve with the Chinese pancakes and hoisin sauce.

Date: 05-04-94
From: Eastman@solstice.Jpl.Nasa
Submitted By GAIL SHIPP   On   03-05-95

