Title: Musakka'a (Baked Eggplant, Tomato & Chick Pea Casserole)
Categories: Middle east, Vegetables
Yield: 6 servings
;1/4 inch thick slices
3 ts Salt
Black pepper; freshly ground
12 md Tomato; fresh, ripe, peeled,
;seeded & finely chopped or
;4 cups chopped, drained
;canned tomatoes
1 1/2 c  Water
1 1/2 c  Dried chick peas; (garbanzos
;or drained canned chick pea
;thoroughly drained & rinsed
;under cold water
Olive oil
2 md Eggplants; (about 1 lb. ea.)
;washed but not peeled and
;cut into 2 inch cubes
3 md Onion; peeled and cut into
NOTE:  Starting a day ahead, wash the dried chick peas in a sieve
under cold running water, then place them in a large bowl or pan and
add enough cold water to cover them by 2 inches.  Soak at room
temperature for at least 12 hours.  Drain the peas and place them in
a heavy 2 to 3 quart saucepan.
Add enough fresh water to the chick peas to cover them completely
and bring to a boil over high heat.  Reduce the heat to low and simmer
partially covered for about 2 to 2 « hours until the peas are tender
but still intact.  Replenish with more boiling water from time to
time if necessary.  Drain the peas in a sieve or colander. (Canned
chick peas require no cooking and need only to be drained and rinsed
thoroughly under cold running water.)
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees (F).  In a heavy 12 inch skillet,
heat about 1 inch of oil over high heat almost to the smoking point.
Drop in the eggplant cubes and, stirring frequently, cook for about 5
minutes, or until they are lightly browned on all sides.  With a
slotted spoon, transfer them to a 9 by 14 by 2 « inch baking/serving
dish and spread them out evenly.
Add the onions to the oil remaining in the skillet and, stirring
frequently, cook over moderate heat for 8 to 10 minutes, or until
they are soft and delicately browned.  watch carefully for any signs
of burning and regulate the heat accordingly.
Spread the onions and all of their cooking oil on top of the
eggplant and pour over them an additional « cup of olive oil.
Sprinkle the onions with 1 teaspoon of the salt and a few grindings
of pepper. Scatter the chick peas on top, and cover them with the
tomatoes. Sprinkle with remaining 2 teaspoons of salt and a few
grindings of pepper and pour in the water.
Bring the musakka'a to a boil on top of the stove, then bake in the
lower third of the oven for 40 minutes, or until the vegetables are
very tender. Cool the musakka'a to room temperature and serve
directly form the baking dish, accompanied by Arab bread.

75 of 116

Time Life Series: Middle Eastern Cooking,  "circa  69"

MMed by: earl.cravens@salata.com
Submitted By EARL CRAVENS   On   02-25-95

