Title: Pampushky (Raised Doughnuts With Filling)
Categories: Russian, Holiday, Breads
Yield: 10 servings
3 lg Egg yolks
1 ts Salt, if using
-- sweet butter
1 ts Vanilla extract
Zest of one lemon
1 c  Rose preserve or any dry
-- fruit preserve
Powdered sugar; as needed
2 tb Sugar
1/2 c  Water
2 pk Active dry yeast
1/4 c  Milk
5 c  Unbleached all-purpose flour
-- up to 6 may be needed
1/4 lb Butter; 1 stick
1/2 c  Sugar
2 lg Eggs
Combine the sugar and water, sprinkle with the yeast, and let stand
until soft.  Heat the milk to lukewarm, and add the milk and 1/4 cup
of the flour to the yeast mixture.  Beat well, cover and allow to
rise until light and bubbly, about 10 minutes.  In another bowl,
cream the butter and sugar. Beat eggs and egg yolks together,
blending well and combine with the sugar-butter mixture, beating
thoroughly until the eggs are pale white. Grate a lemon on a fine
grater until all of the yellow color is grated off and add this (the
zest), vanilla, and the yeast mixture to the butter-egg mixture.  Mix
in 4 cups of flour.  If the dough seems a little loose, add a little
more, but the dough should be soft.  Knead, by hand, for about 10
minutes.  Replace in a greased bowl, turning once to grease the top,
and cover with a damp towel, set in a warm place until double in
bulk. Punch down, knead a few more times, and allow to rise again
until the dough is doubled.  When doubled, divide the dough into 4
parts.  On a lightly floured surface, roll one part into a rectangle
about 1/4-inch thick, turning once or twice during the rolling to
achieve a uniform thickness. Dust with flour sparingly.  Place 1 ts
of rose preserve at evenly space intervals on the dough, or with a 2
1/2-inch cutter, gently form impressions and place the filling in
each.  Roll another portion out, as above, to the same thickness, and
gently cover the first, overlapping a little.  (Filling will show
through.)  Cut circles with the cutter. Place them on a lightly
floured cookie sheet and allow rise until double in size.

Repeat until all of the dough is used, rolling out the scraps last.

Heat oil or shortening to 375 degrees F. in a deep fryer or wide
skillet.
Test the temperature by frying a piece of bread; it should bubble
and turn golden quickly.  The fat should not be smoking.

Fry 5 or 6 pampushky at a time.  Do NOT crowd as this lowers the
temperature and the doughnuts will absorb too much grease.  When one
side is golden, flip with a spoon to fry the other side.  Dough will
puff up in the frying.  Perfect pampushky are light as air.  Drain on
paper towels. When slightly cooled, sprinkle with powdered sugar.

Serve with tea.

