Title: Paska
Categories: Breads, Russian
Yield: 1 servings
1    Egg yolk
1/2 ts Cardamom
1 ts Vanilla extract or 1/4 tsp
-- vanilla crystal
4 1/2 c  All-purpose flour
1/2 c  Raisins
1/2 c  Candied citrus peel
1/4 c  Almonds; finely slivered
1/4 ts Sugar
1 tb Dry yeast (1env) or 1 cake
-- compressed
1/4 c  Warm water; 100 degrees
1 c  Milk
1/2 c  Sugar
1 ts Salt
4 tb Unsalted butter
4    Eggs
Recipe by: The Classic Cuisine of Soviet Georgia - ISBN 0-13-138215-2

In a mixing bowl, dissolve the 1/4 tsp of sugar, then the yeast in the
warm water. Let stand in a warm place for about 10 mins, or until
mixture bubbles and doubles in volume. Meanwhile, heat the milk,
sugar, salt, butter, eggs, egg yolk, cardamon, vanilla, and 3 cups of
the flour. Stir until well blended, then work in most of the
remaining flour with your hands.

Once the dough is well mixed,dust the fruits and almonds with flour
and work them into the dough. Form the dough in a ball, place in a
clean, lightly greased bowl, and let the paska rise until doubled in
bulk, approx. 1 hour. Meanwhile, prepare the cake tin, either an old
coffee can about 7 to 8 inches high minus the lid or a similar size
juice can. If using the latter, cut out one end. Wash the can well,
dry, and either line with greased wax paper or grease and dust with
flour. Since the paska will rise above the rim and mushroom over the
side of the can while cooking, it is a good idea to make a collar
with foil. If you are lining the tin with wax paper, just extend the
paper. Once the paska has doubled in bulk, punch it down and put it
in the can. cover and let rise until 2/3's the height of the can.

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. Place the paska on the lower rack of
the oven. Bake for 1 hour, or until a knife comes out clean after
being inserted in the center of the bread. Remove from the oven and
let cool for 15 mins. To remove from the can, turn it on its side,
cut out the bottom with a can opener, the run a knife around the edge
to separate the bread.

Push the paska out of the bottom. This necessary as it usually curls
over the upper rim while baking.

