Title: Queen Elizabeth Cake
Categories: Cake/cookie, Desserts
Yield: 1 servings
1    Egg
1 ts Vanilla
1 1/2 c  Flour,all purpose
1 ts Baking powder
1/2 ts -Salt
1 c  -Boiling water
1 c  Dates;chopped
1 ts Baking soda
1/2 c  Butter
1 c  Sugar,granulated
MMMMM----------------------BROILED TOPPING---------------------------
3/4 c  Coconut;shredded;half nuts
-if desired
1/4 c  Butter
1/2 c  Brown sugar;packed
1/4 c  Light cream
"This date and nut cake always included a broiled topping. Lazy Daisy
was a plain cake with the same topping. ... Queen Elizabeth cakes
have appeared in cook books coast to coast for many years. Some claim
that the recipe was a favorite of the Queen Mother and given to
worthy groups as a fund raiser during World War II. One from Quebec's
Eastern Townships includes the footnote that says that, "This is not
to be passed on but must be sold for charitable purposes for 15 cents.
In a reply to our query about the name of this recipe, the Queen
Mother's Lady-in-Waiting writes; "I fear I have to tell you that,
although we have known about this recipe for many years, it did not
originate from either Buckingham Palace or Clarence House...However
as Her Majesty always made it a rule, due to the number of requests
receieved, never to give "favorite recipes", I fear that I have to
tell you that you that should you wish to include this recipe in any
cookbook, it should only be called a 'date and walnut cake' with no
reference to the Queen Mother."

Pour water over dates and soda; let stand until lukewarm. In bowl,
cream butter with sugar; beat in egg and vanilla. Mix together flour,
baking powder and salt; add to creamed mixture alternately with date
mixture. Spread in a greased and floured 9 inch square cake pan. Bake
in 350F oven for 40 minutes or until tester comes out clean.

Broiled Topping: In a small heavy saucepan, combine butter, packed
brown sugar, light cream and coconut (half nuts if desired). Bring to
a boil, stirring; boil gently for 1 minute. Spread over warm baked
cake; broil until bubbly and lightly browned, watching carefully.

SOURCE: The Forties chapter, _A Century of Canadian Home Cooking_

