Title: Roast Pork with Cabbage and Caraway
Categories: Meats, Vegetables, Main dish
Yield: 6 servings
4    Carrots, peeled and
-diagonally sliced
2    Bay leaves
2 1/2 lb Green cabbage (1 head),
-quartered, cored and
Sliced, divided
1 cn Beer (12 ounces)
2 tb Light unsulfured molasses
1/2 c  Canned beef broth
4 ts Caraway seeds, crushed in a
-mortar witha pestle
2 lg Cloves garlic, minced,
-divided
2 ts Salt
1 ts Ground pepper
3 lb Boneless double-loin
-center-cut pork roast *
3 tb Olive oil, divided
1 lg Onion, sliced
* This is made by tying two boneless pork loins together.  If you
can't find one, ask your butcher to prepare it for you.

Combine 2 teaspoons of the crushed caraway seeds, the garlic, salt and
pepper in a bowl.  Place the pork in a glass baking dish and rub with
the spice mixture.  Cover and chill for up to 24 hours.

Preheat the oven to 350F.  Heat 1 tablespoon of the oil in a large
skillet over medium-high heat.  Add the onion, carrots, bay leaves
and 1 teaspoon of the caraway.  Saute for about 8 minutes or until
the vegetables are softened.  Transfer to a roasting pan.  Heat 1/2
tablespoon of the oil in the same pan over high heat.  Add half of
the cabbage and 1/2 teaspoon of the caraway; saute for about 4
minutes or until the cabbage begins to wilt. Repeat with another 1/2
tablespoon of the oil, the remaining cabbage and 1/2 teaspoon of the
caraway.  Add all of the wilted cabbage mixture to the onion mixture
and mix to blend. Season with salt and pepper.

Heat the remaining tablespoon of the oil in the same skillet over high
heat.  Add the pork, and brown on all sides, about 10 minutes.  Set
the pork atop the vegetables in the roasting pan.  Add the beer and
molasses to the skillet and bring to a boil, scraping up all of the
browned bits in the bottom of the pan.  Pour over the vegetables.
Add the broth.

Roast the pork and vegetables for 45 minutes.  Turn the pork over and
continue roasting until a thermometer inserted into the thickest part
registers 145F, about 45 minutes.  Place the pork on a cutting board
or work surface.  Discard the bay leaves.  Use a slotted spoon to
place the vegetables on a serving platter.  Slice the pork and place
on top of the vegetables.  Transfer the cooking juices to a small
saucepan and boil for 5 minutes, then spoon over the pork.

Makes 6 servings.

[Taking It Easy; Karen Kaplan & Kristine Kidd] [Bon Appetit; March
1995]

Posted by Fred Peters.

