Title: Sheepherder's Bread
Categories: Breads, West europe
Yield: 1 servings
2 1/2 ts Salt
2 pk Yeast, active & dry
9 c  All purpose flour,
-unbleached
-Salad oil
3 c  Water, very hot (about
140    F)
1/2 c  Butter, margarine or solid
-shortening (1/4 lb)
1/2 c  Sugar
SPAIN

Tending flocks on windswept rangelands, miles from the nearest
village, Basque sheepherders have had to develop virtuosity at
campfire cookery. This large, dome-shaped loaf is but one example --
cooked like most of their food, in a cast-iron pot. Though Basques
bury the pot under the campfire, ours goes less dramatically into an
ordinary oven. If you want to be truly authentic, you'll have a loyal
sheepdog nearby. Traditionally, the dog gets the first slice.

In a large bowl, combine the hot water, butter, sugar, and salt. Stir
until the butter is melted; let stand until warm (about 110F). Stir
in yeast, cover and let stand in a warm place until bubbly (5 to 15
minutes). Add 5 cups of flour and, with a wooden spoon or heavy duty
electric mixer at medium speed, beat until a thick batter forms, stir
in about 3-1/2 cups more flour to make a stiff dough. Turn dough out
onto a floured board and knead until nonsticky, smooth and satiny
(about 10 minutes), adding flour as needed to prevent sticking. Place
dough in a greased bowl; turn over to grease top. Cover and let rise
in a warm place (80F) until doubled (1-1/2 hours). Punch down dough,
knead on a floured until smooth, then shape into a ball. Cover the
bottom of a 10-inch cast-iron or cast-aluminum Dutch oven (5 quart
size) with a circle of foil. Oil inside of kettle, including foil,
and underside of lid. Place dough in kettle and cover with lid. Let
rise in a warm place (80F) until dough pushes up the lid about 1/2
inch (about 1 hour). Bake, covered with lid, in a 375F oven for 12
minutes. Remove lid and bake for 30 to 35 more minutes or until loaf
is golden brown and sounds hollow when tapped. Turn loaf out onto a
rack to cool (you may need a helper). Peel of tin foil.

MAKES 1 LARGE LOAF

Recipe from: Sunset International Vegetarian Cook Book By: Editors of
Sunset Books and Magazines From: Sam Lefkowitz Date: 09-13-94
Submitted By GAIL SHIPP   On   03-05-95

