Title: Sherried Orange Chicken
Categories: Chicken
Yield: 1 servings
2    Cloves garlic, finely
-chopped
1 cn (11 ounces) mandarin orange
-segments, drained and
-liquid reserved
2 ts Cornstarch
2 tb Raisins
2 c  Hot cooked rice
1 tb Chopped fresh chives
4    Boneless, skinless chicken
-breast halves (about 1 l/2
-pounds)
2 tb Sherry
2 tb Soy sauce
1 tb Packed brown sugar
1 ts Chopped fresh or 1/4
-teaspoon dried oregano
-leaves
Place chicken breast halves in 2-quart microwavable casserole. Mix
sherry, soy sauce, brown sugar, oregano, garlic and 1/4 Cup of the
reserved orange liquid; pour over chicken. Cover and refrigerate 1
hour, turning once.

Arrange chicken, thickest parts to outside edge, in sherry mixture in
casserole. Microwave covered on high 11 to 14 minutes, rotating
casserole l/2 turn after 5 minutes, until chicken is done. Remove
chicken with slotted spoon; keep warm. Mix cornstarch and 2
tablespoons of the remaining orange liquid; stir into hot liquid in
casserole. Microwave uncovered 5 to 7 minutes, stirring every minute,
until thickened. Strain sauce. Stir in orange segments and raisins.
Serve chicken and sauce over rice. Sprinkle wi th chives.

4 servings. Range-top Directions: Place chicken breast halves in
glass or plastic bowl or heavy plastic bag. Prepare sherry mixture as
directed; pour over chicken. Cover and refrigerate 1 hour tuming once.

Remove chicken from sherry mixture; reserve sherry mixture. Heat I
teaspoon oil in 10-inch skillet until hot. Cook chicken in oil over
medium heat until light brown on both sides. Add sherry mixture;
reduce heat Cover and cook about 10 minutes or until chicken is done.
Remove chicken with slotted spoon; keep warm. Mix cornstarch and
remaining orange liquid; stir into hot liquid in skillet. Heat to
boiling, stirring constantly Boil and stir I minute. Stir in orange
segments and raisins; heat through. Serve c hicken and sauce over
rice. Sprinkle with chives.

Nutrition Information Per Serving

Percent of U.S. RDA
1 serving

430
Vitamin C
Riboflavin
Calcium 4% Iron 18%
Calories
Carbohydrate, 9 50
Cholesterol mg  100
100% Potassium, mg   610

From the files of Al Rice, North Pole Alaska.    Feb 1994

