Title: Smetanik - Berry Jam & Sour Cream Pie
Categories: Pie/tart, Ussr, Desserts
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM------------------------PASTRY DOUGH-----------------------------
2 1/4 c  Flour; all purpose
1/4 ts Salt
5 tb Water; iced; more as needed
8 tb Butter;unsalted
;cut into 1/4" bits; chilled
3 tb Shortening;Vegetable,chilled
MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
2    Egg yolks
1/3 c  Sour Cream
2 ts Cinnamon
1 tb Butter;softened
2 c  Almonds; Finely ground
4 ts Milk
6 tb Rasberry Jam
6 tb Cherry Jam
Pastry: In a large mixing bowl, combine the butter, vegetable
shortening, flour and salt. Working quickly, use your fingertips to
rub flour and fat together until they blend and look like flakes of
course meal. Pour ice water over over mixture all at once, toss
together lightly and gather dough into a ball. If dough crumbles, add
up to 2 more tablespoons per batch you are making, drop by drop until
particles adhere. Divide the dough in half, dust each half lightly
with flour and wrap separately in sheets of wax paper. Refrigerate at
least 3 hours until firm.

Filling: Soak the almonds in milk for 5-10 minutes. With the back of a
large spoon, rub the jams through a fine seive set over a large bowl.
THen beat in it the egg yolks, sour cream, cinnamon, the nuts and
their soaking milk. On a lightly floured surface, roll the dough into
a 12" circle about 1/8" thick. With a pastry brush, coat the bottom
and sides of a 9" false bottom tart pan with the softened butter.
Gently press the pastry into the bottom and around the sides of the
pan, being careful not to stretch it. Roll the pin over the rim of
the pan, pressing down hard to trim off excess pastry. Preheat oven
to 425. Pour the filling into the pastry shell and roll out other
half of dough into a 12" circle. Drape it over the rolling pin, lift
it up  and unfold it over the filling. Press the edges of the pastry
layers together. Then crimp them with your fingers or press them
firmly around the rim with the prongs of a fork.. With a sharp knife,
cut 3 slits about 1" apart in the top of the pastry. Bake in the
center of the oven for 30 minutes or until pastry is golden brown.
Then set the pan on a large jar or coffee can and carefully slip off
the outside rim. Let the pie cool to room temperature before serving.

* This is a tasty and QUICK pie if you use commercial premade pie
crusts, although you should make it at least once from scratch

Submitted by: Rick Grunwald, Brooksville Florida U.S.A.
Submitted By ROBERT MILES   On   02-23-95

