Title: Steamed Chocolate Pudding
Categories: Nuts/grains, Chocolate, Desserts, Puddings
Yield: 1 servings
MMMMM----------------KEYWORDS: SCANNED, SJK, STEA---------------------
8 ea TO 12 SERVINGS
Source: Chocolate Desserts, from the editors of Food & Wine magazine
Supplement to Food & Wine magazine, 03/95 2 1/2 ounces unsweetened
chocolate, coarsely chopped 1/2 cup ground almonds 1/4 cup plus 1
teaspoon fine, white bread crumbs 5 tablespoons unsalted butter,
softened 5 tablespoons sugar 4 egg yolks Butter and fine, dry bread
crumbs, for coating the mold 4 egg whites GARNISHES: 1 cup heavy
cream 1 1/2 tablespoons confectioners' sugar 1 package frozen
raspberries, thawed 1. In a double boiler, melt the chocolate over
hot, not simmering, water, stirring until smooth; then remove from
the heat and cool to lukewarm. 2. In a small howl, combine the
almonds and bread crumbs. 3. In a large mixing bowl, cream the
butter. Gradually beat in the sugar, then the egg yolks, one at a
time, mixing well after each addition. Beat in the cooled chocolate,
then the nut-crumb mixture. Stir until blended. 4. Coat a 3- to 4-cup
ring mold (or a souffle or covered steamed pudding mold) with butter,
then with bread crumbs, shaking out any excess. Bring a pan of water,
in which the mold will fit comfortably, to a simmer. 5. Beat the egg
whites until stiff but not dry. Stir a large dollop of the whites
into the chocolate mixture, beating vigorously. Fold the remaining
whites into the mixture and spoon the batter gently into the prepared
mold (it should be no more than three-quarters full). Cover tightly
with a piece of buttered foil, then with a pot lid of a suitable
size. 6. Place the covered mold in the pan of simmering water, adding
water, if necessary, so that it comes up to the level of the pudding
batter. Simmer on top of the stove from 1 hour to 1 hour and 20
minutes. (If using a souffle dish or pudding mold, the pudding may
take even longer than 1 hour and 20 minutes.) The pudding is done
when it is still slightly moist in the center, and the sides are
quite dry and almost firm. 7. Meanwhile, prepare the garnishes: Whip
the cream with the confectioners' sugar until soft peaks form. Puree
the raspberries in a blender or food processor and then strain to
remove the seeds. 8. When the pudding is done, unmold it carefully
and serve it hot with the whipped cream and raspberry puree.

Submitted By SALLIE KREBS   On   03-01-95

