Title: SUPER FUDGY FIVE CHOCOLATE BROWNIES
Categories: Desserts, Chocolate, Godiva
Yield: 15 brownies
MMMMM----------------------FUDGY BROWNIES:---------------------------
5 lg EGGS, AT ROOM TEMPERATURE
1 tb VANILLA EXTRACT
1 1/2 c  ALL-PURPOSE FLOUR
2 ts INSTANT ESPRESSO POWDER
1/4 ts SALT
1 c  WALNUT HALVES
1 c  UNSALTED BUTTER, CUT INTO
-TB's
1 c  PACKED DARK BROWN SUGAR
2/3 c  GRANULATED SUGAR
18 oz SEMISWEET CHOCOLATE CHIPS
2 oz UNSWEETENED CHOCOLATE,
-COARSELY CHOPPED
MMMMM----------------BITTERSWEET CHOCOLATE GLAZE:---------------------
-FINELY CHOPPED
2/3 c  HEAVY (WHIPPING) CREAM
6 oz BITTERSWEET CHOCOLATE,
MMMMM-------------------DECORATION (OPTIONAL):------------------------
1 oz WHITE CHOCOLATE,
-COARSELY CHOPPED
1 oz MILK CHOCOLATE,
-COARSELY CHOPPED
Make the brownies:
Position a rack in the center of the oven and preheat to 350
degrees F.
Line a 13-by-9-inch pan with aluminum foil so that the foil
extends 2
inches beyond the two long sides of the pan. Butter the bottom and
sides
of the foil-lined pan.

In a medium saucepan, combine the butter and sugars. Cook over
medium
heat, stirring constantly with a wooden spoon until the butter is
melted
and the mixture is very hot.

Place the chocolate chips and unsweetened chocolate in a food
processor
fitted with the metal chopping blade. Process the chocolates for
15 to
20 seconds, or until finely chopped. With the motor running, pour
the
hot butter mixture through the feed tube and process for 15 to 20
seconds, or until the chocolate is completely melted, scraping
down the
workbowl as necessary. Add the eggs and vanilla and process for
10 to 15
seconds, or until combined. Add the flour, espresso powder and
salt and
process for 5 to 7 seconds, just until combined, scraping down the
workbowl as necessary. Add the walnut halves and pulse about 10
times to
incorporate them into the mixture and to chop them slightly.

Scrape the batter into the prepared pan and smooth the top with a
rubber
spatula. Bake the brownies for 25 to 30 minutes, or until a cake
tester
or toothpick inserted 2 inches away from the center comes out
with a few
moist crumbs clinging to it. Do not overbake the brownies.

Cool the brownies completely in the pan set on a wire rack. Using
the
two ends of the foil as handles, lift the brownies out of the pan.
Invert onto a cutting board and peel off the aluminum foil.
Reinvert the
brownies so they are top side up. Using a sharp knife, trim the
sides of
the brownies so that they are straight and smooth. Place the
brownies on
a wire rack and set the wire rack over a baking sheet.

Make the bittersweet chocolate glaze (optional):
Do not make the glaze until the brownies are cool. In a medium
saucepan
over medium-low heat, bring the cream to a gentle boil. Take the
pan off
the heat and add the chocolate. Let the mixture stand for 30
seconds to
melt the chocolate. Using a wire whisk, stir until the mixture is
smooth. Strain the glaze through a fine sieve into a small bowl to
remove any air bubbles. Cool the glaze for 5 minutes, or until
slightly
thickened but still pourable. Pour the glaze evenly over the
brownies,
allowing the glaze to drip down the sides onto the baking sheet.
Spread
the glaze with a small metal offset cake spatula, making sure
that the
top and sides of the brownies are completely covered.

Decorate the brownies (optional):
Separately melt the milk and white chocolates according to the
melting
instructions in the Chocolate Key. Spoon the melted milk and
white chocolates separately into small paper cones.

Cut a 1/16-inch opening at the tip of both paper cones. Pipe thin
straight parallel lines of milk chocolate at 1/2-inch intervals
across
the top of the brownies. Pipe thin straight lines of white
chocolate in
between the lines of milk chocolate. At 3/8-inch intervals, draw
the tip
of a toothpick or metal skewer completely across the brownies
perpendicular to the piped chocolate lines, reversing the
direction in
which you pull the toothpick across the brownie. Wipe the
toothpick tip
clean between each pull. This will create a feathered design.
Refrigerate the brownies for 15 minutes, or until the glaze is
set. Cut
into 15 bars. Store the brownies in an airtight container at room
temperature or in the refrigerator. If stored in the
refrigerator, they
will be even more fudgy.
Submitted By CHARLENE DEERING   On   03-13-95

