Title: Turlu (Mixed Vegetable and Meat Casserole)
Categories: Middle east, Turkish, Vegetables, Veal
Yield: 6 servings
;peeled and cut crosswise
;into 2 inch pieces
1/2 lb Okra, fresh; washed and
;trimmed of stem ends
1 lb Potatoes, boiling; peeled &
;cut into 2 inch cubes
1 lb Tomato; cut into 1/4 inch
;thick slices
1/4 lb Green peppers; Italian type,
;long, green, cut lengthwise
;into halves and seeded
Black pepper; freshly ground
2 c  Water
1 md Eggplant; about 1 pound
6 tb Butter; cut into 1/4 inch
;pieces and clarified
2 lb Veal, lean, boneless; or
;lamb, prefer from the
;shoulder, cut into 1 inch
;cubes
1/2 c  Onion; finely chopped
1 1/2 ts Salt
1/2 lb String beans, fresh; trimmed
;and cut in half
2 md Zucchini; or other summer
;squash (about 1 pound),
With a sharp knife, cut the stem form the eggplant and peel it
lengthwise, leaving 4 evenly spaced 1 inch wide strips of peel intact.
Cutting between the strips, divide the eggplant lengthwise into
quarters. then cut into 2 inch cubes and set aside.
In a heavy 5 to 6 quart casserole, heat the butter over moderate
heat until a drop of water flicked into it sputters instantly.  Add
the meat and brown it lightly, turning the pieces frequently with a
spoon and regulating the heat so they color quickly and evenly
without burning. Stir in the onions and « teaspoon of the salt,
reduce the heat to low, cover tightly and simmer for 30 minutes, or
until the meat is tender and shows no resistance when pierced with
the point of a small, sharp knife.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees (F).  Scatter the string beans
evenly over the meat, then in separate layers, spread the eggplant,
squash, okra, potatoes, tomatoes and green peppers on top.  Sprinkle
the vegetables with the remaining 1 teaspoon of salt and a few
grindings of pepper, and pour the water over them.  Bring to a boil
over moderate heat, then cover tightly and bake in the middle of the
oven for about 1 hour, or until most of the liquid is absorbed by the
vegetables. Serve at once, directly form the casserole.

80 of 116

Source: Time Life Series: Middle Eastern Cooking  "crica  69"

MMed by: earl.cravens@salata.com
Submitted By EARL CRAVENS   On   03-11-95

