Title: Vegetarian Pot Stickers
Categories: Fatfree
Yield: 20 servings
1 T  Green onion, minced
1 t  Fresh ginger, minced
2 t  Soy sauce
1 t  Rice wine or dry sherry
1 t  Cornstarch
1/2 t  Sesame oil
1 pn White or black pepper
1 lb Pot sticker wrappers, or
Homemade sheet pasta
2 t  Vegetable oil
2 c  Vegetable stock
4    Chinese dried black
(shiitake) mushrooms, soaked
In hot water
1 c  Spinach leaves, chopped
1/2 c  Napa cabbage, chopped
1/2 c  Bamboo shoots, daikon or
Fresh or canned water
Chestnuts, chopped
1/2 c  Pressed bean curd or tofu,
Chopped (proven optional or
Easily reduced)
1. Squeeze excess water from mushrooms. Remove stems and discard;
finely chop caps. Place mushrooms in a large bowl, and add spinach,
cabbage, bamboo shoots, bean curd, green onion, ginger and garlic
(and anything else you wish at this point-my friend added sprouts and
put in less than half the tofu called for, and I'll probably add some
fresh Japanese mustard leaves and Swiss chard stalks, and maybe some
carrots bits, and leave out the tofu entirely). Mix gently with soy
sauce, wine, cornstartch, sesame oil, and pepper. Refrigerate until
ready to use.

2. Spoon 1 Tablespoon of filling into the center of each pot sticker
wrapper (friend said she's going to stuff them a little fuller next
time). Moisten edge of wrapper, fold over to make a half-circle, and
pleat edges firmly together. Set each pot sticker upright on a
platter, so that a flat base is formed.

3. In a large non-stick or cast iron skillet, heat the 2 teaspoons of
vegetable oil on medium high. Place pot stickers close together in
the pan and fry about 1 minute, or until bottoms begin to brown. Pour
enough vegetable stock into the pan to cover bottom half of pot
stickers. Cover pan, reduce heat to medium, and cook 7 minutes, until
the stock evaporates.

Makes about 20 pot stickers.

"Dip these in bowls of soy sauce, rice vinegar, hot chili pepper oil,
and fermented black bean sauce."

Ovo-vegetarian (I guess from the pot sticker wrappers?) Nutritional
info per serving (no idea how many constitute a serving,
unfortunately) Cal: 159 (25% from fat, when bean curd is used) Prot:
7 g Fat: 4 g Carb: 22 g Sod: 343 g Chol: 24 mg (pot sticker wrappers
again?) Fiber: 2 g

Source: From Veggie Life, Mar 95, p. 18.

Posted by shel@is.rice.edu (Shelly Johnson) to the Fatfree Digest
[Volume 15 Issue 24] Feb. 24, 1995.

Individual recipes copyrighted by originator. FATFREE Recipe
collections copyrighted by Michelle Dick 1995. Formatted by Sue Smith,
SueSmith9@aol.com using MMCONV. Archived through kindness of Karen
Mintzias, km@salata.com.

1.80รก

