Title: WHITE CHOCOLATE HAZELNUT FRAISIER
Categories: Desserts, Chocolate, Godiva
Yield: 12 servings
MMMMM-------------------CRISPY HAZELNUT CRUST------------------------
4 oz White chocolate, coarsely
-chopped
2 1/2 c  OVEN-TOASTED RICE CEREAL,
-SUCH AS RICE KRISPIES
3/4 c  TOASTED HAZELNUTS
MMMMM----------------WHITE CHOC HAZELNUT FILLING---------------------
-CHOPPED
1 c  MILK
2 ts VANILLA EXTRACT
1 1/2 c  HEAVY CREAM
1/4 c  HAZELNUT LIQUEUR, SUCH AS
-FRANGELICO
1 pk UNFLAVORED POWDERED GELATIN
12 oz WHITE CHOCOLATE, COARSELY
MMMMM--------------------------ASSEMBLY-------------------------------
1/4 c  PLUS 2 TABLESPOONS HEAVY
-CREAM
1 tb LIGHT CORN SYRUP
2 pt FRESH STRAWBERRIES, STEMMED
WHITE CHOCOLATE GLAZE:
4 oz WHITE CHOCOLATE, COARSELY
-CHOPPED
MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
WHIPPED CREAM
Make the hazelnut crust:
Lightly butter the bottom of a 9-inch springform pan. Place the
rice
cereal and the toasted hazelnuts in the bowl of a food processor
fitted
with the metal chopping blade. Process the mixture for 25 to 30
seconds,
until finely ground. Transfer the cereal/nut mixture to a medium
bowl.

Melt the white chocolate according to the directions in the
Chocolate Key. Using a rubber spatula, scrape the melted
chocolate into the cereal mixture in the bowl. Stir the mixture
until
combined; scrape it into the prepared pan. Press the cereal
mixture
evenly over the bottom of the pan. Place the pan in the
refrigerator.

Make the white chocolate hazelnut filling:
Place the hazelnut liqueur in a small, heatproof cup. Sprinkle the
gelatin over the liqueur and let the mixture stand for 5 minutes
to
soften the gelatin. Place the cup with the softened gelatin in a
small
pan with enough water to come halfway up the sides of the cup.
Heat the
gelatin mixture in hot, not simmering, water. Stir the gelatin
frequently for 3 to 5 minutes, or until the gelatin granules
dissolve
completely and the mixture is clear. Remove the pan from the heat,
leaving the cup in the water to keep the gelatin mixture warm
until
ready to use.

Place the white chocolate in a large bowl. In a small saucepan
over
medium heat, bring the milk to a gentle boil. Pour the hot milk
over the
chocolate and let the mixture stand for 30 seconds to melt the
chocolate. Add the warm gelatin mixture and vanilla; whisk until
smooth.
Place the bowl over a larger bowl of ice water and stir for 5 to
10
minutes, or until the mixture is cool.

In a chilled medium bowl, using a handheld electric mixer, beat
the
cream at medium speed until it begins to form soft mounds . Do not
overbeat or the mousse will be grainy. Fold one-third of the
whipped
cream into the white chocolate mixture. Fold in the remaining
whipped
cream. Set the mousse aside at room temperature.

Assemble the cake:
Remove the prepared springform pan from the refrigerator. Slice a
strawberry in half lengthwise. Arrange the two halves next to each
other, stem-side-down with the cut side against the side of the
pan.
Continue to cut strawberries and fill in the border of the pan,
cutting
only as many strawberries as needed. Fill in the center of the
pan with
whole strawberries, placing them stem-side-down and using as many
as
needed. Reserve the remaining strawberries for garnish.

Carefully scrape the white chocolate mousse over the strawberries.
Using
a small metal spatula, smooth the top of the mousse so that it is
even.
Refrigerate the cake for four hours, until the mousse is firm.
(Do not
refrigerate the cake for longer than 6 hours, as the strawberries
will
release water and cause the cake to collapse when sliced.)

Make the white chocolate glaze:
Melt the white chocolate according to the directions in the
Chocolate Key; set aside. In a small saucepan, bring the
cream and corn syrup to a gentle boil. Stir the hot cream into the
melted chocolate until smooth.

Glaze and garnish the cake:
Remove the cake from the refrigerator. Pour the white chocolate
glaze
evenly over the top of the cake, covering it completely. Return
the cake
to the refrigerator for 30 minutes to set the glaze.
To unmold the cake, carefully run a small, hot knife around the
edge of
the pan. Undo the clasp on the springform pan and remove the side
of the
pan. Garnish the top of the cake with the remaining strawberries,
sliced, and rosettes of whipped cream.

- Tish Boyle
Submitted By CHARLENE DEERING   On   03-13-95

